DRN-2469887
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with how AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) dealt with a claim under his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C was involved in a road traffic accident with a third party in September 2019 and Mr C 
submitted a claim to AXA.
Both Mr C and the third party disputed liability. So, the evidence provided was sent to an 
independent arbitrator who deemed both parties to be equally responsible for the incident 
and advised on a 50/50 split liability outcome. The arbitrator said, On the balance of 
probabilities there is no hard evidence to suggest we should prefer either party over the 
other.
However, Mr C is adamant that the third party should be deemed fully at fault. He also stated 
that the handlers dealing with the claim in AXA were rude, aggressive and unwilling to listen 
to him. He said they talked over him and wouldnt let him speak. He says they had made up 
their minds and werent willing to assist him. 
So, Mr C referred the complaint to our service. An investigator looked at the complaint and 
advised that based on the evidence provided AXA had made a fair and reasonable decision 
settling the claim with split liability. The investigator also said the level of compensation paid 
by AXA to Mr C for the poor service it had provided was fair and reasonable.
But Mr C remains unhappy, and he has asked for an ombudsman to review this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr C doesnt agree with the decision AXA has made with regards to the liability of the 
accident. He says he was established on the road and the third party entered the road from 
a slip road to the left and drove into the back of his car. He says the third party was in a 
hurry and didnt take any photos at the scene. In fact, he nearly didnt even take Mr Cs 
contact details.  
However, the third party says that they were already established on that road, and that Mr C 
merged from the outer lane into the lane they were already established in. And in doing so 
Mr C had actually collided into them. So, they say Mr C is at fault. 
In relation to liability, and as the investigator explained, its not the role of this service to
decide which party was at fault for causing the accident, only a court of law can
do that. The insurance companies representing the parties can also agree between
themselves which party is more likely to be deemed at fault for causing the accident. Its only
when the insurers disagree on this  the matter goes to court. Its fairly rare insurers dont
agree, since they deal with such issues regularly as part of their daily business and are fully
aware of what a court is likely to decide in most circumstances.
In almost all motor insurance policies, theres a term, which allows the insurer to
takeover, defend or settle any claim against its policyholder as it thinks fit. And AXAs
policy is no different. It says, we may take over, defend or settle the claim. Further, when 
anyone buys a policy, they are agreeing to this term. My role and that of this service is 
merely to see if AXA applied this term to the claim circumstances fairly and reasonably. 
Mr C has provided a map of the road layout, photographs of the area, photographs of the 
damage, and a statement of events. The third-party insurer has provided a google map 
image of the road in question, and it says We have reviewed our clients statement and also 
the lane markings at the point of collision. As the 2 lanes merge in to one, you can clearly 
see the road marking which confirms the lane that your client is in, merges in to our lane. 
Therefore, your client must make sure it is completely safe to proceed before they make the 
change in to the single lane. Your customer has not observed these lane markings, or their 
surroundings and we therefore hold your client 100% at fault and will consider no offers. 
The third-party insurer hasnt provided any supporting evidence, such as the statement it 
mentions above to AXA from the third-party driver, even though I can see AXA asked for it.
All the evidence received was sent to an independent arbitrator. The arbitrator said, On the 
balance of probabilities there is no hard evidence to suggest we should prefer either party 
over the other. And based on this AXA decided that it wouldnt be able to prove at court that 
the accident wasnt at least partially Mr Cs fault. So, it settled the claim on a 50/50 split 
liability basis.
I understand that Mr C doesnt agree. I completely appreciate that hes told his side of the 
story and he wants AXA to believe and support him. But its not a case of AXA not 
supporting Mr C or not believing him. AXA has to make its decision based on the evidence 
provided, and in this particular scenario, both parties are telling two different stories. And 
even though Mr C has provided photographic evidence and has pointed to what he believes 
are inconsistencies in the third-partys story, the problem is there is no independent witness 
to support either version of events. And in a situation like this the most likely outcome will be 
50/50. 
I understand this is hard to take, and Mr C feels hes been wronged. But in a situation where 
both parties provide conflicting information, it makes it difficult to decide what actually did 
happen. Im surprised that AXA didnt go one step further and insist the third-party insurer 
provides either an accident report form or some sketches from the third party. And I can see 
that Mr C also requested this information from AXA. But Im also conscious that it did take 
adequate steps by passing this case to an independent arbitrator, and I think if the arbitrator 
felt it required this information, it wouldve insisted for it to be provided before it reached its 
conclusion. 
So, on the whole I dont think the position that AXA has taken was unreasonable or that AXA 
made an error. The arbitrator is of the opinion that theres no hard evidence to dispute either 
partys version of events. So, Im satisfied the decision to split liability equally is fair and 
reasonable and AXA doesnt have to do any more.
Mr C has also raised an issue about the arbitrator, and its appointment. Hes pointed to the 
terms and conditions of the policy under the heading of arbitration where it says, The 
arbitrator will be a solicitor, barrister or other suitably qualified person and will be chosen jointly between you or the named driver and us. He says as he wasnt consulted about this 
appointment and AXA has breached its own terms and conditions. 
Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions, and I can see this term is under the heading of 
Section K - legal assistance cover option. However, on review of the policy schedule I can 
see that Mr C hasnt opted to take legal expenses (section K) with his cover, so this term 
doesnt apply. And in that case Mr C doesnt need to be consulted about the appointment of 
an arbitrator.
Mr C has also complained about the way in which the investigation was conducted and the 
poor service he received from AXA. Ive reviewed all the notes on file, and Ive listened to the 
call recordings that have been provided to us. I agree that at times these calls become 
argumentative. The calls are long, and Mr C is trying desperately to tell his side of the story. 
Hes clearly unhappy with the engineers assessment of his vehicle, hes unhappy with 
liability, and he says that this whole scenario has been very stressful for him. Things do get 
heated and there is a lot of interruption and talking across each other. But I see that AXA 
has paid Mr C four separate amounts of compensation, totalling £625 for poor service. And 
looking at this complaint as a whole, Im satisfied that this amount of compensation is fair 
and reasonable for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Conclusion
I sympathise with Mr C, as hes clearly aggrieved by what happened and he clearly doesnt 
agree with the outcome. I wouldve liked for AXA to have conducted a better investigation 
and I think it shouldve insisted that the third-party provide further supporting evidence. 
However, Im conscious that this case did go to an arbitrator, who was satisfied with the 
evidence provided. And I can see that AXA has abided by the advice provided by the 
independent arbitrator. Also, looking at the service provided as a whole, Im satisfied that the 
£625 paid to Mr C in compensation reflects the poor investigation, along with the poor 
service Mr C received throughout the lifetime of this claim. So even though this claim has 
been handled poorly, I think Mr C has been adequately compensated and I think its more 
likely than not that a fair and reasonable decision was made in settling the claim on a split 
liability basis. And because of this I wont be asking AXA to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman