DRN-2530560
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy that a transfer was made between two of her accounts with Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) that she didnt authorise. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Halifax accept it made a mistake when it transferred £400 from Ms Cs saving 
account to her current account. 
The money moved between two of Ms Cs accounts  so Im not going to tell Halifax 
to pay her £400, because she never lost that money. 
Ive thought about how the transfer couldve affected Ms C in other ways. Before the 
transfer, Ms C was very close to her overdraft limit. This transfer meant shed money 
available  and money was spent a few days later on things like travel, water and 
council bills as well as debt repayment. So I dont think this put her in a worse 
position, as it looks like these needed to be paid. 
Ms C said the money was for her rent  but when weve asked, shes not given us 
any more information about how it affected her rent and whether it meant she 
couldnt pay it. 
So based on the evidence, Im not persuaded the transfer put Ms C in a worse 
position. I also think that, given Ms C used the account regularly and suddenly had 
money to spend that wasnt available before, this is something she couldve 
questioned sooner. 
Of course, Ms C shouldnt have been in the position of having to sort out Halifaxs 
mistake. So I think the £75 compensation Halifax paid is a fair reflection of the 
distress and inconvenience she experienced in dealing with this. 
Overall, I dont think Halifax need to do anything more to put things right here. 
Looking at the complaint, it seems Ms C is generally struggling financially  thats 
something she can speak with Halifax about to see where it can support her. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman