DRN-4216549
The complaint
Ms O complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds (RSA) decision to decline 
her claim under her home emergency insurance. 
What happened
Ms O says her heating and hot water stopped working so she called RSA to claim under her 
policy. Ms O says RSA said this wasnt covered as her boiler is still under warranty. Ms O 
complained as she felt it was unfair shed been paying for a policy which then didnt cover 
her in an emergency. She also felt it was unreasonable for RSA to assume it was a problem 
with the boiler without actually sending an engineer out to investigate the problem. Ms O 
asked RSA to refund the premiums shed paid. RSA responded and explained, based on  
Ms O reporting there to have been a complete loss of heating and hot water, this is always 
due to the boiler. They explained, as Ms Os boiler is still under warranty, they relied on the 
policy terms and conditions to refer her to the manufacturer. 
Our investigator looked into things for Ms O. He thought RSA hadnt acted unfairly in 
declining the claim on the basis of the policy terms and conditions. Ms O disagreed so the 
matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Ms O will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Ms Os home emergency insurance policy booklet. This sets out the 
terms and conditions and, under a section headed General Exclusions it says, We do not 
cover any parts which are covered by another insurance policy or manufacturers warranty. 
We will direct you to the installer or manufacturer for a solution in the first instance to prevent 
voiding of any guarantee/warranty. So, I dont think its unreasonable for RSA to rely on the 
policy terms and conditions to decline a claim where theyre of the opinion it relates to a part 
which is already covered through another policy or warranty.   
In this case, theres no dispute that Ms Os boiler was still under warranty. So, I dont think 
its unfair for RSA to decline the claim where theyre satisfied the issue relates to the boiler. 
But I can see Ms O is concerned that RSA have determined the issue relates to the boiler 
without sending an engineer to investigate the fault. 
So, Ms O questions what shes paying for when, in the event of a breakdown, RSA refuse to 
come out to investigate the issue. Ms O feels the issue may just be a blockage or an air 
bubble, so RSA should at least come out to assess the issue and try to fix the problem. And 
if it does turn out to be a problem which requires parts then they can refer her to the boiler 
manufacturer. 
I do acknowledge Ms Os points and I understand why this has led her to question what 
benefit shes getting from a policy where the insurer doesnt appoint an engineer to 
investigate a problem in the event of a breakdown. I think its important here to make clear 
our service doesnt have the power to direct a business to change their processes. RSA say, 
based on Ms Os description of the problem, it was their claims teams professional opinion 
that this is always due to the boiler and no other associated areas such as the radiators or 
thermostat. It appears RSA have carried out a desk-based assessment here. This appears 
to be RSAs process, so the first point I would make is that we cant direct RSA to change 
this process. 
That said, I have still gone on to consider whether Ms O has been treated fairly in RSA 
adopting this process to deal with her claim. The policy terms and conditions set out the 
claims process, and the first stage of this involves a customer contacting the Claims Helpline 
Service. Under a section headed Important Information it says, If we accept your claim, the 
Claims Helpline Service will source a suitable engineer to attend your home and endeavour 
to resolve the issue. This suggests the claims team carry out an initial assessment to 
determine whether a customers call relates to a claim which can be accepted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. And thats what has happened here. The claims team will 
source an engineer but only if the claim is first accepted. 
I acknowledge Ms Os point that the issue could relate to something other than the boiler, but 
RSA say the claims team have applied their judgement based on the information provided by 
Ms O. I think its also important here to refer back to the term within the general exclusions 
as this says RSA will refer a customer back to the manufacturer for a solution in the first 
instance to prevent voiding of any guarantee/warranty So I understand why RSA will be 
cautious about carrying out any investigation into a boiler given the consequences of voiding 
a customers warranty  and thats why they referred Ms O to her warranty cover in the first 
instance. I would also make the point that I havent seen any evidence that the issue didnt 
relate to the boiler. 
I understand Ms O questions what shes actually paying for if, during the time her boiler is 
under warranty, RSA wont visit her home to investigate a boiler issue. I acknowledge why 
Ms O is concerned by this, but I cant say the policy has no benefit for Ms O. The policy 
booklet sets out a range of home emergency events which Ms O is covered for, and while 
this does include a domestic boiler, it also includes cover for plumbing and drainage, internal 
electricity and gas supply. I acknowledge Ms O may not have had cause to claim for these 
areas of cover, but the policy does provide cover for these.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman