DRN-3087225
The complaint
Mr S says esure Insurance Limited treated him unfairly when they declined a claim against 
his buildings insurance. 
Mr S wants the claim to be met. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is well-known to all parties. So, rather than repeat in detail 
what happened, Ill summarise my understanding and focus on what I consider to be 
materially relevant to the complaint. 
Building works started next to Mr Ss home at a neighbouring property in 2018. 
In 2018, Mr S raised a claim which was categorised as accidental damage. He said 
vibrations from neighbouring works had damaged his property. He also said the contractors 
had accepted liability for the damage. 
esure accepted the claim and decided to cash settle it. But Mr S didnt think the amount 
offered was fair. Later, esure instructed a different surveyor who reported further damage 
was present, so esure then instructed another surveyor. 
That surveyor didnt think the claim should be met, as they didnt think damage had been 
caused by the neighbouring works. Rather, it was due to historical issues, wear and tear, 
and poor workmanship. 
esure changed the claim decision and declined it. They did, however, pay Mr S £500 
compensation for the way they handled things, and to recognise his loss of expectation. 
Mr S wasnt happy with the claim decision being changed and said esure took far too long to 
progress it. He said the issues werent present prior to the building works starting, and his 
home valuation report he got when purchasing the property demonstrates this. He also said 
hed recently had renovation works completed. 
Mr S also said the latest report (third) carried out by an independent surveyor wasnt fairly 
considered. The surveyor reported on the damage to Mr Ss property, along with other 
neighbouring properties who also made separate claims for damage due to the neighbouring 
works. And his local MP had been involved. 
esure accepted they didnt handle things well but had made a fair decision on the claim 
following the surveyors report. As Mr S remained unhappy, he approached our service. 
An investigator here considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He was 
more persuaded that damage was caused by historical issues, wear and tear, and poor 
workmanship  rather than the neighbouring works. 
He considered all the reports available but was more persuaded by the report esure relied 
on to decline the claim as the other reports said the cause of damage was difficult to 
determine. He also considered the level of service Mr S received and felt £500 
compensation was fair. 
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide. So, the case has been passed to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by explaining I understand why Mr S feels let down by esure. The claim was 
initially accepted, and Ive no doubt when this decision was changed, it would have caused 
him to experience a level of distress, inconvenience and a loss of expectation. He also said 
esure took far too long when handling the claim which I appreciate. Ill return to this aspect of 
the complaint later in my decision. 
esure said they instructed another surveyor as further validation checks were required after 
the claim had been accepted. Also, once they had communicated they were holding the 
building company liable for the damage, this was disputed. They also said there were 
concerns over Mr Ss schedule of works which included damage that wasnt related to the 
claim. 
Overall, I think it was fair for esure to instruct another surveyor given further validation 
checks were required, as other damage had been found, amongst other things. 
Reports were carried out during the claim process. And esure relied on the report dated 8 
July 2019 to decline the claim  having initially accepted it. They said this report provided 
clarity on the likelihood of how damage occurred, compared to the other two reports which 
didnt conclude damage had been caused by vibrations from neighbouring works. These 
also said some damage presented may not be claim-related, and difficult to determine as no 
prior record of Mr Ss home was recorded before the neighbouring works started. 
Ive considered the reports available to me. And before I turn to the 8 July 2019 report esure 
relied on to decline the claim, Ive extracted comments made within the other two reports, 
which say: 
3.1 Damage to properties 
3.1.2 As there was no record of the condition of the properties prior to the work being 
completed it is difficult to determine if these issues are specifically related to the 
work, possibly present prior to the commencement or whether the work exacerbated 
existing defects resulting in the failure in some cases. 
And: 
Based on our inspection we feel the appropriate course of action due to the rising 
claim costs would be to involve a building surveyor to assess the damage. We are 
not able to confirm the cause of the damage to various areas of the property. There 
may be some areas of damage that are not related to the AD. 
esure said these reports didnt provide clarity on the most likely cause of damage. Based on 
the extracts above, I accept why. Both reports say there are several possibilities as to how the damage occurred but were unable to say damage was caused by an insured peril  in 
this case, the vibrations from neighbouring works. 
Ill now go on to consider the 8 July 2019 report esure relied on to decline the claim. This in 
my view does address the damage presented by Mr S in turn. It outlines the damage 
presented and provides an expert view on the most likely cause in each part of the property. 
The report concludes that most of the damage pointed out by Mr S can be explained by 
historic issues, thermal/differential movement, and building defects rather than the action of 
vibration. 
Having considered all the reports, I dont find esure acted unreasonably when relying on the 
report dated 8 July 2019 to decline the claim. I say this because I think it provides plausible 
explanations as to how the damage most likely occurred. 
I know Mr S thinks our investigator should have placed more weight on the latest report 
carried out. He said the latest surveyor was independent to all parties, and the report esure 
relied on wasnt carried out by someone independent. But I havent seen anything to 
persuade me the findings within the 8 July 2019 report are unfair, unreasonable or show any 
degree of bias. Rather, on balance, I think the report dated 8 July 2019 is the most 
compelling report given the reasons Ive set out above. 
Therefore, based on all the information available to me, Im satisfied esure acted fairly by 
relying on the expert report dated 8 July 2019 to decline the claim. The report says historic 
issues, wear and tear, and poor workmanship are the most likely cause of damage, which 
arent something that are covered by the policy. 
Mr S said homeowners of neighbouring properties also raised a claim regarding the issues 
he described, which were accepted. So, I understand why he feels his claim should also be 
met. But my role is limited to only considering whether esure treated him fairly in respect of 
the claim decision, which I think they did. So, I wont be directing esure to do anything 
differently or commenting on a decision made by insurers on other claims. 
Returning to the impact the way things were handled had on Mr S. Ive absolutely no doubt 
the claim decision changing would have caused him to experience a level of distress, 
inconvenience and a loss of expectation. Things should have been handled much better and 
I do think esure let Mr S down at times. 
But to give some balance to this dispute, Ive seen esure recognised this and addressed the 
handling of the claim within their final response. And, in an attempt to put matters right, they 
paid Mr S £500 compensation. I think this was the right thing to do in the circumstances  
particularly as Mr S had been offered a cash settlement for the claim that was later declined. 
Overall, considering the way things were handled, the impact this had on Mr S and how 
esure attempted to put things right, I find that £500 compensation is fair, reasonable and 
proportionate in these circumstances. I think this fairly recognises the impact both the 
handling of the claim and loss of expectation had on Mr S. So, I wont be directing esure to 
increase this. 
I appreciate Mr Ss main concern here is he thinks the claim should be accepted. He said the 
damage wasnt present prior to the neighbouring works and has a home valuation report 
from when he purchased the property in 2017 to demonstrate this. But, esure are entitled to 
rely on the opinion of experts to assess a claim, and for the reasons set out above, Im 
satisfied they acted fairly. I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr S. But my decision ends what we  
in attempting to resolve his dispute with esure  can do for him. 
My final decision
I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman