DRN-2722412
The complaint
Mr C complains that Metro Bank PLC insulted him, and failed to provide him with a bank 
statement it had promised him.
What happened
Mr C and Metro Bank settled a complaint about another matter by agreeing that the bank 
would pay Mr C £100. This money was paid from the banks suspense account in early 
March 2021, and it appeared on his statement with the payment reference Metro Bank 
Suspense. Not knowing that this was a reference to a suspense account, Mr C interpreted 
the word suspense to be a derogatory term, and he inferred that the bank was mocking his 
mental health condition. He complained to our Service, and we raised the matter with the 
bank.
Metro Bank explained that there was nothing untoward about the word suspense, and said 
that this was only a reference to the fact that the money had been paid from its suspense 
account. It emphasised that this is normal banking terminology. Nevertheless, it apologised 
to Mr C in writing. Our investigator accepted the banks explanation, and told Mr C. Mr C was 
not satisfied, and he asked for another £100.
Mr C also complains that he had not received a bank statement he had asked for, which he 
had expected to show that he had received an interest payment of £36.35. Our investigator 
obtained it from the bank and sent it to Mr C again. Mr C said he could not see the relevant 
payment, and he suggested that the investigator had perhaps sent him the wrong statement. 
The investigator insisted that it was the correct one, and described the relevant entry in 
detail to help him find it.
Since this complaint remains unresolved, it has been referred to me for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can assure Mr C that Metro Banks explanation of the payment reference is true and 
accurate. The term suspense account is a term I have seen used many times by many 
different banks, and so I am satisfied that Metro Bank meant no harm by it. I have read their 
apology letter and it seems to be sincere and truthful. So I do not require it to do anything 
else. I do not think that there has been any error by the bank, and so I do not uphold Mr Cs 
complaint about this issue.
I have seen the statement which our investigator said, and it is the correct one. It does show 
the interest payment Mr C was asking about, and shows it clearly. I hope that the 
investigators description helped him to find it, because I cannot possibly improve on it.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021. But there is no need for him to reply.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman