DRN-4416697
The complaint
Mrs J has complained that MBNA Limited unfairly turned down her claim made about 
something bought using her credit card.
What happened
In 2011, Mrs J, alongside her husband, purchased holiday club membership from a business 
Ill call Business D. This cost £5,000 and was paid by Mrs J using her MBNA credit card.1 
But this credit card payment wasnt made directly to Business D, rather it went to a different 
business Ill call Business F.
In 2017, using a professional representative (PR), Mrs J made a claim to MBNA under s.75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). In short, Mrs J said Business D made 
misrepresentations at the time of the sale that, under s.75 CCA, MBNA was jointly 
responsible to answer.
MBNA responded, but didnt think there were the right sort of arrangements in place for 
Mrs J to make a claim under s.75 CCA. But Mrs J didnt agree, so referred a complaint to our 
service that MBNA hadnt properly considered her claim. Alongside that, PR provided an 
opinion from counsel that explained why it thought there were the right sorts of 
arrangements in place.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt think MBNA needed to do 
anything further. He thought that there were the right sort of arrangements in place to make 
a claim, but that there wasnt enough to say there had been a misrepresentation as alleged. 
So he concluded that MBNA didnt need to do anything more to resolve the complaint.
PR said that Mrs J didnt agree with the view and asked for the matter to be looked at again 
by an ombudsman. It supplied submissions from counsel titled Generic submissions on 
behalf of complainants, in which it was argued that problems with the Business D 
membership could lead to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under s.140A CCA.
The complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision, explaining that I didnt 
think Mrs Js complaint should be upheld, but for different reasons to our investigator. 
I explained that when deciding a complaint, Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the FCA  
Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good industry 
1 Although the membership was taken out in the names of Mr and Mrs J, as the card used was 
Mrs Js, only she is eligible to make this complaint
practice at the relevant time.
PR brought a claim on Mrs Js behalf under s.75 CCA. I thought it was helpful to set out the 
relevant legal provisions.
s.75(1) CCA states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor
s.12(b) CCA states that a debtor-creditor-supplier (D-C-S) agreement is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement being:
a restricted-use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made by 
the creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future 
arrangements, between himself and the supplier
An agreement is a s.11(1)(b) restricted-use credit agreement if it is a regulated CCA 
agreement used to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier) 
other than the creditor.
s.140A CCA states:
(1)The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following 
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement; 
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall 
have regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
and matters relating to the debtor).
(3) For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not done) 
by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.
Section 140C CCA says that the reference in s.140A CCA to a related agreement includes 
a linked transaction in relation to the main agreement, which is defined in s.19 CCA as: 
(1) A transaction entered into by the debtor or hirer, or a relative of his, with another 
person (the other party), except one for the provision of security, is a linked 
transaction in relation to an actual or prospective regulated agreement (the principal 
agreement) of which it does not form part if -

(b) the principal agreement is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement and the transaction is financed, or to be financed, by the principal agreement
I thought that the upshot of this was that there needs to be a D-C-S agreement in place for 
the lender (here MBNA) to be liable to the borrower (here Mrs J) for the misrepresentations 
or breaches of contract of the supplier (here Business D). But, on the face of it, there were 
no such arrangements in place at the relevant times as Business D wasnt paid directly using 
the credit card, rather the payments were taken by Business F.
There are ways in which there can be a D-C-S agreement in place, even if the supplier isnt 
paid directly using a credit card. But since our investigator issued his view, the law in this 
area had been clarified by the judgment in Steiner v. National Westminster Bank plc [2022] 
EWHC 2519 (KB) (Steiner).2 Steiner considered whether there was a D-C-S agreement in 
circumstances where Business F took payment on a credit card in relation to the purchase of 
timeshare membership from a business called C. The court considered the arrangements 
between the parties and concluded that, as the payment to C was made outside of the credit 
card network, in that instance there wasnt a D-C-S agreement in place.
I thought that the circumstances of Mrs Js case are very similar. Here, the same business 
(Business F) took payment for Mrs Js purchase of Business D holiday club memberships. 
So, based on the judgment in Steiner, I thought a court would come to a similar conclusion 
and say that there was no D-C-S agreement in place and, in turn, no valid s.75 CCA claim.
In response to the investigators view, PR sent submissions alleging that there might be an 
unfair debtor-creditor relationship between Mrs J and MBNA arising out of the purchases. 
This was not something ever put to MBNA before, so it hadnt had the chance to consider it. 
However, I thought it was fair in the circumstances of Mrs Js case to go on to look at that 
claim and I didnt think MBNA was prejudiced by me doing so.3 I said that as I can only 
consider how the agreements between Mrs J and Business D affected the fairness of the 
debtor-creditor relationship if there was a valid D-C-S agreement in place. And, as already 
explained, I didnt think such an arrangement was in place, nor had Mrs J suggested there 
was an unfair relationship for any other reason.
Under the rules set out above, I must take into account the law, but come to my own 
determination of what is fair and reasonable in any given complaint. Here, I didnt think it 
would be fair to make MBNA responsible for Business Ds alleged failures when the law 
doesnt impose such a liability  I couldnt see that MBNA and Business D were connected in 
any way nor was there any other reason to say MBNA should be responsible for Business 
Ds alleged failings.
It followed that I didnt think MBNA needed to answer the claims made.
MBNA responded to say it had nothing further to add to my provisional decision.
PR didnt respond on Mrs Js behalf.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive not been asked to consider anything further, I see no reason to depart from my 
2 This judgment was handed down after PR had supplied counsels opinion along with the complaint
submitted to our service, so this judgment wasnt referred to in that opinion
3 I invited MBNA to say if it disagreed with me considering this part of the complaint, but it didnt 
disagreeprovisional findings. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint against MBNA Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman