DRN-3041159
The complaint
Ms S complaint relates to the repossession of her property by Bank of Scotland plc. In a 
decision about our jurisdiction in August 2021 I said the complaint points wed be 
considering are that Ms S says:
The marketing price of the property was too low.
She didnt give her authority for the valuations to be carried out and she would like 
another valuation done in her presence.
She wants the rental income that was received from her tenants to be passed to her, 
and she wants the property to be handed back.
Her possessions were taken from the property.
That Bank of Scotland is corrupt and her property was destroyed when it was taken 
into possession.
That the mortgage account number had been changed.
The electricity and water were turned off to the property once it was taken into 
possession.
What happened
In October 2019 a court gave possession of the property to Bank of Scotland. The court 
ordered that Ms S give possession of the property to Bank of Scotland within 28 days, and 
that Ms S pay the lender around £420,000 by the same date.
Ms S complained to Bank of Scotland about various aspects surrounding the repossession, 
and then referred that complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ss complaint. As Ms S didnt agree it was passed to me to 
decide. I issued a decision in August 2021 where I said we wouldnt consider all the 
complaint as matters had been to court, and we had no power to interfere with a court order. 
I set out the points we would consider, as explained above, and asked both sides to let me 
have any final comments they wanted to make by 6 September 2021. I specifically asked 
Ms S to provide some information about some of the points.
Despite that deadline passing, nothing further has been received and so Im issuing this 
decision as the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I trust Ms S wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed this complaint in the way that I 
have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant. 
The marketing price of the property was too low.
The valuations that were carried out on the property were by members of the Royal 
Institution of Chartered Surveyors. 
As I explained in my decision about our jurisdiction we cant look at any complaint about the 
valuation when the property was taken into possession and marketed for sale. This is 
because the company that carried out the valuation isnt a business thats covered by our 
service. That means I dont have the legal power to look at complaints against it.
I do appreciate that because Bank of Scotland instructed the surveyor to undertake the 
valuation, Ms S may consider that it should be responsible for it. However, the only 
obligation required of Bank of Scotland was to instruct a suitably qualified surveying firm to 
carry out the valuation  a requirement that it fulfilled by appointing a member firm of the 
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. In doing so, Bank of Scotland didnt at the same 
time assume responsibility for any errors or omissions by the surveyor.
For that reason, Im unable to consider any complaint about the actual valuations given.
Bank of Scotland received two valuation figures which were £600,000 and £550,000. The 
figures were different as the higher was the full market value, and the lower was the amount 
it was thought could be achieved for a rushed sale.
Bank of Scotland put the property on the market for £650,000 but there were no viewings for 
quite some time, and then the people that did view it had concerns about a legal issue to do 
with a breach of the propertys Graded listing.
After about four months, with no interest in the property, the price was reduced to £600,000, 
and then again to £580,000 a couple of months after that.
I understand the property finally received a cash offer of £551,000 that was accepted, albeit 
there were then some legal issues that Bank of Scotlands solicitor was trying to overcome. I 
dont know if a sale has completed, but I dont need to know that to fairly decide this 
complaint
Im satisfied that Bank of Scotland acted reasonably in the marketing of the property and by 
trying to sell the property to the highest bidder. Whilst I can understand why Ms S is 
disappointed at the marketing prices, the property is only worth what someone else is 
prepared to pay for it. 
For the reasons given I dont uphold this part of Ms S complaint.She didnt give her authority for the valuations to be carried out and she would like another 
valuation done in her presence.
Ms S said she didnt give her authority for the valuations to be carried out, but Bank of 
Scotland didnt need her authority. Once it had taken possession, following the court order 
that allowed it to do so, Bank of Scotland had control of the property and therefore could 
make decisions about it without consulting Ms S. 
It wouldnt make sense for a lender to have to get authority from the borrower in these 
circumstances, as otherwise the borrower could simply refuse to give authority which would 
then mean the lender was impeded in its lawful right to sell the property in possession.
Bank of Scotland also had no need to arrange for another valuation to be undertaken in the 
presence of Ms S. Ms S lost her rights over the property when it was taken into possession, 
and Bank of Scotland simply didnt have to do what Ms S wanted it to.
I dont uphold this part of Ms S complaint.
She wants the rental income that was received from her tenants to be passed to her,
and she wants the property to be handed back.
The terms and conditions of Ms S mortgage said:
15. Acting as attorney for you
15.1 By way of security, you appoint us, and (as a separate appointment) any receiver we 
appoint, to be your attorney. You cannot cancel this appointment until the money 
secured by the mortgage is paid off in full. Your attorney will be authorised to act in 
your name and on your behalf and will have the following rights:
(a) To receive any money due to you to do with:
 the property
And:
16. When the debt has to be repaid immediately
If any of the things mentioned in this condition happen, you must pay us the debt 
immediately.
16.1 If you do not pay any two monthly payments (they do not have to be consecutive), 
except where the flexible options apply to your mortgage and give you the right 
not to pay them.
And;
17. Our right to take possession of the property
17.1 If you must pay off the debt immediately under condition 16, or if (where the property 
is in Scotland), you have failed to comply with the terms of a notice of default under 
the Conveyancing and Feudal Reform (Scotland) Act 1970 as amended, we may:
(a) make you leave the property (if you have not already done so) so that we can take 
possession of it;(b) sell the property; 
(c) use the other powers given to mortgage lenders under the Law of Property Act 1925 
(if the property is in England or Wales), the Conveyancing and Feudal Reform 
(Scotland) Act 1970 as amended (if the property is in Scotland) or the Conveyancing 
Acts 1881 and 1911 (if the property is in Northern Ireland);
(d) use the extra powers we have under these conditions;
(e) let the property on any reasonable terms;
And;
18. Our right to appoint a receiver
Except where the property is in Scotland, if you must pay off the debt immediately under
condition 16, we may appoint a receiver and agree his remuneration at any reasonable 
level. As well as the powers a receiver has by statute, he will have power to:
(a) make whatever arrangements with any existing or former tenant or occupier of the 
property or part of it he thinks fit;
(b) take any action or proceedings to terminate or obtain the surrender of any tenancy or 
to recover possession of the property (or any part of it);
(c) enforce any obligation owed to you by any existing or former tenant or occupier and 
create a new tenancy or tenancies of the property (or any part of it) as he thinks fit;
(d) do all or any of the things which we may do under condition 17 (except that he may 
not himself exercise the statutory power to appoint a receiver);
(e) choose whether or not to use any money he receives to pay off interest before 
capital; and
(f) employ and pay agents to carry out work on his behalf.
And;
20. How we use the money received by us
20.1 If we receive any money when we use any of our powers under conditions 15 or 17, 
we will use the money in the following order:
(a) To pay off any unpaid interest.
(b) To reduce or pay off the rest of the debt (except for the expenses mentioned below 
in this condition).
(c) To pay all expenses of using our powers
Based on this:
Bank of Scotland was allowed to take possession of Ms S property (and in fact a 
court has already agreed on this point when it granted possession).It was allowed to appoint a Receiver to collect rent from the tenants of the property.
That rent could be paid directly to the mortgage account, rather than to Ms S.
There are no grounds for me to find that Bank of Scotland acted inappropriately here and 
that the rental income should be passed to Ms S, or that the property should be handed back 
to her. For that reason I dont uphold this part of Ms S complaint.
Her possessions were taken from the property.
In my decision about our jurisdiction I said:
In her response to this decision Ms S will need to provide a full explanation of this point, 
and evidence to support her allegations because, as our investigator explained, theres 
nothing to substantiate this claim.
As Ms S didnt respond Ive just based my findings on what we have.
The terms and conditions of the mortgage said:
19. Things left in the property
If we take possession of the property, we may, as your agent, remove, store, sell or
dispose of anything you leave at the property (including animals). You will have to pay 
our expenses of doing this.
Ms S hasnt provided any evidence to support her statement that items had been stolen from 
the property, and theres nothing on file to indicate this was the case. For that reason, I cant 
uphold this part of her complaint.
That Bank of Scotland is corrupt and her property was destroyed when it was taken into 
possession.
In my decision about our jurisdiction I said:
In her response to this decision Ms S will need to provide a full explanation of this point, 
and evidence to support her allegations because, as our investigator explained, theres 
nothing to substantiate this claim.
Ms S didnt respond so Ive no more information about this point.
Ms S hasnt provided any evidence to support her statements about corruption and her 
property being destroyed, and theres nothing on file to indicate either of these were the 
case. 
Bank of Scotland took legal action because the mortgage was in substantial arrears, and a 
court granted it possession of the property. Prior to that action Bank of Scotland attempted to 
work with Ms S to try to avoid repossession. Even after it had taken possession Bank of 
Scotland said it would hand the property back if Ms S repaid the mortgage debt. 
Having considered everything I cant uphold this part of her complaint.That the mortgage account number had been changed.
In my decision about our jurisdiction I said:
In her response to this decision Ms S will need to provide a full explanation of this point, 
and evidence of how this impacted things as the account number changed in 2013 and 
Ms S paid her mortgage until 2016 so it doesnt seem to be relevant here.
Ms S didnt respond so Ive no more information about this point.
Ms S hasnt explained why the mortgage account number changing in 2013 (as it did for all 
Bank of Scotlands customers) has any relevance to this complaint, and I cant see why it 
would have had any impact as she paid her mortgage until 2016. For that reason, I cant 
uphold this part of her complaint.
The electricity and water were turned off to the property once it was taken into possession.
In my decision about our jurisdiction I said:
In her response to this decision Ms S will need to provide a full explanation of this point as 
the property is in the lenders possession and should be empty therefore the lack of power 
and water is irrelevant. Ms S seems to be saying in her submissions that shes moved back 
into the property, but I cant take that into account here as under the court order she has no 
right of residency as possession was handed to Bank of Scotland.
Ms S didnt respond so Ive no more information about this point.
It is entirely normal for the utilities to be turned off when a property is taken into possession, 
and as the property should be empty that wouldnt cause a problem. As I said, I cant take 
into account any discomfort on Ms S part if she has moved back into the property without 
any legal right to do so. For this reason I cant uphold this part of Ms S complaint.
Summary
Whilst it is clear Ms S has been through a very difficult time, I can only consider this 
complaint with regards to the acts (or omissions) of Bank of Scotland. I cant take into 
account the extensive background shes described, or her concerns about corruption within 
 or her issues with - other parties such as the police, a group that stopped her selling her 
previous property, the management company of the property, or other banks.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms S to accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman