DRN-4230108
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt provide her with a reasonable level 
of service when she asked for her credit file to be updated more quickly than the standard 
two to three months.
What happened
Mrs H contacted Nationwide in January 2023 to ask that her personal loan show as settled 
on her credit file. She was told that it could take two to three months and she asked that 
Nationwide contact the credit reference agencies to speed this up and explained her reasons 
for needing this. Mrs H says that Nationwide refused to carry out her request or give her an 
adequate reason for its refusal. Mrs H says that this meant she was delayed in having a 
mortgage put in her name and was caused a great deal of upset and distress. She also says 
she had to contact Nationwide on several occasions as it didnt return calls as it said it 
would. 
Nationwide issued a final response to Mrs Hs complaint in February 2023. It said that when 
a loan is paid off it takes two to three months for this to fully close on its system and for this 
to be shown in a customers credit file. Nationwide checked with its personal loan 
administration team to see if an exception could be made but this wasnt possible. It noted 
Mrs Hs circumstances and said that the mortgage provider should accept the closure letter it 
sent on 25 January 2023 as proof the loan had been paid off. Nationwide noted that its 
adviser had said they would call Mrs H back to update her and this didnt appear to have 
happened. It apologised for this and offered to pay her £30.
Mrs H wasnt satisfied with the response from Nationwide and referred her complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that Nationwide had said it couldnt 
request an earlier update to Mrs Hs credit file and it had provided her with a closure letter 
which it said could be used as evidence the loan was settled. She noted that Nationwide 
didnt call Mrs H when it said it would but thought the apology and £75 compensation was a 
reasonable resolution to this part of Mrs Hs complaint. 
Mrs H didnt agree with our investigators view. She said she was a vulnerable customer and 
that her request was reasonable and she was paid £30 as a gesture of goodwill not £75 and 
this was for the call back not happening. She said she was unable to proceed with a change 
of parties on her mortgage because the loan was still showing as active on her credit file 
weeks after she had settled it. She said that the fact she was a vulnerable customer wasnt 
considered and that Nationwides refusal to make an exception for her was wrong. 
Our investigator confirmed with Nationwide that the amount paid to Mrs H was £30. 
Nationwide said that it was aware that Mrs H was going through a divorce and wanted to 
transfer her mortgage from joint names into her sole name and that she needed the loan 
cleared for this to happen. It said there was no mention of Mrs H being vulnerable but that 
even if there had it wouldnt have changed the outcome as it took time for a credit file to be 
updated. 
As a resolution hasnt been agreed, this complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman 
to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mrs H feels that Nationwide didnt do enough to help her when she 
asked for her credit file to be updated more quickly than usual and I am sorry to hear of the 
stressful circumstances she was experiencing at that time. But for me to uphold this 
complaint, I would need to be satisfied that Nationwide had done something wrong or treated 
Mrs H unfairly.
Mrs H called Nationwide on 24 January to say that she had settled her personal loan a 
month earlier, but it was still showing as active on her credit file. She explained that she was 
going through a divorce and needed the loan to be shown as settled so her husband could 
be taken off the mortgage. I can understand why this was important to Mrs H as she says 
that without this, she might not be able to keep her home. 
I understand that Mrs H thought her request could be actioned, and why she was 
disappointed that Nationwide wouldnt make an exceptional request in her case. We asked 
Nationwide for further details in regard to its contact with the credit reference agencies and it 
has explained that while it believed it could manually update a credit file to show the account 
as settled, if the account was in the monthly file that had been sent to the credit reference 
agencies there was a potential for this to cause an error with the reporting. It said because of 
this potential error it didnt have an exception process in place. Based on this, I do not find I 
can say that Nationwide did anything wrong by telling Mrs H that it couldnt update her credit 
file any quicker than the usual timescales or that it treated Mrs H unfairly because of this.
Nationwide did try to assist Mrs H as it sent her a closure letter for the loan and a full 
statement. These documents could be used by Mrs H to confirm that her personal loan had 
been settled. So, while Nationwide wasnt able to carry out Mrs Hs request for an urgent 
credit file update, I do find that it took the actions it could to help her.
Mrs H said on the call on 24 January that while her loan was still showing as active it had a 
zero balance. Information provided by Nationwide shows that Mrs Hs credit file was updated 
to show the loan as settled in February 2023 which was within the original timescales Mrs H 
had been told, and shortly after Mrs Hs call.  
I understand that Mrs H doesnt feel that her vulnerability was taken into account. Having 
listened to the call she explains her situation and that not being able to take her husband off 
the mortgage could lead to her and her child becoming homeless. I agree this shows she 
was in a vulnerable situation. However, in this case Nationwide took the actions it could to 
assist Mrs H and informed her of the timescales for her credit file being updated. It has 
explained that this approach wouldnt have been different even if her vulnerability had been 
flagged. So I do not find the issue of Mrs Hs vulnerability changes the outcome.
Mrs H was promised a call back on the call on 24 January and this didnt happen. Because 
of this Nationwide apologised and paid her £30 compensation. I find this a reasonable 
resolution. 
Overall, I understand why Mrs H is upset as she feels Nationwide didnt provide the support 
she needed. But in this case, I do not find that I can say Nationwide did anything wrong or 
treated Mrs H unfairly. It tried to support her with additional statements to show the loan had been repaid and her credit file was updated within the usual timeframe and the month 
following Mrs Hs call. Because of this I do not uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman