DRN-3691180
The complaint
Mr P complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In June 2020, Mr P acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mr P was required to make 59 monthly repayments of around £212. The total 
repayable under the agreement was around £12,493.
Mr P says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a full credit check, verifying Mr Ps 
income through his payslips and using statistical data to assess his expenses. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Moneybarn didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr P didnt agree. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, I think Moneybarn gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Mr P about his income. I say this because it verified his income using 
payslips. The payslips showed Mr Ps monthly income and I think the amount of £1,522 that 
Moneybarn included in its assessment was reasonable.
Moneybarn carried out a credit check. It hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it 
completed. Ive therefore relied on a copy of the credit file supplied by Mr P. I think this gives 
a good indication of what Moneybarn would likely have seen. This shows that Mr P had 
experienced previous financial difficulties with historic defaults recorded. At the time of the 
application there were no county court judgements or recent defaults however one of his 
utility accounts was in arrears which I think should have raised concerns that Mr P may be 
struggling financially. It therefore would have been proportionate for Moneybarn to have got 
a more thorough understanding of Mr Ps financial circumstances before lending.
Moneybarn has explained it calculated Mr Ps expenditure using statistical data. But as 
Mr Ps credit file showed that he may be struggling financially, I think it would have been 
reasonable and proportionate to have understood Mr Ps specific financial circumstances, 
rather than relying on an estimate.  
I cant be certain what Mr P would have told Moneybarn had it asked about his regular 
expenditure. I dont think Moneybarn needed to request bank statements, but in the absence 
of anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in Mr Ps 
statements as an indication of what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements prior to the application. These show that 
Mr P had limited regular committed monthly expenditure at the time. Considering his costs 
for items such as food, fuel, other living expenses and credit commitments, I do not find I can 
say the numbers used in Moneybarns assessment were unreasonable. Taking these figures 
into account, it appears to show the agreement was affordable to Mr P. For this reason, Im 
not persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman