DRN-3319866
The complaint
Mr P complains Brightside Insurance Services Limited trading as One Insurance Solution
(Brightside) mis-sold him three buildings insurance policies.
What happened
Mr P took out three buildings insurance policies through Brightside over three unoccupied
properties he was renovating.
Mr P says he made it clear in phone calls to Brightside when he bought the policies he
wanted cover for loss or damage to the properties due to arson. And he says Brightside told
him his properties had the benefit of this cover.
But a year later, when the policies came up for renewal, Brightside told Mr P his properties
hadnt been covered for loss or damage due to arson.
Mr P hasnt had a fire of any kind at any of his insured properties, so he hasnt had to make
a claim. But he says loss or damage due to arson was the main risk hed wanted covered.
And since Brightside has now told him his properties werent covered, he says the original
policies were mis-sold and he wants his premiums refunded.
When Mr P complained to Brightside about this, it offered him £50 in compensation for the
distress and inconvenience its delays in dealing with his complaint had caused him. But
Brightside said it hadnt made any errors in arranging Mr Ps insurance. It said Mr P hadnt
had any financial loss, hed got the level of cover hed chosen and paid for and wasnt due a
refund.
Mr P then brought his complaint to us. The investigator who looked at it didnt think
Brightside needed to do anything more. He thought it was fair and reasonable of Brightside
to pay Mr P £50 for the distress and inconvenience its delay in handling his complaint had
caused him. Our investigator didnt think, on balance, Brightside had mis-sold the policies.
He thought it was Mr Ps responsibility to check the cover he was getting met his needs.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr P has asked for an ombudsman to decide his complaint. In 
my provisional decision of 19 January 2022, I explained why I didnt think the policies had 
been mis-sold but I did think Mr P had been given incorrect information when he came to 
renew them. Mr P doesnt accept my provisional decision, saying he still thinks Brightside 
mis-sold him the policies. Brightside says, after further investigation, it accepts my 
provisional decision. So Mr Ps complaint has now come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Thats because, as I said in my 
provisional decision, I think Brightside gave Mr P inaccurate information about what his 
properties were insured for when he came to renew the policies. As I explained in my 
provisional decision, I think this has caused Mr P distress and inconvenience. In that 
decision, I said:
So far in this complaint, the main focus has been on what was or wasnt said in phone calls
between Mr P and Brightside on the day he bought the policies. And, especially given the
differing information Mr P and Brightside have given us about them, and the importance both
Mr P and Brightside attach to them, I think I should give my current thoughts on what I think
is likely to have happened on that day, based on the information I have.
Mr P says when he phoned Brightside to discuss the policy quotes hed got online,
Brightside told him his properties would be insured for loss or damage due to arson.
Brightside says it didnt tell Mr P this; it says he would only have been insured for loss or
damage due to arson if hed taken out malicious damage cover (which he didnt).
Mr Ps phone bill shows he made three phone calls to Brightside on the day he bought the
policies. Brightside has sent us two call recordings from that day. But only one (the first call
of the day) was made by Mr P. The other  the final call of the day, in which Mr P bought the
three policies  was an outgoing call made by Brightside. Brightside says it has no record of
the other two calls Mr P made in between the first and last calls. It says this could be
because Mr P made them but didnt get through to a representative.
Ive listened to the two call recordings Brightside has sent us. In the first, Brightside gave
Mr P quotes for three different levels of cover. These quotes were from two different
insurers. Neither of these insurers was the one Mr P ultimately insured his properties with.
Cover for arson wasnt discussed in this call. At the end of it, Mr P remained undecided
about the level of cover he wanted. So Brightside agreed to email Mr P the policy wordings
so he could check everything over.
In the second call recording Brightside has sent us, things had moved on. Mr P had already
decided on a medium level of cover. And the name of the insurer with whom he ended up
taking out cover was referred to, although cover for arson wasnt discussed.
In listening to these two calls, its clear to me Mr P had made some decisions about the
insurance cover he wanted in between them. And I think its likely he made those decisions
following other/another conversation(s) with Brightside (whether by phone or email or both).
If Im right about this, I dont (of course) know the substance of the conversation(s) 
although I acknowledge Mr P says Brightside told him at some point that day that his
properties were covered for loss or damage due to arson.
But, in the end, and based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think the phone calls (or any
other communications) on the day Brightside sold Mr P the policies are material to the
outcome of this complaint. Thats because we recently asked Brightside for a copy of the
policy document that contained the full terms and conditions of Mr Ps insurance. Looking at
this document, alongside Mr Ps policy schedules, I think if Mr P had had a fire at one of the
insured properties, his policies wouldve given him cover for any loss or damage that
occurred, no matter how the fire started.
The policy document says Mr Ps properties would be covered for (among other things) loss
or damage due to Fire, smoke damage, lightning, explosion or earthquake. Fire isnt
defined in the policy document. And theres only one specific exclusion that applies to it (for
loss or damage from any gradually operating cause). The policy document also has a
general exclusion for any loss or damage thats a result of a deliberate act by Mr P (and any
partner or family members permanently living with him).
Brightsides position throughout this complaint has been that, if Mr P had wanted cover forarson, hed have needed to take cover for malicious damage (which he didnt).
But, in my view, as long as it wasnt Mr Ps (or his familys) act, if there had been a fire at
one of Mr Ps insured parties  regardless of how it started  hed have been insured for any
loss or damage caused by it (as long as it wasnt from a gradually operating cause).
Also, as an aside, Mr Ps policy document says cover for malicious damage isnt available if
his properties are unoccupied (as defined in the policy document). So with this particular
policy, given that Mr Ps properties were unoccupied, I dont think hed have been able to
take out malicious damage cover even if hed asked to.
From all of this, it follows that I dont think Mr P was mis-sold the policies when he bought
them. So I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to direct Brightside to refund Mr P his
premiums.
But, as Ive already said, based on what Ive seen so far, I do think Brightside failed to give
Mr P the correct information about his cover when the policies came to renew. Mr P says it
was in a call with Brightside almost a year later that he was told hed only have been
covered for arson if hed chosen to take out malicious damage cover at the outset. Brightside
hasnt been able to give us a copy of this call recording, although it has shown us a
screenshot that outlines a discussion along these lines. And, as Ive said, its been
Brightsides position throughout that Mr Ps properties would only have been insured for
arson if hed asked for malicious damage cover.
I think Brightsides failure to give Mr P accurate information about his level of cover both
when he came to renew the policies, and subsequently during the course of his complaint,
has caused Mr P distress and inconvenience. And thats why I intend to uphold his
complaint.
When Mr P first brought his complaint to us, he said Brightsides failure to deal with this
matter had caused him great stress and aggravation in the context of his existing poor
health. And he says arranging insurance now causes him great anxiety. Brightside has
offered Mr P £50 for the distress and inconvenience its delay in dealing with his complaint
caused him. I think thats fair and reasonable. In addition to this, because of the distress and
inconvenience Brightside has caused Mr P by giving him what I think is inaccurate
information about his level of cover when he came to renew, I intend to direct Brightside to
pay him an additional £100 in compensation.
As Ive already said, Brightside has accepted my provisional decision but Mr P hasnt. Mr P 
asks if his underwriter has confirmed he was covered for arson  he says hes very sure that 
if hed suffered loss by arson his insurer wouldve turned down any claim he made. He also 
says this is a hugely important point not just for me, but potentially for other policyholders 
who could very easily find themselves trapped with inadequate cover for catastrophic loss 
trying to fight a large insurance company who would seek to evade liability through their own 
interpretation of what types of Fire they were insuring against.
Our role at this service is to decide individual complaints based on their specific facts and 
circumstances. Mr P has complained about how Brightside sold him his three policies. So 
thats all I can look at here. And for the reasons Ive given in my provisional decision  which 
Brightside has now accepted and which now form part of this final decision  I dont think the 
policies were mis-sold when Mr P took them out. 
We havent contacted Mr Ps insurer about its interpretation of fire. Wed only have been 
likely to do this if Mr P had complained about it declining a claim for fire caused by arson 
(and Mr P hasnt made a claim). I understand Mr P has a concern about how the insurance industry generally interprets fire 
in policies like the ones he took out through Brightside. But his concern is a wider conduct of 
business one. As such, it is more a matter for the Financial Conduct Authority as the 
regulator for the insurance industry to consider (if it thinks it appropriate), than for our service 
to give a general opinion on. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ps complaint and direct Brightside
Insurance Services Limited trading as One Insurance Solution to pay Mr P an additional
£100 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him (that is, in addition to the £50 it 
has already offered him). 
Brightside Insurance Services Limited trading as One Insurance Solution must pay this 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr P accepts my final decision. If 
it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman