DRN-1424250
 
The complaint
Miss G complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) opened an account and then 
closed it shortly after.
What happened
Miss G brought her complaint as she was unhappy with the response from NatWest. They 
told her after a review their decision to close her account remained the same. NatWest said 
in their Final Response Letter (FRL) they werent able to provide Miss G with any specific 
details surrounding their decision. They referred her to the terms and conditions relating to 
immediate closure of an account. But NatWest invited Miss G to send any supporting 
documentation she had to them and told her they would take it into account when 
considering her account closure appeal. NatWest reconsidered the matter but their 
conclusions remained the same.
Our investigator thought NatWest were within their rights to close Miss Gs account as long 
as they followed the terms and conditions. And that as this was a commercial decision 
NatWest werent obliged to provide any further explanation. He also thought NatWest had 
dealt fairly with her complaint. So, as he couldnt find any evidence of a mistake by NatWest 
he didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss G told us she was disappointed with the view. She told us she had a good credit record 
and had maintained her previous account with them well. She said her risk appetite was 
minimal due to the CIFAS marker being removed and proving her innocence. She though it 
didnt make sense that another bank had given her a new account but NatWest couldnt. She 
asked for the investigator to get a fair and just reason as to why NatWest arent able to open 
an account for her as that would be peace of mind for her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint in the letter 
giving his opinion. Im afraid theres not a great deal I can add to what hes already told Miss 
G. I think hes covered most points quite clearly and I agree with his conclusions.
The terms and conditions for this account  which Miss G agreed to on making her 
application  allow them to close the account immediately. The bank has set out the relevant 
clauses in their FRL, so I wont repeat them here. So I cant say theyve done anything 
wrong when closing the account. 
Miss G asked for NatWest to remedy her concerns by actually assessing the situation 
properly. The information NatWest have sent me shows they reviewed the decision to close 
the account twice. First when Miss G initially complained. And, second, after Miss G sent them further information and a letter from CIFAS. But they came to the same conclusion. So 
Im satisfied theyve done as shes asked and that they've acted reasonably. Miss G says 
wants the bank to give a legitimate excuse for not providing her with a bank account. I can 
understand that. But, as the investigator has covered in his view, a banks decision to close 
the account is a commercial one and they arent under any obligation to provide a further 
explanation.
Given how strongly Miss G feels about whats happened she may want to pursue the matter 
further through other routes  I can see the investigator has signposted the regulators details 
in his second view. But my decision brings to an end what we  in trying to resolve her 
dispute with NatWest informally  can do for her. Im sorry if this disappoints Miss G.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman