DRN-2965036
The complaint and background
The estate of Mr F complains that UKI erroneously disposed of a vehicle which was required 
in connection to legal action against a third party. Mr X is the executor of Mr Fs estate. 
All references to UKI include its agents.
Mr F was very sadly involved in a fatal accident in 2018. The estate made several 
claims on Mr Fs motor insurance policy. And in order to review these, UKI wanted 
to arrange an inspection of the vehicle;
Mr X said he wanted to oversee the collection of the vehicle from storage. And 
made clear that it was important the vehicle was preserved while evidence was 
gathered to support legal action against a third party (D);
UKI engaged directly with D (whod been storing the vehicle) about the 
collection, carried out an inspection, then erroneously disposed of the vehicle;
Mr X complained about that. He found evidence that UKI told its agents the claim 
had been settled, which it hadnt. And felt this gave the agents the impression the 
vehicle belonged to UKI, which probably contributed to what followed. He 
considered UKI had prejudiced the estates legal position;
He disagreed with comments UKIs engineer made about the vehicles condition 
and roadworthiness. And noted from the engineers pictures that the vehicle 
contained a holdall when it was disposed of, which likely contained Mr Fs things;
UKI offered to pay the estate £250 for the holdall and its contents (the policy limit 
for personal possession claims) and £500 compensation as an apology for 
disposing of the vehicle. It noted the engineers report would be available to Mr X 
to support any ongoing legal action;
Our investigator felt UKI had made a fair offer. Mr X didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. He sent us a statement from a solicitor explaining the 
impact UKIs actions had on the litigation, and a list of Mr Fs items that are 
unaccounted for (the implication being they were likely in the holdall). This included 
clothes and shoes to the value of £3,000, a tablet, aftershave, a washbag and 
some cash;
UKI later paid the estate a settlement for the total loss of Mr Fs vehicle with 
interest and compensation. The settlement amount was the subject of a separate 
complaint and wont be addressed again here. Our investigator is also looking into 
a complaint about the extent to which the legal action should be being funded by 
Mr Fs policy.
On 22 July 2021, I issued a provisional decision. I said:
Id like to start by expressing my condolences to Mr X and his family and acknowledging the
difficult circumstances around this complaint. My role requires me to review evidence from
an independent perspective. That means, at times, my decision may seem dispassionate
and matter of fact  I mean no offence by this.
There seems to be broad agreement around the circumstances of this complaint and UKI
accepts it disposed of the car when it had agreed not to. Whats at issue here is what
redress should be paid to recognise the error UKI made and its impact.
The challenge in this case is that many of the points raised by the estate are based on
supposition  Mr X has said what he thinks might have been in the vehicle, and how he
thinks the litigation might have played out differently had the vehicle been preserved.
But where evidence is unclear or incomplete, I need to reach my decision based on whats
more likely than not. And this on balance test is the one I have to apply when deciding what I
think fair redress is here, whilst also keeping in mind whats fair to both parties.
Ive started by considering whether the estate has incurred any financial losses.
Sale of parts
Starting with the vehicle itself, I can see it was extensively damaged and that UKIs engineer
considered it to be a category A write off. According to the Association of British Insurers
code of practice for the categorisation of motor vehicle salvage, this means it wasnt suitable
for repair and the owner would have had a statutory duty to crush it without any parts being
removed. As such, I dont think the estate lost out on the opportunity to sell the parts.
Loss of Mr Fs personal items
In terms of Mr Fs personal items, Im minded to agree with Mr X that the limit in Mr Fs policy
for personal items isnt strictly relevant here, as the items were destroyed due to UKIs error,
not an insured event. So, UKI is making a payment to correct something it did wrong, rather
than in response to a claim under the terms of Mr Fs policy.
The fact is though, because the vehicle was destroyed, no-one knows what was inside the
holdall (or elsewhere in the vehicle). Mr X thinks that Mr F would likely have taken the holdall
on a trip to London. And hes produced a list of Mr Fs items he says are missing, all of which
are things someone might conceivably take on an overnight stay to London. He says hes
not seen evidence to suggest D searched the holdall or itemised its contents.
I explored with Mr X whether there was evidence to show Mr F owned the items described
on the list (for example card transactions, receipts, account statements, or pictures of the
items or their packaging). Mr X said he had nothing of this nature to provide.
I know it may be difficult for an estate to gather this sort of evidence, particularly given the
time thats passed. Ive tried to be pragmatic in light of that. But, even if I accepted Mr F took
the holdall to London, without some proof that Mr F owned the items Mr X says are missing,
Im not satisfied its more likely than not they were in the vehicle when it was disposed of.
Mr X has also said there might have been cash in the vehicle, some of which was owed to a
family member. But all Mr X has presented on this point is his belief that Mr F would have
been carrying more cash than was found on his person. I havent seen evidence to show this
is more likely than not.Given the above, I can see why UKI used £250 as a starting point. I appreciate the reason
no-one knows what was in the vehicle is because UKI disposed of it. And I accept theres a
possibility the vehicle contained items worth more than £250, and the actions of UKI mean
the estate has no way to find out. Ive kept that in mind when considering compensation for
non-financial loss.
The legal action
As I understand, an inquest found that Ds actions contributed to Mr Fs death. The ongoing
legal action is brought by the estate against D for damages, and includes allegations it didnt
properly investigate the accident. Ds complaints handling body is also carrying out its own
separate review of the circumstances of the accident.
The solicitor has accepted it isnt possible to put an actual value on the loss of the vehicle as
a piece of evidence. In short, they wanted to check details recorded by D in order to disprove
some serious allegations it made against Mr F and highlight contradictions in its evidence.
They say this might have resolved some of the larger issues still being disputed.
But whether this would have increased the prospect of the estate being awarded damages
(or the amount of damages to be awarded), or whether it might have reduced the estates
exposure to legal costs, all depends on what the investigations would have shown, and how
much theyd have fuelled, or curtailed, the legal debate on each of the issues in dispute.
Theres simply no way of establishing that.
Overall, Im not satisfied theres evidence to show its more likely than not that, if UKI hadnt
disposed of the vehicle, the estate would have achieved a better outcome in the processes
mentioned above, and / or been exposed to less legal costs. The extent to which the legal
action should be being funded by UKI as Mr Fs insurer is being investigated separately.
I again recognise though that the very reason there are so many unknowns here is because
UKI disposed of the car against the estates wishes. Ive accounted for this lost opportunity in
the compensation for non-financial loss. Ive kept in mind the seriousness of both sides
allegations in the ongoing dispute, but also that no charges can be brought against Mr F.
I can see UKI made its engineers report available to the estate, but this wasnt carried out
with the legal action in mind, and is therefore of limited value. Many of the other documents
UKI suggested the estate could use were produced by D, its opponent in the legal action.
Non-financial loss
Its important to be clear that Mr Fs estate is the eligible complainant here. The estate isnt a
natural person, but a representation of Mr Fs interests after his death. It therefore cant
suffer distress, but it can be inconvenienced.
I acknowledge the events surrounding the accident and subsequent claim have caused Mr X
personal distress, but that isnt something I have the power to make an award for. Thats
because Mr X isnt involved in the dispute in a personal capacity, but as a representative of
Mr Fs estate.
Ive already highlighted ways in which the disposal of the vehicle inconvenienced the estate,
both in terms of the loss of the opportunities to establish what was inside it, and to carry out
its own investigations on it. Ive balanced this against the possibility that the contents of the
vehicle might have been worth less than £250 and that the investigations might have been
inconclusive, or of limited value in the ongoing dispute.Ive also taken into account the time Mr X spent corresponding with UKI about the issues
addressed in this decision. This was inconvenient for the estate as it was all time Mr X (as
the executor) wasnt able to spend attending to the fallout from the accident. I understand
the time he had to commit to the legal action in particular was extensive.
Having weighed up the impact of UKIs actions, and separated the inconvenience to the
estate from the distress caused to Mr X personally, I intend to direct UKI to increase its offer
of compensation for non-financial losses from £500 to £750. As discussed, UKI has also
agreed to pay £250 for financial losses (the loss of Mr Fs personal items).
Other matters
Mr X remains unhappy with observations made by UKIs engineer about the vehicles
condition and roadworthiness. But UKI ultimately chose not to rely on those observations.
I dont think they caused any loss to the estate, beyond the time Mr X spent corresponding
with UKI about them (which is accounted for above).
I think Mr X is likely right to conclude that the reference to the claim being settled on the
release form caused various parties to think the vehicle now belonged to UKI. But as UKI
already accepts responsibility for the vehicle being disposed of against Mr Xs wishes, I dont
feel this needs to be addressed any further.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, I intend to uphold this complaint and direct U K Insurance
Limited to pay Mr Fs estate £750 compensation for its non-financial losses (less any
amounts already paid) and £250 for Mr Fs lost personal items (if it hasnt already).
If UKI hasnt already paid £250 to the estate for Mr Fs lost personal items, I intend to direct it
to add interest a rate of 8% annual simple from the date the vehicle was disposed of to the
date the settlement is paid.
Responses to my provisional decision 
UKI agreed to the uplift in compensation, but didnt think it should have to pay interest on the 
settlement for Mr Fs lost personal items. It said that to award interest implied it had withheld 
these funds from the estate, even though it sent them to Mr X by cheque in December 2019. 
(Mr X subsequently returned the cheque without cashing it).  
Mr X said:
UKIs actions in the run up to the vehicle being destroyed amount to theft and fraud 
and my decision appears to condone this; 
The nature of the engineers report clearly illustrates UKIs continued prejudice 
against Mr F and his estate;
Had the vehicle not been disposed of, the estate could have carried out tests which 
might have categorically disproved some of Ds testimony, particularly concerning 
substances found in the vehicle, the likely whereabouts of the key and whether D 
could have searched parts of the vehicle without it; 
The estate never had any interest in selling the vehicle for parts;Its very unreasonable to expect the estate to provide evidence of Mr Fs lost items, 
particularly given the time thats passed. All his contents are in storage until such 
time as the estate can face dealing with them further. But it was noted that the items 
in Mr Xs list were missing, and it was assumed theyd eventually be returned by D;
The holdall wasnt an overnight bag. It accompanied Mr F on a two-week trip to 
London, which is consistent with the list of lost items; 
Given UKI disposed of the vehicle, it should be for UKI to show the disposal of the 
vehicle wouldnt have assisted the legal action, and that the contents of the vehicle 
werent as Mr X has listed them. Theyve gained an unfair advantage by disposing of 
the vehicle. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr X feels UKIs actions amount to theft and fraud. But my remit only allows me to consider 
whether its actions were fair and reasonable. UKI has already accepted that in disposing of 
the vehicle, it didnt act fairly or reasonably. So, my decision focused on how it should put 
things right. This shouldnt be mistaken for an endorsement of UKIs actions. Furthermore, 
as were not a regulator, I cant fine or punish UKI. I can only consider the impact of UKIs 
actions on the eligible complainant (the estate) and make an award to remedy that impact.
I also accepted that the document UKI sent to its agents probably did cause various parties 
to think the vehicle belonged to UKI. But this just provides context for why the vehicle was 
disposed of. It doesnt change the impact that had on the estate. That would be true even if, 
as Mr X alleges, UKI falsified the document on purpose. 
I largely agree that the tone of UKIs engineers report was insensitive and accusatory. But 
as I explained in the provisional decision, an estate cant be distressed. I acknowledged that 
Mr X (as the executor of the estate) spent time corresponding with UKI about the report, and 
accounted for that in the compensation amount. But UKI ultimately didnt rely on anything 
within the report to decline any of the estates claims. So, it caused no financial loss. 
Im grateful to Mr X for providing further details of the legal action. But I remain of the view 
that theres no sound basis for concluding its more likely than not that the estate would have 
been awarded redress (or more redress) in the legal action / complaint process if it had 
carried out its own investigations on the vehicle, or that it would have incurred less costs.
To reach such a finding would involve trying to predict the results of the investigations and 
their effect on the legal action / complaint process. This would be speculation. I can accept 
its possible the disposal of the vehicle prejudiced the estates position in these processes, 
and / or that it increased their exposure to legal costs, but that isnt the standard of proof I 
need to apply here. I allowed for the loss of the opportunity to arrange the investigations in 
the compensation for the estates non-financial loss. 
I accept the estate didnt ever mention it intended to sell the vehicle for parts. But we have 
an inquisitorial remit (which means we arent limited to the complaint points presented). And 
I felt it was relevant to my assessment of the estates financial losses to consider whether 
the vehicle itself held any value at the point it was disposed of. I note Mr Xs point that no-one knows what was in the vehicle because UKI disposed of it. 
And UKI shouldnt profit from its errors. But in order to make a further award, Id still need to 
be satisfied its more likely than not that the contents of the vehicle were worth more than the 
amount UKI has offered. The list of items Mr X has presented, while consistent with what 
someone might take to London, isnt supported by any proof Mr F ever owned those items. 
I realise that to collate such evidence is difficult three years on from the accident, logistically 
and emotionally. But in the absence of any proof of ownership at all, I dont think I can fairly 
direct UKI to use Mr Xs list as the basis of settlement. Again, I can accept its possible the 
vehicle contained items worth more than £250, but that isnt the standard of proof I need to 
apply here. And I accounted for the loss of the opportunity to establish what was in the 
vehicle for certain in the compensation for the estates non-financial losses.  
Whilst I acknowledge UKIs point that it sent the estate a cheque relating to Mr Fs lost 
personal items in December 2019, I still think the interest award is appropriate. This amount 
is owed to the estate because UKIs error caused it a financial loss (the estimated value of 
the vehicles contents). Until that amount is paid to the estate, its out of pocket. I dont think 
interest should only apply until the date UKI originally sent the estate a cheque just because 
the estate exercised its right to refer its complaint to this service for review. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. 
I direct U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr Fs estate £750 compensation for its non-financial 
losses and £250 for Mr Fs lost personal items. 
I direct it to add interest at a rate of 8% annual simple to the £250 for Mr Fs lost personal 
items from the date the vehicle was disposed of to the date the complaint is settled. 
UKI must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it the estate of 
Mr F accepts my final decision. If it pays later, it must also pay interest on the compensation 
from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr F 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
Mike Walker  
Ombudsman
