DRN-4436173
The complaint
Mr E has complained PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA wont refund him for payments he 
didnt authorise.
What happened
After noticing five transactions debit his bank account, Mr E complained to his bank (who Ill 
call L). These payments had been made using PayPal. L initiated a chargeback which was 
rejected by PayPal.
Mr E complained to PayPal who believed hed made these transactions. Mr E brought his 
complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the limited evidence. Mr E held a PayPal account which he used 
annually to pay his Microsoft software licences. The five disputed transactions had taken 
place in April 2023 and were purchases for games. Our investigator noted that Mr E didnt 
own a games console and the purchases resembled fraudulent transactions. He asked 
PayPal to refund Mr E.
PayPal wouldnt agree and have asked an ombudsman to consider Mr Es complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Es complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
To help me come to a decision, Ive reviewed the evidence PayPal provided as well as what 
Mr E has told us. 
I believe these transactions were carried out by a third party and not Mr E. I say this 
because:
Mr E has no history of buying games or owning a games console. The five disputed 
transactions for £74.99 each are multiple purchases of the same game so this 
immediately suggests its unlikely Mr E would have made these transactions.
PayPal has limited evidence to show how these transactions were made as they 
dont have access to IP data or similar. This is understandable as the transactions 
were made using Mr Es Microsoft account. Mr E used this account to pay for his 
annual software licences and this is backed up by the payment evidence PayPal has 
provided.
Im satisfied theres a possibility Mr Es Microsoft account could have been 
compromised. This means that any transactions would not have been authorised by 
Mr E.
Im satisfied there isnt sufficient evidence as required by the PSRs to show Mr E made 
these disputed transactions.
Putting things right
PayPal will need to refund the five transactions to Mr E. These total £374.95. They will also 
have to add 8% simple interest to this amount.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA to:
Refund £374.75 to Mr E; and
Add 8% simple interest to this amount from 11 April 2023 to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman