DRN-4280980
The complaint
X and Mr M complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) is refusing to refund X and Mr M the 
amount Mr M lost as the result of a scam.
What happened
In summary Mr M found an advertisement online whereby a celebrity was endorsing the 
services of a business called Interabroker (IB). IB offered services in relation to stock 
trading. Interested in the opportunity Mr M completed a data caption form with his personal 
contact information.
IB contacted Mr M by telephone to explain the investment opportunity and persuaded Mr M 
to invest with it. Mr M was able to see his investment using the platform MetaTrader4 that IB 
gave him access to. Mr M also checked he was able to make a small withdrawal from the 
investment.
Having had some successful trades some of Mr Ms trades started to make a loss and he 
was encouraged to make further payments to offset the losses.
After making a payment as directed by IB Mr M was again asked to make further substantial 
payments into the investments. At this point Mr M became suspicious about the legitimacy of 
IB and has been unable to recover any further funds.
Mr M made the following payments totalling £254,765.86, via transfer and his debit card as 
directed by IB:
Date Amount Payment method Merchant
31 July 2019 £4,595.55 Debit Card School4broker
31 July 2019 £4,595.55 Debit Card School4broker
2 August 2019 £4,574.15 Debit Card School4broker
2 August 2019 £4,574.15 Debit Card School4broker
15 August 2019 £25,000 Bill Payment The Currency Cloud
26 August 2019 £25,000 Bill Payment The Currency Cloud
28 August 2019 £10,000 Bill Payment The Currency Cloud
1 November 2019 £10,306.23 International Transfer ONPEX
29 November 2019 £20,593.33 International Transfer Paychrome
12 December 2019 £20,604.90 International Transfer Paychrome
23 December 2019 £29,922 International Transfer Paychrome
25 February 2020 £30,000 International Transfer Paychrome
25 February 2020 £20,000 International Transfer Paychrome
26 February 2020 £20,000 Bill Payment Niko Technologies
27 February 2020 £10,000 Bill Payment Niko Technologies
18 March 2020 £15,000 International Transfer Niko Technologies
In my provisional decision sent in May 2023 I said:
Methods of recovery
For payments that are made by debit card HSBCs only method of recovery would be via
chargeback. But HSBC was unable to process a chargeback for the payments Mr M made in
relation to this scam.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
As Mr M complained to HSBC outside of the applicable time limits this method of recovering
the funds was not available.
There are no recovery methods for international transfer payments other than contacting the
payee bank that would likely only be successful if the request was made close to date the
initial payment was made. I cant see that this was explored by HSBC.
Should HSBC have stepped in to prevent the scam from taking place?
Mr M has accepted he authorised the payments he made in relation to the scam, so the
starting point here is that Mr M is responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services
Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud
and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether HSBC should have stepped in when Mr M was attempting to
make the payments, and if it had, would it have been able to prevent the scam taking place.
Our Investigator thought the payments Mr M made in relation to the scam were not out of 
character when compared to his usual spending.
I have looked at X and Mr Ms account statements for the 12 months that lead to the
payments Mr M made in relation to the scam. There were several payments made over
£5,000 that I would consider to be larger payments however these payments were clearly
identified for specific purposes not related to investments or investment services.
For example, a payment was made in August 2018 for over £740,000 in relation to a house
purchase to a named solicitor via transfer. In March 2019 three payments were made to a
named car manufacturer for £10,000 but again these payments were clearly made in relation
to a car purchase. Other payments including a hospital payment and a payment for window
glazing both for less than £10,000 were also made by transfer.
On the 31 July 2019 Mr M made two payments for the same amount (£4,595.55) to a new
payee (School4broker). I cant see from X and Mr Ms statement history that this value of
payment was common for them, or that they had a history of paying new businesses large
amounts more than once in the same day.
A few days later, on 2 August 2019 Mr M made two more payments of the same amount
(£4,574.15) to the same payee.
When looking at the spend on X and Mr Ms account I think it was out of character for Mr M
to make payments the same day for the same relatively high amounts to a new payee using
his debit card. I think it would be reasonable for HSBC to step in by the time Mr M made the
fourth payment to School4broker on 2 August 2019. This was the second time Mr M hadmade large payments the same day to a new payee of the same value.
Had HSBC stepped in and had a meaningful conversation with Mr M about the payments he
was making I see no reason why Mr M wouldnt have given an honest account of what he
was making the payments for. That he had been working with IB and he had been drawn to
the investment by a celebrity endorsement. These were common characteristics of a scam
of this type.
With the above information I think its likely HSBC would have uncovered the likelihood of
the payments being related to a scam and had it given an adequate warning to Mr M I think
its likely he would not have made any further payments. So, I think HSBC missed an
opportunity to step in and prevent X and Mr Ms losses that occurred after the third payment
he made into the scam on 2 August 2019
Did Mr M contribute to his loss?
I think this was a sophisticated scam and Mr M couldnt have reasonably foreseen that he
was dealing with a scammer. Mr M was able to see balances on his trading account with X
and even make withdrawals. So, I dont think he could have reasonably known that the
trading balance was likely fake or a simulation  unless prompted by his trusted bank.
Overall, I dont think Mr M contributed to the loss, so I dont suggest the overall settlement be
reduced.
I gave both X and Mr M, and HSBC time to respond to my provisional decision. HSBC didnt 
agree and provided a response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision HSBC raised additional points to be considered.
HSBC said I had applied retrospective standards to the transactions that took place in 
relation to the scam in 2019-2020 and that had the complaint been brought to our service 
sooner it would not have been upheld. This is not the case as authorities such as the FCA 
had published warnings about similar types of scams well before this scam took place, so 
HSBC should have been aware of the potential scam risks and stepped in as explained 
above.
HSBC also said that it wasnt reasonable to expect its fraud prevention systems to have 
been triggered as Mr M was paying several payees, and the link between them would not 
have been immediately clear. Mr M had also made other large payments, some on the same 
day. 
Again, this doesnt change my decision as the payments Mr M made were of a high value to 
new payees. On both 31 July 2019 and 2 August 2019 Mr M made two identical payments to 
the same payee. On both days these payments totalled over £9,000. Splitting payments in 
this way is a common method used by scammers to avoid fraud prevention systems and 
HSBC should have been aware of this at the time. I have also previously discussed large 
payments made from Mr Ms account in my provisional decision and given reasons why I 
dont think these should have stopped HSBCs fraud prevention systems from being 
triggered. If HSBCs systems are unable to recognise one off payments related to house and 
car purchases, from those made in scams such as this one, Mr M should not have to bear 
the responsibility. In addition to the above HSBC has referenced a call it had with Mr M on 26 February 2020 to 
support its view that even if it had intervened Mr M would not have given honest information 
about the payments that would have raised its concern.
I have listened to this call. HSBC were checking a payment Mr M was making. Mr M 
explained he was making a payment to a trading company he had been using for the last 
year and had to top up his account before losing it as the stock market had fallen down and 
he said he found it easy to transfer money from the HSBC account. It appears in this call that 
Mr M was giving honest answers to HSBCs questions that further strengthen my belief that 
Mr M would have given accurate answers had HSBC intervened earlier in the scam as it 
should have. While My M may not have been using what he thought was a legitimate trading 
company for a full year, he had been using it for some time and I dont think he was 
withholding accurate information.
Mr M explained in this call features of common scams i.e. having to top up a trading account 
because the market had fallen, and that money would be returned later. Instead of giving an 
appropriate warning to Mr M HSBC explained it would put a marker on the account so future 
payments wouldnt be stopped.
HSBC says that Mr M should at least share blame for his loss due to him being negligent 
making the payments into the scam and Mr M also sent more payments from an account 
elsewhere totalling another very large sum. Although HSBC also recognises there was no 
adverse information available for the company Mr M was investing with online.
I have thought about whether Mr M should be held partly responsible for his loss and thought 
about this in my provisional decision. HSBC hasnt provided any further evidence to support 
its view but pointed to evidence I already had available. While some of the aspects of the 
scam may have raised red flags for a business such as HSBC, including payments Mr M 
was making from another of his bank accounts, which HSBC would likely have found out 
about if it had stepped in when I said it should have. I think this was a sophisticated scam 
that the scammer went to great lengths to make appear legitimate. I dont think Mr M could 
have reasonably foreseen that he was dealing with a scammer, and I dont think he should 
share blame for his loss.
HSBC has further said that 8% interest should not be added to the amount awarded in 
relation to this complaint as Mr M took some time making his complaint to it and he would 
likely have made a similar high-risk investment with the funds he lost. 
I have thought about this, but Mr M made his complaint within the times allowed and 
because of HSBC not stepping in to prevent the scam Mr M has been without access to 
these funds since they left his account. Its also not possible to know, even if Mr M was to 
invest the money elsewhere, that he wouldnt have made a profit in excess of 8%. So, I think 
its fair to apply the interest of 8% from the time the payments were made.
None of the points HSBC raised have changed my mind on the outcome I reached in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
HSBC UK Bank Plc should therefore refund the total amount Mr M paid into the scam less 
the first three payments he made, and any withdrawals he received.
To compensate Mr M for having been deprived of this money, HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
also pay Mr M interest on the loss at 8% simple per year, calculated from the date of loss to 
the date of settlement.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to put things right by doing what Ive 
said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman