The complaint
Ms S is unhappy about the way in which U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim she 
made on her legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy. 
What happened
Ms S had the benefit of a home insurance policy  taken out in June 2018 - which included 
LEI. She sought to make a claim on her LEI policy to cover a claim against her neighbour for 
trespass and harassment after Ms Ss neighbour painted a fence panel belonging to her in 
April 2019.
One of UKIs panel law firms (the panel firm) carried out an assessment of those claims. In 
July 2019, the panel firm advised:
the prospects of her succeeding in claim for harassment under the Protection from
Harassment Act 1997 were no better than 50%; and
by painting her fence, Ms Ss neighbour had trespassed and caused damage to Ms
Ss property. However, the neighbour had agreed to stop painting the remaining
fence panels and the damage caused to the one that had been painted would cost
around £114 to put right. So, the claim wouldnt be proportionate to pursue.
Relying on this assessment, UKI agreed to pay around £114 to settle Ms Ss trespass claim. 
It did inform Ms S that if she obtained a barristers opinion advising that the trespass claim 
was proportionate to pursue, it would consider funding the claim further.
As the claim for harassment didnt enjoy the requisite prospects of success, UKI said it 
wouldnt continue to fund that claim. Subsequently, it also informed Ms S that, as shed said 
shed first been harassed by her neighbour in the summer of 2016, it wouldnt fund that claim 
under the policy because it occurred before the policy started. 
Unhappy, Ms S complained to our Service. Our investigator concluded that UKI hadnt done 
anything wrong, so didnt uphold Ms Ss complaint. Ms S disagrees. Her complaint has now 
been passed to me to look at everything afresh and decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. Before I explain why I just want to assure Ms S that 
although I havent addressed each point shes made, Ive taken on board all her comments. 
And although shes asked to speak with the ombudsman deciding her complaint before a 
decision is made, I dont think thats necessary. Ms S has clearly articulated the reasons why 
DRN-1472631she doesnt think UKI has treated her fairly and I have all the information I need to decide 
this complaint without asking for anything else. 
UKI has an obligation to handle complaints promptly and fairly, and it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim.
Under the policy UKI is entitled to appoint a law firm to assess the merits of Ms S 
succeeding in her claim. And then represent her in that action, covering her costs, if she had 
more chance of winning her case than not - subject to the remaining policy terms.
Under the policy, costs include: all properly incurred, reasonable and proportionate fees, 
expenses and disbursements charged by the appointed representative and agreed by 
(UKI) (my emphasis). 
Those sorts of terms arent uncommon in LEI policies and generally we dont think an 
insurers reliance on them is unfair. Thats because it wouldnt be reasonable for an insurer 
to fund a claim that isnt likely to succeed, or where a privately paying client wouldnt be 
advised to start, or continue with, legal action because the costs of doing so are likely to 
outweigh the value of the claim. 
Ms S is very unhappy with the way her case was conducted by the panel firm and the advice 
she received.  This Service cant consider complaints about the general legal advice or 
service given by a law firm; theyre not under UKIs control. They are independent 
professionals with their own regulator and complaints procedures.
This Service can only consider whether UKI did anything wrong in the way it handled 
the insurance claim. That includes whether the advice given to Ms S by the panel firm was 
obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes to the extent that UKI shouldve reasonably 
questioned it. I dont think thats the case here. 
UKI is also required to appoint a suitably qualified representative to act for Ms S under the 
policy. Given the experience and areas of expertise of the solicitor who advised Ms S, Im 
satisfied UKI did this. Further, after Ms S complained about the advice given from the law 
firm, a more senior solicitor reviewed the file and confirmed that they agreed with the 
assessment.
Ms Ss harassment claim
Im satisfied that when UKI withdrew cover for Ms Ss harassment claim, it reasonably relied 
on the advice of the panel firm setting out, in detail, why in its opinion that claim didnt enjoy 
reasonable prospects of success. After all, the panel firm are the legal professionals and had 
day to day conduct of her case. 
Im also satisfied that UKIs subsequent decision that it wouldnt fund Ms S harassment 
claim in any event, on the basis that it pre-dated the start of the policy, is fair and 
reasonable. 
Thats because the policy only provides cover if the date of incident occurs during the period 
the LEI policy was in force. 
I can understand why Ms S says that the act of harassment she sought legal cover for was 
an isolated incident that occurred during the period of insurance. However, Ms S has also 
provided details of other acts of harassment she says she was subjected to by the same 
neighbour in the summer of 2016 and in March 2017; before the policy was taken out.Under the policy, date of incident is defined as:
the date of the incident that leads to a claim. If more than one incident arises at different 
times from the same cause, the date of incident is the date of the first of these incidents.
That sort of term also isnt uncommon in LEI policies and again, we dont generally think its 
unfair. Thats because it wouldnt be reasonable to expect an insurer to fund a claim, relating 
to circumstances the policyholder was aware of before the policy was taken out. And, here, I 
dont think UKI has unreasonably relied on that term when concluding that there had been 
more than one incident arising from the same cause and that first act of harassment 
occurred before the policy was taken out. 
Ms Ss trespass claim
The LEI policy also says UKI can:
decide to settle your claim by paying you the compensation you are likely to be awarded by 
a court instead of starting or continuing your claim or legal proceedings. If your claim is not 
for damages, we may decide to settle your claim by paying you the equivalent financial value 
of your claim.
Im satisfied that UKI fairly applied this term by reasonably relying on the advice of the panel 
firm when deciding to offer Ms S around £114 in settlement of her claim. That was the value 
of the claim given by the panel firm when advising that it wouldnt be proportionate to pursue 
the claim.
Further, considering the advice from the panel firm, I think it was reasonable for UKI to 
inform Ms S that if she didnt agree with the advice that it wasnt proportionate to pursue a 
trespass claim, she was free to obtain a second opinion from a barrister  initially at her own 
expense  in line with the policy terms. If a barrister confirmed that it was proportionate to 
pursue such claim, UKI said it would consider reimbursing the barristers fee and reinstate 
cover. I think that was reasonbale and in line with what I wouldve expected. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman