DRN-1812537
The complaint
Miss B has complained through her representative that Advancis Limited trading as Buddy 
Loans acted irresponsibly when it accepted her as guarantor for a loan taken out by Mr S.
What happened
Miss B entered into a guarantee and indemnity agreement in respect of a £6,500 loan that 
Buddy Loans provided to Mr S, the borrower, in February 2019. The loan was due to be 
repaid in 60 monthly instalments of around £256. The total amount to be repaid over the five-
year loan term was just over £15,500 including interest. 
Miss S says she was coerced by Mr S into guaranteeing his loan and that it was 
unaffordable for her. She says that she should not have been accepted as the loan 
guarantor because she was already guaranteeing two other loans for Mr S. 
Miss B has also complained that the loan should never had been given to Mr S, but I think 
this a matter between the borrower and Buddy Loans. My decision deals solely with Miss Bs 
complaint about whether or not she should have been accepted as the loan guarantor.  
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Bs complaint. She thought that Buddy Loans 
shouldnt have accepted Miss B as the loan guarantor. Buddy Loans disagreed with the 
adjudicators assessment. As Miss Bs complaint has not been resolved informally, the 
matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit and guarantor loans on our 
website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
Buddy Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't act irresponsibly when 
it accepted Miss B as guarantor for Mr Ss loan. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what it means for Miss Bs complaint. In doing so, I have considered the overarching 
questions:
Did Buddy Loans obtain Miss Bs properly informed consent to become guarantor for 
the loan?
Did Buddy Loans carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss B was in a position to sustainably repay the loan, in the event that the borrower 
did not? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the 
time?
Ultimately, did Buddy Loans make a fair lending decision (as Miss B would be equally 
liable for this loan with the borrower).
I have listened to the recordings of three telephone conversations that Buddy Loans held 
with Miss B at the time. Overall, I think Miss B did agree to becoming the loan guarantor. 
Miss B had to take steps during the process to actively confirm that she was willing to act as 
loan guarantor and from the evidence presented, I think its likely that Miss B understood that 
she might be called upon to repay the loan, if the borrower didnt meet the loan repayments 
himself.
Miss B has told us that she was coerced into becoming the guarantor. She says her 
relationship broke down shortly after the loan was taken out. She has provided evidence 
about what happened and the impact that this has had upon her. I am sorry that Miss B has 
experienced such a difficult time. But I have to consider whether Buddy Loans was aware, or 
ought reasonably to have been aware, that Miss B might be acting under some form of 
coercion or pressure when it accepted her as the loan guarantor. I have thought about this 
very carefully. But taking into account everything Ive reviewed, including the telephone 
recordings, I cannot fairly say that I think Buddy Loans ought reasonably to have realised 
that Miss B was feeling pressured or coerced by the borrower. 
However, I dont think Buddy Loans ultimately made a fair lending decision when it accepted 
Miss B as the loan guarantor and I will explain why.
The rules and regulations required Buddy Loans to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of whether Miss B could afford to repay this loan sustainably, as guarantor, if 
she was called to do so - as she was equally liable with Mr S for this debt. Buddy Loans had 
to carry out this guarantor-focussed assessment in addition to the proportionate checks it 
was required to undertake in relation to the borrower. In effect this meant that Buddy Loans 
had to ensure that, if the guarantee was enforced against Miss B, it wouldnt adversely 
impact her financial situation. There was no set list of checks that the lender had to do, but it 
could take into account a number of different things such as the loan amount, the length of 
the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the guarantors overall financial circumstances.
Buddy Loans asked Miss B for information about her income and expenditure; it also 
requested a payslip and it carried out some credit checks. Buddy Loans says that, based on 
the information Miss B provided and what it found in its checks, there was nothing to suggest 
that Miss B wouldnt be able to afford the loan, if she was called upon to make the repayments.
But in the circumstances, I dont think the checks Buddy Loans carried out were reasonable 
or proportionate.
The information that Miss B provided about her financial position would seem to suggest she 
could have covered the loan repayment each month, if called to do so. But Buddy Loans was 
aware that Miss B was already acting as guarantor for Mr S on two other loans and it told 
Miss B that it thought her finances seemed stretched. I accept that there were no defaults 
on her credit report, but Miss B was applying to Buddy Loans to act as guarantor for an 
expensive loan, repayable over a long period. In the circumstances I would expect Buddy 
Loans to have wanted to gather and independently check more detailed information about 
Miss Bs financial situation before accepting her as loan guarantor.  
I appreciate that Buddy Loans had acquired a credit report and pay slips from Miss B but it 
seems to me that it relied heavily on information she provided about her expenditure.  The 
rules and regulations say that where a lender takes income or expenditure into account, it is 
not generally sufficient for it to rely solely on a statement of those matters made by the 
customer. As I explained above, I think Buddy Loans ought reasonably have sought a more 
detailed understanding of Miss Bs financial position in order to assess whether shed be 
able to sustainably repay the loan, if called to do so,  over the extended loan term. 
So as well as asking Miss B about her income and expenditure, I think Buddy Loans should 
have carried out more detailed and independent checks into Miss Bs financial 
circumstances  for example by asking to see her bank statements.
Miss B has provided us with copies of her bank statements leading up to her guarantor 
application to Buddy Loans, so I can determine what better checks might have shown the 
lender at that time. And I have considered this information in light of what Ive set out above. 
Of course, different checks might show different things. But I think if Buddy Loans had 
carried out what I consider to be proportionate checks, I think its likely it would have 
discovered more about Miss Bs financial position.
In particular I think its likely that Buddy Loans would have discovered that Miss B had taken 
out a personal loan from another high cost lender for over £3,000 a few weeks prior to 
applying to act as loan guarantor for Mr S. 
Miss Bs living expenses were also higher than she had estimated when speaking to Buddy 
Loans and she was very regularly paying large amounts of money to Mr S, over and above 
the loans she was guaranteeing for him. In the three months prior to guaranteeing Mr Ss 
loan Miss B made over 50 separate payments to him. It seems to me that she was 
supporting Mr S financially, transferring hundreds of pounds to him every month. 
I also note that Buddy Loans was aware that Miss B was already acting as loan guarantor for 
Mr S on two other loans. Buddy Loans told her that it would only accept her as loan 
guarantor for Mr S if she made sure that he paid off one of these other loans  effectively 
ensuring she would only guarantee the Buddy Loan plus one other loan for Mr S. But I think 
Buddy Loans was relying on Mr S acting as he said he intended - in paying off one of his 
loans and thereby releasing Miss B as guarantor for that loan. I think Buddy Loans ought 
reasonably to have realised there was considerable risk to Miss B that the borrower might 
not pay off one of his loans as planned, and that if he ran into financial difficulties, Miss B 
might find herself being called upon to repay all three of his loans as guarantor  and it was 
unlikely that she would be able to do so sustainably.
Taking things in the round, I think that Buddy Loans ought reasonably have realised that Miss B was most likely over committed financially and that there was a considerable risk that 
if she was called upon to make payments on Mr Ss loan, she would be unable to do so 
sustainably, over an extended loan term. In the circumstances, I think Buddy Loans ought 
reasonably to have concluded that it was not appropriate to accept Miss B as loan guarantor 
for Mr S.
Miss B has raised a number of other issues through her representative. I would like to 
reassure her that I have considered everything that both she and Buddy Loans have told us. 
If I have not addressed all of Miss Bs points in my decision it is because I have focussed on 
what I think is at the heart of her complaint: whether it was right for Buddy Loans to have 
accepted her as guarantor for Mr Ss loan. 
Having considered all the evidence provided to me and reflecting on what is most likely to 
have happened in the circumstances, I am upholding Miss Bs complaint.
I think Buddy Loans acted unfairly when it accepted Miss B as guarantor on Mr Ss loan. She 
may be called upon by Buddy Loans to make repayments on a loan she shouldnt be 
guaranteeing. I think she has lost out because Buddy Loans did something wrong, so the 
lender must now put things right for Miss B.
Putting things right
Where I find that a business has done something wrong, Id expect that business  in so far 
as is reasonably practicable  to put the consumer back in the position they would be in now 
if that wrong hadnt taken place. In essence, in this case, this means Buddy Loans putting 
Miss B in the position shed now be in if she hadnt unfairly and unreasonably been accepted 
as a guarantor on this loan.
So Buddy Loans should put things right for Miss B by:
a) Releasing Miss B from any obligations under the guarantee and indemnity 
agreement and then terminating it.
b) Refunding any payments made by Miss B as guarantor. Buddy Loans must add 8%* 
simple interest a year to each of those sums, from the date Miss B paid them to the 
date the refund is paid to her.
c) Removing any information about this loan from Miss Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Buddy Loans to deduct tax from this interest. Buddy 
Loans should give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Bs complaint and direct Advancis Limited trading as 
Buddy Loans to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman