DRN-2916211
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) were unreasonable when reporting a default to the credit reference 
agencies.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Mr Ss situation and I know it will disappoint him, but I agree with 
the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
BPF defaulted Mr Ss account in December 2019 after direct debits stopped and thered 
been no payment received since September 2019. The account was three months in arrears 
when the notice of default was issued. Guidance from the Information Commissioners Office 
suggests that accounts should be defaulted when they are at least three months in arrears 
but no more than six. So, it seems BPF defaulted the account in reasonable time.
Mr S says he didnt know his account was in arrears. He says BPF had the wrong address 
for him. I dont think the evidence suggests that was the case as BPFs system notes show 
that Mr S contacted them in March 2019 changing his address to the one he now lives at 
and the one that they subsequently sent correspondence to including the default notice. 
The system notes also show that at that point Mr S changed his mobile number to the one 
we have for him and that they subsequently sent text messages to that phone about the 
arrears on the account.
Mr S has suggested that he didnt tell BPF hed changed address, but I think its unlikely they 
would have changed his address without authorisation and I think the system notes suggest 
its likely Mr S gave them that authorisation.
Mr S says that BPF changed his address to one he wasnt living at, one beginning with B, 
but that wasnt until after the default had been registered so it cant have affected Mr Ss 
actions surrounding the arrears on the account.
I also think its likely that BPF had the correct mobile number for Mr S as the records confirm 
that. Ive seen records of the text messages that were subsequently sent.
So, I think there is evidence that BPF sent the necessary communications to Mr S at his 
home address and to his phone and, as they didnt hear from Mr S, I dont think they were 
wrong to default his account in December 2019.
Im not therefore asking BPF to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman