DRN-2551223
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy, when it was trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester Building Society.
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 2009. The policy was taken out in 
one of the banks branches and was in Mr Ls name only. It provided him with cover for 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs L didnt 
agree saying, in summary, that:
There was no discussion about the policy being optional. They were told they had to take 
the policy to obtain the mortgage.
Mr L would have received six months full pay followed by 75% pay for an indefinite 
period if he couldnt work due to accident or sickness and he would have been entitled to 
a generous redundancy package. If theyd realised they could have used this option to 
cover the mortgage payments, they wouldnt have taken the PPI. The cover the policy 
offered was less attractive than Mr Ls sick pay entitlement.
Lloyds didnt advise them of options other than the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint for the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs L say the PPI wasnt presented as optional and that they thought they had to 
have it for their mortgage application to succeed. But the policy was taken out in 2009 as a 
stand-alone product, not alongside a mortgage application. Their mortgage had been in 
place since 2003, so they must reasonably have known that they didnt have to have PPI.
Overall, I think it more likely than not that Lloyds made Mr and Mrs L aware that the PPI was 
optional and that they chose to take it.
Lloyds recommended the PPI and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable based on what Ive 
seen of Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances at the time. I say this because:
At the time of the application, Mrs L was not working and so was not eligible for the policy. 
Mr L was solely responsible for the mortgage repayments, so the policy was taken out in his 
name only. He was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the terms and 
conditions.
Mr L told us he would have received six months full pay followed by 75% pay until he 
returned to work if he couldnt work due to sickness or an accident. And that, apart from this, 
he and Mrs L didnt have any other means to meet the mortgage repayments. Ive 
considered this carefully. Whilst Mr L was entitled to generous sick pay, the mortgage was a 
significant long-term financial commitment and Mr and Mrs Ls home was at risk if they didnt 
keep up with the repayments. During the sale of the PPI it was noted that Mr L was 
concerned about how he would meet his mortgage payments if he couldnt work as he was 
the sole wage earner. The PPI would have paid out in addition to his work benefits. This 
would have allowed Mr L to use his employee benefits to cover other living expenses whilst 
he wasnt working. The PPI also covered Mr L, for up to 12 months, if hed become 
unemployed.
So, overall, I dont think Mr Ls existing arrangements made the PPI unsuitable.
Mr L wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such as those 
affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As he could 
have benefitted from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he needed better advice or 
information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
I dont think the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr and Mrs L before they 
agreed to purchase it. I think its possible they werent told how much it would cost each 
month until after the mortgage had started. For this reason, I have considered whether 
clearer information about the cost would have affected Mr and Mrs Ls decision to purchase 
the policy. I've found that theyd chosen to take out the policy and would have known they 
would have to pay something for it. The policy was competitively priced and apparently 
affordable. So I think it unlikely they would have made a different decision if better 
information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information the bank gave Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Lloyds recommendation 
was unsuitable and I dont think Mr and Mrs L would have made a different decision about 
taking out the policy if better information had been provided to them. Overall, I think they 
would still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman