DRN-3664429
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about his travel insurance policy with Aviva Insurance Limited.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr H visited a doctor while abroad. The first medical report, dated 27 January 2022, 
said that Mr H had an allergic conjunctivitis with dry eye, and that he wasnt fit to 
travel. Mr H was prescribed medication. The report also said Mr H needed a review 
in a month. Another report, dated 1 February 2022, said that Mr H had a severe 
infection with corneal ulcer. This report also said that Mr H wasnt fit to travel, he 
needed hospital treatment and to rest for a month. A final report, dated 28 February 
2022, said that Mr H wasnt fit to travel and he needed to rest for another month.
Mr H made a claim to Aviva for the extended stay due to the medical condition  hed 
been due to return to the UK on 1 February 2022. Aviva said that Mr H hadnt got in 
touch with its medical assistance team to authorise the treatment or the extended 
stay. But it said that had Mr H done so, its medical team wouldve said it wasnt 
medically necessary for Mr H to extend his stay due to an allergic conjunctivitis. 
Rather, he shouldve returned to the UK for treatment. Aviva also noted that Mr Hs 
medical costs were below the policy excess.
Avivas chief medical officer (CMO) has since also said that a severe infection with 
corneal ulcer would rarely be a reason for someone to be unfit for air travel  rather, 
this could be managed with medication. Aviva also noted that the medical reports 
didnt give any information supporting that Mr H wasnt fit to fly, or any specifics of the 
treatment required  other than the prescribed medication. So, Aviva still didnt think 
it was medically necessary for Mr H to extend his trip.
Having considered everything, including what Mr H has said about trusting the 
doctors advice, I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Im satisfied Aviva has appropriately reviewed the 
medical reports, and Im persuaded by its reasoning above. So, I dont think theres 
anything else Aviva needs to do, to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman