DRN-2117255
The complaint
Mr F complains that a delay in supplying old credit card account statements, caused by
Lloyds Bank PLC, means that hes missed out on a large payment from the tax authority. He
wants Lloyds to pay him the money that he says hes now unable to claim back.
What happened
Mr F said he needed some bank statements. He wanted these to support a claim for a 
refund from Her Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC). He told us that he asked for 
those statements well in advance, as they can take up to 30 days. But they didnt arrive. So 
he asked again. They didnt arrive again. Mr F asked a third time. Some statements did then 
arrive, but they were the wrong ones. Mr F says he has missed out on his chance to claim a 
tax refund now. The deadline has passed.
Lloyds accepted Mr F had asked for credit card statements some months earlier. It said it
had made some mistakes with what it had sent Mr F. It paid him £275 to say sorry. And it
said if he sent it any official documentation from HMRC, it could consider that too.
Mr F said he was waiting to hear whether he could still get a refund. Our investigator said
that he could talk to Lloyds about that, if he found out that its delay had caused him to lose
out. But we couldnt consider it now, as Lloyds hadnt had a chance to consider whether it
had caused Mr F to lose this money. In the meantime, she thought that what Lloyds had
done was enough.
Mr F said he would send us some further information, and he sent us a number of pieces of
correspondence, including documents from his complaint to HMRC. He said this proved that
Lloyds delay had caused him to miss out on a large refund. But our investigator didnt agree.
She said that a letter Mr F relied on, just recorded Mr Fs belief that Lloyds was to blame. It
didnt say that was actually the reason why Mr F had lost out.
Our investigator wouldnt ask Lloyds to do any more, because she said that what Mr F had
sent us didnt show that his claim was turned down just because of what Lloyds had done. In
the meantime, Lloyds wrote to us to say that it wouldnt talk directly to Mr F any more. It
wanted us to continue to deal with his complaint.
This case was then passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Lloyds did delay in sending Mr F the statements he wanted. But it has paid him £275 
to make up for that. If we set aside for a moment the consequences Mr F says flowed 
from this, then I think thats enough to make up just for the delay in supplying the 
documents. I think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to just this part of Mr 
Fs complaint.
But Mr F firmly believes the delay in getting copies of old credit card statements to 
him has caused him to miss out on a sizeable tax refund. He wants Lloyds to pay him 
what he lost.
Mr F says Lloyds wont pay this. I dont think we have written confirmation of that 
from Lloyds, and it would be more usual for our service to wait for that, before we 
would look at this. But Lloyds has said to our service that it now prefers not to deal 
directly with Mr F, and it would like our service to carry this complaint forward. So I 
have considered all the evidence I have. This includes letters which Mr F has sent us 
from HMRC and the Adjudicators Office (which looks at complaints about HMRC).
Ive considered the documents that Mr F sent through very carefully. I cannot see 
that a delay in supplying credit card statements caused by Lloyds has caused any 
loss to Mr F. Ill explain why Ive reached that conclusion.
Mr F sent us a letter from the Adjudicators Office dated 17 January, looking at a 
complaint that Mr F had made about HMRC. That letter responds to a complaint Mr F 
made on 16 September 2019. It explains that HMRC had made a mistake, but says 
the adjudicator considers the mistake has been put right. The adjudicator states 
HMRC will consider Mr Fs claim for reimbursement of costs, and will respond within 
14 days. It seems to be this reimbursement that Mr F says hes lost out on.
Mr F also sent us a letter from HMRC, dated 21 February. That refers to a letter 
dated 28 January, which we are told sets out HMRCs position on costs. Mr F hasnt 
forwarded that earlier letter of 28 January to us, so I cant see why this claim was 
turned down. The letter he has sent us just says that his complaint about this hasnt 
been upheld by HMRC.
Mr F then sent us a further letter from the Adjudicators Office, dated 10 March. This
summarises his complaint, and records Mr Fs firm belief that the delay caused by 
Lloyds has adversely impacted on his claim for reimbursement of costs. There is, 
however, nothing in this letter or in the other correspondence that Mr F has shared 
with us, to confirm to me that either HMRC or the Adjudicators Office has accepted 
that this delay by Lloyds in supplying credit card statements had any impact on Mr 
Fs claim for costs from HMRC.
The only information I have on why Mr Fs claim for costs was turned down is in the 
10 March letter from the Adjudicators Office. That letter says that HMRCs letter of 
28 January told Mr F they could not accept your claim for reimbursement of 
costs/loss of earnings as they were not directly caused by HMRCs mistakes or 
delays. That doesnt suggest that missing bank statements have affected this 
outcome.
Before I reached this decision, I asked Mr F if he wanted to send us any further
documentation. I also said it would be helpful to see why the statements, which I 
understood had finally been sent to him, couldnt be considered as part of any further 
appeal on compensation, as it appeared that hed been sent the statements in early 
January, and his claim for costs wasnt passed back to HMRC until after that. Mr F 
has told us he didnt actually get the requested documents until June.
Mr F also wanted us to listen to a call recording of a conversation he had with Lloyds. 
He said that would show that Lloyds had accepted that it was responsible for multiple 
failings and delays, and also accepted that this had a significant impact on his tax 
refund claim. I responded, to say that the main issue was that Mr F wanted Lloyds to pay him a large refund he was expecting from HMRC. I explained that to do this, Mr 
F would have to show that it was Lloyds mistake that caused him to lose out. And I 
wasnt yet clear whether anything could confirm that the late statements caused the 
loss to Mr F. I said that was the area where further comments and evidence would be 
most useful.
Mr F considered that this call was relevant, as he said Lloyds had accepted 
responsibility for his losses. Ive now listened to that call. Lloyds does accept that it is 
responsible for delays in responding to his subject access request. However, it 
doesnt accept that this has had a significant impact on his tax refund claim.
More recently, Mr F has also mentioned a letter from Lloyds, which he said would 
accept multiple failings on the part of Lloyds. I understand Mr F now has this letter. I 
havent seen it. But I do think I have sufficient evidence to decide this complaint.
I think Lloyds has already accepted that it repeatedly failed to send Mr F the 
statements he wanted. But I cant fairly and reasonably decide that Lloyds is required 
to pay Mr F the money that he says he missed out on, unless I could also see that 
Lloyds delay in supplying those statements has caused that loss. I would expect the 
evidence to show that to come from HMRC or the Adjudicators Office, not from 
Lloyds. And Ive explained that theres nothing in what I've seen so far to show this.
I know that Mr F will be disappointed, but I dont think Lloyds has to do any more 
now. And that means I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Lloyds didnt reply. Mr F wrote to make some further points. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F was unhappy that our service had issued a provisional decision. He said wed said we 
would wait until we had further documentation from Lloyds, and would tell him when wed 
received a call he wanted us to listen to. It appears as if Mr F feared Id issued my 
provisional decision without listening to that call. I think the decision above makes clear that I 
had listened to it. Im sorry if there has been any confusion over letting Mr F know that we 
did have this evidence.
Mr F said he had a letter from Lloyds apologising for its mistakes and saying it wanted to put 
things right. And he said that if wed listened to the same call as him, Lloyds had clearly 
accepted that its subject access request failings had an effect on his HMRC reimbursement 
claim. He repeated the impact this was having on his health, and said hed attached a letter 
which clarified the statements above.
Mr F included with this letter a copy of a complaint response letter from Lloyds, dated 7 July. 
That does start by saying that Lloyds agrees with Mr Fs complaint, and wants to put it right. 
But it is clear from the rest of the letter that this wish to put things right does not refer to 
Mr Fs complaint that Lloyds has caused a significant loss by preventing him from claiming 
money back from HMRC. 
The letter sets out that Mr F has made four subject access requests. The first request, in 
November 2019, is the one he originally complained to our service about. It wasnt processed within 30 days. I understand that the second and subsequent requests are the 
subject of a separate complaint by Mr F, which our service is considering. 
This letter accepts that Lloyds has repeatedly failed to meet deadlines for Mr Fs requests. It 
doesnt accept anywhere that this has had any effect on Mr Fs claim with HMRC. Ive not 
seen any other correspondence which does that either. And I listened carefully to the call 
Mr F wanted us to listen to. Again, Lloyds accepts it has repeatedly failed to meet deadlines 
for supplying Mr Fs statements and other requested documents. It doesnt accept that this 
has had any effect on Mr Fs claim with HMRC. 
Mr F then wrote again. He repeated that he couldnt attach important information to his 
HMRC claim because Lloyds hadnt supplied it. He said he could see Lloyds didnt 
understand the implications of what it had done, and thought it had just failed to supply 
information to him within a deadline. Mr F repeated his assertion that Lloyds had, by failing 
to supply this information, cost him thousands of pounds. 
Mr F said that Id missed the point, hed had multiple failings in his DSAR requests for bank 
statements and credit card statements, which wouldve shown that purchases and payments 
had taken place. Mr F said that this wouldve shown when he fell into financial hardship, and 
when he purchased certain business related products, and when financial payments were 
made. Mr F repeated that Lloyds had accepted it had made mistakes and said it wanted to 
put things right. He wasnt sure if Id understood the significance of this either. He thought it 
was clear how this had affected him, and asked if it would help if the Information 
Commissioners Office confirmed the breach of its regulations.
Id like to reassure Mr F that I have understood what he asserts has happened. Its just that 
he hasnt shown us any evidence to support what he says went wrong with his HMRC claim. 
I set out for Mr F in correspondence prior to my provisional decision, and in the provisional 
decision itself, that the main issue was that Mr F wanted Lloyds to pay him a large refund he 
was expecting from HMRC. I explained that before I could ask Lloyds to pay that, Mr F would 
have to show that it was Lloyds mistake that caused him to lose out. I have repeatedly 
stressed that this is the area where further comments and evidence would be most useful.
Mr F has chosen not to send our service the letter of 28 January from HMRC. I understand 
from other correspondence he has shared, that this is the letter setting out why his claim to 
HMRC was turned down. The only information we have on this is contained in a later letter, 
which states that the claim was turned down because they could not accept your claim for 
reimbursement of costs/loss of earnings as they were not directly caused by HMRCs 
mistakes or delays.
Ive considered everything that Mr F has sent to our service for this complaint, and further 
documentation which Mr F has sent for a separate but related complaint with our service 
(some of which he appears to have heavily redacted). There is no visible suggestion in any 
documentation I have seen that Mr Fs HMRC claim failed because he couldnt provide 
evidence of payments hed made. HMRC hasnt said it doesnt believe that Mr F spent 
certain amounts of money, or bought certain items. As far as I can tell from the letters I have, 
HMRC has said that it doesnt think what went wrong was its fault. 
For these reasons, Im not able to accept that Lloyds delay in supplying documentation 
requested under a DSAR has had any effect on Mr Fs claim to HMRC. I understand how 
strongly Mr F feels about this, but Ive seen no evidence to support what he says about this. 
Ive also seen no evidence that Lloyds has accepted it has affected Mr Fs claim to HMRC, 
or that it wants to compensate him for any such loss. I know that Mr F now asserts that the delay in supplying documentation has had other 
effects on him. That is the subject of a separate complaint. 
This case considers Mr Fs complaint on two points. One, that Lloyds was late in supplying 
documentation for his request of November 2019. And two, that this affected his claim with 
HMRC for reimbursement of costs, which was considered in late 2019 and early 2020. 
I understand that the later requests Mr F made for documents from Lloyds, in January 
onwards, wouldve been unlikely to be processed in time for the deadline Mr F faced for his 
HMRC claim. So those later requests arent relevant to his claim with HMRC for 
reimbursement of costs. 
Ive explained above why the second point of this complaint has not been upheld. And on the 
first point, I said in my provisional decision that I thought Lloyds payment of £275 was 
enough to make up for that, so I didnt think Lloyds had to do any more. 
Ive reconsidered this case fully, but I still dont think it should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman