DRN-2562658
The complaint
Ms H complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Britannia (Co-op) has not 
supported her when shes tried to make changes to her mortgage. 
What happened
Ms H holds an interest only mortgage, which she took out with her ex-husband in 2005. This 
was initially on a part interest and part repayment basis but the whole balance was switched 
to interest only shortly afterwards. 
Ms H and her ex-husband divorced some years ago and whilst it was agreed that she would 
keep the house and have sole benefit of any sale, the property and mortgage account 
remained in joint names. 
In December 2018, Ms H contacted Co-op to request a term extension and to ask for the 
joint parties name to be removed from the mortgage. Co-op declined the application to 
extend the mortgage whilst it was on an interest only basis. It said it would consider an 
application to switch to a repayment mortgage but would need the consent of the other party 
to do this. Around June 2019, Ms H provided Co-op with a copy of a court order from her 
divorce which showed that the property would be taken by her. Co-op considered this but 
said it would still need her ex-husbands consent before removing him from the mortgage. 
Ms H says that Co-op hasnt supported her and that she cant do anything while her ex-
husband remains on the mortgage. Co-op said it would exhaust its contact and trace 
process to try to obtain consent. As this was ultimately not possible, it offered to consider an 
application from Ms H to change to a repayment mortgage with her signature only, but with 
the mortgage remaining in joint names. Ms H was unhappy with this proposal.
She complains, in summary, that Co-op:
wont remove the joint party from the mortgage
told her to keep the joint party on the mortgage and apply to make the changes  
which she says is fraud
failed to provide information requested under a Data Subject Access Request 
(DSAR) 
wont send her a letter to say that Co-ops attempts to contact the other party were 
unsuccessful
provided poor customer service with a lack of communication, failure to return calls 
and didnt provide a dedicated team considering her vulnerability
She raised complaints throughout the course of this matter and Co-op replied to these in 
final response letters. 
Ms Hs complaint that Co-op declined her request to extend the term of her mortgage on an 
interest only basis was answered in a final response letter on 27 June 2019. This letter gave 
six months to refer the complaint to this service if she was unhappy with the response. As 
the matter was not referred in that timeframe, Im unable to consider this part of the 
complaint. 
 
As our investigator has explained, well look at events that happened after 
11 November 2019, until the complaint was referred to this service. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld. Ms H 
disagreed and asked an ombudsman to look at the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to learn of the difficulties that Ms H has faced and, having read through the file 
and noted what she has told us, Im conscious of how difficult things have been for her. I can 
understand why the issues shes complaining about are so important. Ms H has been 
proactive in trying to find a resolution before her mortgage term ends and I can appreciate 
how frustrating and distressing this has all been for her. In this decision, Ill be looking at 
whether Co-op has treated her fairly in light of these difficulties.
Transfer of equity and court order 
When Ms H and her ex-husband separated some years ago, she says that it was agreed 
that the property would pass to her and that her ex-husband took other assets. A court order 
was issued in 2007 which required Ms H: to use her best endeavours to procure the release 
of the Applicant within 56 days from the date of this Order from any liability under the 
Mortgage secured upon (the property) and to indemnify the Applicant against all such 
liability.
I understand that Ms H has remained in the property and paid the mortgage since then. She 
says that shes previously made attempts to take the mortgage into her sole name but hasnt 
been able to due to affordability reasons.  
The property and mortgage has remained in joint names, Ms H says that Co-op should 
accept this court order, but it has said that it is not able to remove her ex-husband without 
his consent. I can appreciate that Ms H is frustrated that Co-op will not remove him based on 
the court order and sympathise with the difficulties and upset this has caused. 
But I dont think that Co-op has treated her unfairly in this regard. This court order was 
issued in relation to the agreement reached when Ms H and her ex-husband divorced. Co-op 
is not bound by this court order and the order does not automatically release her ex-husband 
from the joint and several liability under the mortgage. Rather, it suggested that Ms H use 
her best endeavours to release him. And it does seem that she has done so  as shes said 
she has made attempts in the past to transfer the mortgage into her sole name but 
unfortunately hasnt been able to due to affordability reasons. The order also instructs the 
applicant (Ms Hs ex-husband) to transfer his legal interest but this also doesnt appear to 
have happened. 
As the property and mortgage remains in joint names, Co-op still has a responsibility to the 
joint party as any changes made could also affect him. For example, the outstanding amount 
is owed jointly and severally which means that this could be shared between the parties or, if 
Ms H is unable to pay, Co-op are still within their rights to pursue her ex-husband for 
payment of any outstanding balance. Co op also suggested that Ms H could use the Transfer of Equity process, but the joint party 
would need to sign the transfer forms and solicitors would need to be involved because he 
remains on the title register for the property. I understand that Ms H has asked her solicitor 
to try this route. It may be necessary to apply to court to have her ex-husband removed  Ms 
Hs solicitor can advise on this matter. 
Co-op offered to exhaust its contact and trace process to try to gain consent from the other 
party and I think it made reasonable efforts to do so. It decided not to send a field agent due 
to the response it received, and I dont think this was unreasonable. Instead, it said that it 
would consider Ms Hs application to make changes to the mortgage with only her signature. 
This is a deviation from Co-ops usual procedure in recognition of the situation that Ms H 
was in and I think that this was Co-op trying to help Ms H, considering her difficult 
circumstances.
I can understand Ms Hs reservations about proceeding with this proposal, but I dont think 
there was anything further that Co-op could do here and, I dont agree that this was Co-op 
attempting to commit fraud in any way, but rather an attempt to help Ms H by allowing this.
At the time that this complaint was referred, an application to make changes to the mortgage 
had not been made or considered. But Co-op had asked her to provide information to show 
how affordable the mortgage would be in her sole name. I dont think that it was 
unreasonable to request this as, it would need to assess whether any change would be in 
Ms Hs best interests. 
From what Ive seen, she has been relying on benefits to pay the interest owed on her 
mortgage. And due to a change in 2018, these payments require a charge to be recorded 
against the property, so this money is effectively loaned and paid back when the property is 
sold. This means that a borrowers equity in the property erodes over time as the longer 
these payments are made, the greater the loan becomes which needs to be paid when the 
property is sold. So, if these payments were to continue for some time, it might not be in Ms 
Hs best interests to extend the term or allow changes. Its also worth noting that there is no 
guarantee that the payments would continue and so, if Ms H was unable to make the 
payments, the account could fall into arrears.
 
If she has concerns about the outcome of an application or feels that she has been treated 
unfairly in this regard then she can raise this as a new complaint. 
Data Subject Access Request (DSAR)
Ms H complains that Co-op failed to provide information requested as part of her DSAR. Its 
not the role of this service to decide if a business is complying with data protection law. 
I can appreciate Ms Hs frustrations, but it is not for me to make a determination on whether 
Co-op should send information. Ms H can refer her concerns about this matter to the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) for an answer on this. 
Letter
Co-op has said that it wont send a letter to say that its attempts to contact the other party to 
the account were unsuccessful as it does not get involved in marital disputes. I can 
understand Ms Hs frustrations at this turn of phrase  shes rightly said that they divorced 
some years ago. I see Ms Hs reasons for asking this information, but its not for me to tell 
Co-op to send a letter to her which relates to information about another party. Whilst I appreciate that this is in respect of Ms H trying to make changes to the mortgage, as 
Mr H remains named, he is still Co-ops customer and it is for them to decide whether to 
provide this. 
Customer service
Ms H has also said she feels she experienced delays and had to speak to a number of 
people in different departments. I can understand that this has been a difficult and frustrating 
time for Ms H and from reviewing the contact notes, can see she has made several calls to 
Co-op. 
Co-op has said that, due to the coronavirus pandemic, it was receiving a record number of 
calls and so delays were happening. Around the time that Ms H was making these calls in 
2020, businesses such as Co-op were adapting to working from home at short notice and so 
I dont think its unreasonable for this to have had an impact on waiting times and some 
service levels. But Co-op acknowledged that she didnt receive a call back when she was 
promised one so apologised and paid Ms H £30 compensation for this. I think this is fair in 
the circumstances. 
Ms H also raises concerns that she was not provided with a pre-paid envelope to post a 
copy of her court order to. Co-op apologised and paid £15 for the inconvenience. I find this 
sum fair to cover the cost involved and in recognition of this error. 
Ms H has also said that she should have been handled by a vulnerable customer team. Im 
aware that some organisations offer this service and its becoming more commonplace now 
as understanding and awareness increases of people who may be vulnerable because of 
their circumstances or heath  but this isnt yet a regulatory requirement. 
It doesnt appear that Co-op was able to offer a dedicated team at the time but agents 
reassured her that they were trained to help customers in vulnerable situations. I can 
appreciate that this was frustrating for Ms H and upsetting but I think that Co-op tried to help 
by offering to trace the joint party and when this was not successful, was prepared to 
consider an application with just Ms Hs signature. Because of this, I dont think Co-op has 
treated her unfairly and so I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
Since the complaint has been with this service, Ms H has raised further concerns in this 
regard and said that she has been discriminated against by Co-op. Im sorry to learn of this. 
Co-op has confirmed that it will consider this as a separate complaint, and if she is unhappy 
with the response, she can refer the matter to this service. 
End of term
Ms Hs mortgage term ended in May 2020. Ive explained why I cant look at her complaint 
about the refusal to extend the term in 2019. But due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the 
regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  released guidance to help borrowers at 
this difficult time. This guidance states that, for borrowers whose mortgages mature after 
20 March 2020, lenders should allow a delayed repayment of the outstanding balance until 
31 October 2021. 
Ms Hs mortgage falls within this timeframe and so she will have this extra time to make 
plans to address the outstanding balance. 
Next stepsWhilst I appreciate how difficult this has been for Ms H, I would encourage her to keep an 
open dialogue with Co-op to address the outstanding balance, as well as using this time to 
seek any legal and financial advice she needs. I expect Co-op to treat Ms H fairly and give 
due consideration to any proposals over this time, keeping in mind the difficulties shes 
experienced.
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Ms H but, having considered everything, 
Im afraid I dont think that I can fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against The Co-operative Bank Plc 
trading as Britannia.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman