DRN-4005013
The complaint
Ms E complains about Nationwide Building Society, formerly Aegon, referred to as the 
business.
Shes unhappy about the loss in value of her cash ISA following the transfer from her Stocks 
and Shares ISA, and believes the business is responsible for this.  
To put things right, shed like compensation for the losses claimed.  
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
The business isnt responsible for the loss in value of the ISA which can happen 
during a transfer owing to external factors. 
In this instance Ms E decided to sell down her investments and transfer to cash due 
to market volatility, and theres likely to have been market movement that resulted in 
the drop in value. 
The transfer request was made on 25 August 2022 and completed by 14 September 
2022. It was completed within 30 days as per HMRC guidelines, so the business 
hasnt caused a delay in the transfer. 
Shes seen nothing to suggest that the business made any errors, or in any way was 
responsible for the drop in value of Ms Es cash ISA. 
Since the business hasnt made a mistake, resulting in financial loss, she cant say 
that the business is responsible for any losses claimed.   
Ms E disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She 
says she was told lies by staff dealing with her ISA, and that she wasnt told that the process 
would take three weeks. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Ms E says, I cant safely say that 
the business behaved unreasonably, therefore, I cant blame the business for any financial 
loss she may have suffered. 
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Ms Es strength of feeling about this matter. She has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope she wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by her and the business, and reach what I think is 
an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
In this instance, I dont uphold the complaint, in brief, for the following reasons: 
The business isnt responsible for any financial loss that mightve occurred when this 
results from delays caused by matters that are outside of the businesss control and 
the business hasnt done anything wrong - which I believe is the case here. 
I think its likely that Ms E informed her IFA at some point between 20 and 23 August 
2022 that she wanted to cancel her investment. She, like her husband, who has a 
separate but similar complaint, was probably worried about volatility. 
On 25 August 2022 the business was notified of her intentions, and an application 
was made for the cash ISA. At the time her ISA was valued at £121,527.83 but Ive 
seen no evidence that she was guaranteed thats what shed receive upon 
completion of the transfer.  
Given her concerns about volatility, its likely that a decision was made by her to sell 
down her investments, in consultation with her IFA. In any case, the transfer was 
done as per her instructions  at a time when the markets happened to be volatile  
and without any advice from the business. 
In any case, I note it was agreed that the ISA transfer would be best done at branch, 
so that she could open a cash ISA and transfer her existing ISA. Despite what Ms E 
says, Im not persuaded that she was told, or led to believe, that the cash ISA would 
be set up and the transfer would complete there and then. On balance, I think its 
likely she misunderstood what might happen and the time it was likely to take.  
I note on 6 September 2022, the business sold the investment for £118,751.67, and 
the cash was received into the ISA on 12 September 2022. I dont think the timeline 
leading to this was unreasonable. Im aware that there are matters within this process 
that are beyond the control of the business. 
I note the money (with interest) was transferred to the business the next day (on 13 
September 2022) and then transferred to Ms Es ISA the very next day (on 14 
September 2023), in line with the businesss undertaking to include interest from the 
date the application was received. 
I appreciate Ms E is unhappy about the value of her cash ISA  compared to the 
value of her ISA prior to being transferred to cash. But despite what she says, there 
was no guarantee that she would get a specific sum, or the same value quoted 
earlier, once the transfer was complete. 
The value of the investment is dependent on the financial markets and not something 
that the business can predict or control. Its likely that the business notified her of the 
value of the ISA when the instructions were received, and she assumed thats what 
shed get upon completion. Im mindful the business strongly denies that Ms E 
wouldve been guaranteed a fixed value.
Im mindful that the guidance allows that a transfer can generally take up to 30 days, 
and the value of the investment can fluctuate during this period. Its also possible that 
it can take longer, but if it does this doesnt mean that the business is automatically at fault. 
In other words, there were some delays in this case, but I cant safely say that there 
was any wrongdoing by the business, therefore I cant say that the business is 
responsible for any losses claimed. 
Its possible that Ms E wasnt told the process could take a set number of days, but I 
think its unlikely this was the case and/or that she was told the transfer would be 
instant  Ive seen correspondence that would suggest it could take 15 days and if it 
didnt the business would still pay interest from the day the request was made. So, in 
the absence of evidence to the contrary, I cant safely say that the business gave Ms 
E incorrect information. 
On balance, I think its unlikely given that she and /or her husband were speaking to 
the business and had an IFA working on her/their behalf, that she thought the 
transfer would be immediate. 
Despite what Ms E says, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think the 
transfer was completed within a reasonable amount of time. 
Like the investigator, I also cant see that the business has done anything wrong. 
Therefore, I dont think its responsible for any losses Ms E may have sustained.   
I appreciate Ms E will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate her frustration, Im not persuaded to require the business to do anything. In other 
words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this 
complaint and give her what she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman