DRN-3711848
The complaint
Mr B is complaining about delays in transferring his individual savings account (ISA), self- 
invested pension plan (SIPP) and trading account from another provider (Company A) to 
Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL).
What happened
In late April 2021, Mr B wanted to transfer a large number of his unit holdings across his 
three accounts from Company A to IISL. He requested the transfers and then waited for 
them to complete. On each account, the transfer took roughly two months  which was 
longer than Mr B was expecting.
Mr B complained to both Company A and IISL while the transfer was still in progress. He 
was upset about how long the transfer was taking, saying he thought an in-specie ISA 
transfer was supposed to complete within 30 days, and that the transfers of his SIPP and 
trading account were similarly delayed.
Company A responded to the complaint in late July 2021, after the transfers were complete. 
They said they were sorry they hadnt been able to fully complete the transfers of the ISA 
and trading account within the six-week timeframe theyd expect but noted most of the stock 
had been transferred within that time. And they said theyd refunded around £100 of 
management fees in acknowledgment of the delays. They also paid Mr B £100 in recognition 
of the inconvenience Mr B had experienced because of the delays.
In relation to the SIPP, Company A initially said they didnt receive the request from IISL until 
the end of May 2021. They said the transfer was then processed efficiently and completed in 
late June  so any delays in the funds appearing in Mr Bs account with IISL were due to the 
allocation of units on IISLs side. After a query from Mr B, Company A corrected their 
previous response. They said theyd actually received the request a couple of weeks earlier, 
in mid-May  but the transfer was still completed within six weeks. They paid Mr B an 
additional £100 for the additional inconvenience  so a total of £200 plus the refund of fees.
IISL responded to the complaint in mid-July 2021. They said that the delays had been 
caused by Company A  they said Company A hadnt sent instructions to the fund managers 
and hadnt provided deal references to IISL to allow IISL to properly track the transfers. After 
Mr B involved our service, IISL reviewed the complaint again. They said theyd caused a 
delay of five working days on the SIPP and offered £100 as compensation.
Mr B wasnt happy so he brought complaints to our service about both Company A and IISL. 
He felt that both businesses were blaming each other and coming to our service was the 
only way to get to the bottom of it. Mr B said there had been an extended period where both 
businesses said they didnt have his funds. He wasnt able to monitor the performance of his 
holdings, or trade. And he spent a lot of time chasing both businesses to get the funds 
transferred. So he wanted an explanation, apology and additional compensation to 
acknowledge this.
Our investigator looked into things. He said he could see thered been delays on both sides. 
He thought Company A had done enough to compensate Mr B for their delays but that IISL 
needed to pay Mr B an additional £100 for the inconvenience caused by their errors. He said 
he wouldnt suggest an award for Mr B being unable to monitor performance or trade 
because Mr B could have called Company A to trade had he wanted to. Mr B wasnt happy 
with our investigators view so he asked for an ombudsmans decision  and its come to me.
In his reply to our investigators view, Mr B said there were some funds to which hed had no 
access because Company A were saying the funds had been transferred while IISL said 
they hadnt. Mr B said this was during a period of high volatility when hed wanted to sell at 
least 50% of his holding but wasnt able to. So he felt the delays had cost him a significant 
loss in terms of the valuation of his holding.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Although Im aware Mr B might be 
disappointed with the outcome, Im agreeing with our investigator in respect of IISL. Im 
upholding the complaint and directing IISL to pay an additional £100 to Mr B. Ill explain why 
below. Ive considered representations and evidence from both businesses in writing this 
decision.
What went wrong
Mr Bs transfer involved moving units in a large number of different funds and stocks from 
one provider to another. The process is quite complicated and requires communication 
between the two companies, the consumer, the fund manager for each fund, and also the 
custodian working for IISL. With such a large number of individual transfers to be made, its 
perhaps not surprising that some small errors were made. For example, IISL provided some 
incorrect re-registration details for a couple of funds. And Company A got the conversion 
instructions wrong for one fund. But the problems with Mr Bs transfers go beyond these 
minor errors.
Ive been through the timeline and documentation in detail. Although Mr B has complained 
about the overall timeline and delays, it seems his primary concern was individual transfers 
of funds which didnt go well. Ive considered these below:
 Fund B  these units were transferred out of Mr Bs Company A SIPP on 10 June but 
didnt appear in his IISL SIPP until almost a month later. I can see Company A 
provided details of the transfer to IISL several times, including on 18 June, the day 
after Mr B told Company A the units hadnt appeared in his IISL account. The 
problem seems to have been that the units werent allocated promptly by IISLs 
custodian. Its fair to say IISL should have resolved this on or very soon after 18 
June. Because they didnt, Mr B didnt have access to these funds for around three 
weeks.
 Fund F  after an initial issue with IISL providing incorrect re-registration details for 
this fund, Company A transferred the units out on 2 June. But they didnt appear in 
Mr Bs IISL accounts for around three weeks. As with Fund B, the problem seems to 
have been with the allocation of units by IISLs custodian  so, again, its fair to say 
IISL should have resolved this sooner.
 Fund L  Mr B held units in this fund in both his ISA and his trading account. At one 
stage the funds disappeared from what Mr B could see on his Company A account  
but then they didnt appear in his IISL account. A few days later they reappeared in 
his Company A account. Company A apologised and said this was an administrative error and was visual only  the funds were actually in his account throughout the 
period even though Mr B couldnt see them. However, there was another issue with 
the units in this fund - they werent transferred until much later than most of the 
others. The fund manager needed confirmation from IISL as well as Company A and 
IISL didnt provide this promptly. I can see Company A were asking IISL to provide 
the counterparty acceptance from 11 June onwards but IISL were slow to provide the 
requested confirmation  again causing delays.
So, in summary, IISL made three errors (in addition to the one theyve already apologised 
for)  not allocating Fund B or Fund F promptly to Mr Bs account, and not providing the 
counterparty confirmation to the fund manager in respect of Fund L.
Putting things right
Mr Bs said the transfer was extremely stressful because there was an extended period 
during which both businesses said they didnt have his funds. And he feels that hes lost out 
financially because he couldnt monitor performance or trade those units. He also spent a lot 
of time chasing both businesses to get the funds transferred.
As a service we consider financial loss, and compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Ive looked carefully at the correspondence and Mr Bs testimony and I cant consider asking 
either business to compensate Mr B for any financial loss in relation to not being able to 
trade during the transfer. This would apply only to those units which went missing  Mr B 
could have traded any of the other units throughout the transfer as most of the funds 
transferred across very quickly. Throughout his correspondence with both businesses Mr B 
only made one reference to wanting to trade  and this wasnt until 6 July, just a couple of 
days before the final units were allocated to his account. Theres no indication of quantities 
or prices. And he didnt make any trades for several months once the transfers were 
completed  so there isnt enough evidence for me to say he would have traded the missing 
units if they hadnt gone missing.
Ive thought about the distress and inconvenience Mr Bs experienced. Transferring such a 
significant portfolio was always going to cause some stress and inconvenience. And I can 
see Mr B chose to involve himself in the detail of the transfer on a day to day basis so it can 
be hard to tell how much inconvenience each business actually caused Mr B.
Looking at what IISL could have done better  Ive thought about each in turn:
 The delays in allocating units in Fund B and Fund F to Mr Bs accounts  Mr B could 
reasonably have expected these units to appear in his IISL accounts shortly after 
they left his Company A accounts. Instead they took three to four weeks. IISL caused 
around three weeks worry and inconvenience for Mr B as he spent quite a bit of time 
chasing them up.
 The delay in providing counterparty acceptance to the fund manager in relation to 
Fund L  although this delayed the completion of the transfer, Mr B had access to the 
funds throughout the process. Its clear from the correspondence that Mr B was less 
concerned about these units but he was still inconvenienced by the delay to the 
transfer.
Taking all of this together, Im satisfied £200 is a fair and reasonable amount to compensate 
Mr B for the distress and inconvenience IISL have caused him  although it was a significant 
portfolio, he was only impacted by IISLs errors for around three weeks. IISL have already 
offered Mr B £100  so, as our investigator suggested, Im directing them to pay him an 
additional £100.My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. Interactive Investor Services 
Limited need to pay him an additional £200. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman