DRN-1307391
 
The complaint
Mrs B says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny (Sunny), irresponsibly 
lent to her. Mrs B says Sunny shouldnt have lent to her as she already had money problems 
and couldnt afford to make the repayments on the loans 
What happened
Mrs B says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny (Sunny), irresponsibly 
lent to her. Mrs B says Sunny shouldnt have lent to her as she already had money problems 
and couldnt afford to make the repayments on the loans 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs B could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mrs B could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Bs complaint. After doing so I dont think Sunny was 
wrong to lend to Mrs B. Ill explain why.
Given what Mrs B told Sunny about her income, her history with the business and the 
repayment amounts, I dont think it would have been proportionate for Sunny to have asked 
Mrs B for further information that would be needed to show that the lending was 
unsustainable for her. 
For all the loan applications Mrs B confirmed that her monthly income was £1,933 and her 
monthly expenditure was £1,200 - £1,300. This left Mrs B with a disposable income each 
month of around £600 - £700 compared to the maximum monthly loan repayments (when all 
three loans were running) of £113. So, I dont think there would have been any reason for 
Sunny to have looked further into Mrs Gs financial circumstances at such an early period of 
her borrowing relationship. 
Sunny has told us of the credit checks it carried out at the beginning of its relationship with 
Mrs B. Mrs B has been able to give us a copy of her credit report and bank statements from 
the time of the borrowing and its clear from the statements that Mrs B was using other short-
term credit providers. But as Ive said above, at the beginning of a borrowing relationship I 
think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. And Im also aware that 
the information a prospective lender can obtain form a credit check isnt necessarily the 
same as the information Mrs B may have seen from her own credit report. 
Ive also looked at the pattern of lending Mrs B had with Sunny to see if there was a point at 
which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further loans were unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful so it shouldnt have given Mrs B any further loans. 
But given the particular circumstances of Mrs Bs case, I dont think this point was reached. 
There were three loans over a period of one month and the amounts borrowed were 
decreasing. So, I dont think that the pattern of lending in itself was such that Sunny should 
have realised that Mrs B may have been struggling with her finances and the loans were 
becoming unsustainable. 
Its possible that Mrs Bs financial circumstances werent correctly reflected in the information 
she provided, or the information Sunny obtained as a result of the credit checks. And Mrs Bs 
actual financial position may well have been apparent if further information  such as bank 
statements or more in-depth credit checks  had been obtained.
But Sunny could only make a decision based on the information it had available at the time. 
And as it was still in the early stages of the lending relationship, I dont think it reached the 
stage where there was a greater risk of the loans being unsustainable for Mrs B. In these 
circumstances, I dont think Sunny needed to take further steps to verify the information 
provided  such as asking Mrs B for evidence of her income and outgoing which Sunny 
could have gathered from her bank statement or copies of any bills, as examples. Overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Sunny did for these loans were 
proportionate. I think its decision to lend to Mrs B was reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman