DRN-4209596
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as More Th>n 
(RSA) handled his claim on his home insurance policy. 
Mr S has been represented by a family member throughout this complaint. However for 
ease, Ive referred only to Mr S in this decision. All references include the actions of his 
representative. 
What happened
Mr S had home insurance that was underwritten by RSA. In July 2019 he made a claim after 
noticing cracking at his property. RSA accepted the claim and in the months that followed, 
the issue was determined to be subsidence caused by a nearby tree. The tree was owned 
by a third party and RSA contacted them in December 2019 to make them aware and ask 
that the tree was removed. It was subsequently removed in March 2020. 
Following this a scope of works was issued by the contractors in April that year. This was 
based on their first visit at the start of the claim and Mrs S said it was no longer relevant as 
the damaged had worsened since then. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the contractors were 
unable to re-attend the property until June 2020. 
Following this visit, it took many months for the scope of work to be issued by RSA. And by 
December 2020 there had been no progress with the claim. Mr S called RSA to explain that 
there was a leak through his extension roof due to the cracks. RSA agreed to carry out 
temporary repairs, which were completed that month. 
However the second scope of works wasnt received until February 2021. And by this time, 
the condition of the property had worsened again, so another visit was necessary to update 
it. This was arranged for March 2021. However due to disagreements about the work 
required, the scope of work wasnt agreed until September that year. 
In December 2021 there was a pre-start meeting with the contractors. However early in 2022 
the contractors told RSA that they wouldnt be able to fulfil the job. RSA therefore had to 
source a new contractor to complete the job. It took many months for this to be confirmed 
and it wasnt until September 2022 that a new contractor attended Mr S property to scope 
the work for themselves. 
During this time Mr S had become very unhappy with how the claim had been handled. It 
had been three years since he raised the claim with no meaningful progress towards a 
repair. He made a complaint in June 2022. 
RSA responded in January 2023 and upheld the complaint. It said it agreed there had been 
unacceptable delays. It offered £2,000 compensation to apologise for these. It also said it 
would pay 50% of his heating bills from January 2022, to make up for the extra he was 
spending due to the cracks. 
Mr S didnt think this was sufficient. He said there were five people living in the property and 
the £2,000 wasnt enough to recognise the distress suffered by them all. He brought his 
complaint to this service. Our investigator thought RSAs offer of £2,000 was a fair one. 
As Mr S didnt agree, he asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr S claim is still ongoing. However this service can only review complaints 
that have already been considered by the business in question. So as part of this complaint, 
I am only considering matters up to the date of RSAs final response, issued in January 
2023. 
After reviewing the correspondence and claim notes throughout the life of this claim, I agree 
it has been dealt with poorly. While subsidence claims, by their nature, can take a long time 
to resolve  often years. During the time I have reviewed there has been very little 
meaningful progress on the claim. And Mr S and his family were not much closer to a 
resolution over three years after raising it. 
When considering how a business should put things right, I can only consider the impact of 
delays that were outside of their control. And I can see there were some things that RSA 
couldnt have avoided. For example the small wait for the tree to be removed and the impact 
of the Covid-19 pandemic that took place during this claim. However on reviewing everything 
these factors only had a small impact on the claim overall, and if RSA had more proactively 
moved the claim forward, it should have been resolved much sooner.
The main avoidable delays I have identified are as follows: 
Every time a visit was completed by a contractor, it took many months for the scope 
to be received, reviewed and shared with Mr S. And this led to, on a number of 
occasions, the scope being out of date by the time it was provided to him. This 
created further delays as the scope needed to be re-done three times during this 
period. 
Mr S had to go to some lengths to demonstrate that the scopes didnt cover all the 
required work. And each time it took a number of months for RSA to agree to an 
additional visit and for the work to be re-assessed. This shouldnt have been 
necessary, and had action been taken more swiftly, this could have led to the work 
starting soon after the tree removal in March 2020. Yet in January 2023 work was yet 
to begin. 
The fact that the contractors announced they were unable to fulfil the job in March 
2022 would have caused RSA difficulties and caused delays. However RSA took 
some time deciding what to do next. And when a new contractor was selected it took 
three months for RSA to answer its queries around the scope of works, which 
delayed matters further.
Based on this, I think RSA caused some significant delays on the claim. Even when factors 
outside of its control are considered, its likely the work on the claim could have begun at 
least a year, possibly two earlier than the date of the final response.
I have therefore considered the impact these delays have had on Mr S. During this time, I 
can see that he has had to repeatedly chase RSA for updates on progress of the claim. And has gone to some lengths to demonstrate the worsening condition of his property and that 
the scope of works werent sufficient for the repairs required. Based on his efforts, the scope 
of works increased by around £28,000. However this would have been both distressing and 
inconvenient for Mr S.
Further, he was having to live in his property with worsening cracks for three years, with only 
a small temporary repair being carried out during this time. This would have been very 
distressing. And, for a period of time, the door to the bathroom was unable to shut fully. This 
would have been very inconvenient when there were five people living at the property.
Mr S has also explained that he has a medical condition that already causes him some 
distress, so RSAs poor handling of the claim would have no doubt had a greater impact 
because of this.
Based on this, I think RSAs offer of £2,000 is a fair level of compensation considering the 
significant distress and inconvenience it has caused. And this is in line with what I would 
have directed if it hadnt made an offer.
I understand Mr S comments about other family members in the property. This service can 
only award compensation to the person named on the policy. Therefore we can only 
consider the impact the matter had on that person. However I appreciate that the impact on 
his family members would have led to a greater impact overall on Mr S, as it would have 
been distressing for him to experience. And I have considered this as part of this complaint. 
But I think RSA has offered a fair award based on this.
I note RSA has also offered to pay 50% of Mr S bills from January 2022. Considering the 
likely draughts created by the cracks, I think this is fair in the circumstances.
Based on all the evidence, while I can see RSA has provided poor service and caused Mr S 
some significant distress and inconvenience, I think by offering £2,000 compensation it has 
done enough to apologise for these. I therefore wont ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman