DRN-3193626
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as M, complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc treated it unfairly 
by declining its application for a Bounce Back Loan. 
The complaint is brought on Ms behalf by its director, Mr G.
What happened
M held a business bank account with Barclays and applied to the bank for a Bounce Back 
Loan (BBL) in April 2021.
As part of the BBL Scheme criteria, applicants needed to have been trading prior to 1 March 
2020 and could claim for 25% of their annual turnover between a minimum of £2,000 to a 
maximum of £50,000. When Barclays reviewed the application, the bank said that it couldnt 
see any turnover going through Ms business account nor could it confirm that M was trading 
before 1 March 2020. Barclays asked Mr G for bank statements to show M met the BBL 
Schemes eligibility criteria. However Mr G said he was unable to provide this, so Barclays 
declined Ms application.
Mr G didnt think this was fair. He said Ms turnover was through shares and hed provided 
the bank with a letter explaining the share payment and other evidence to support Ms 
trading activity. So he made a complaint.
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. The bank said it was unable to accept the evidence Mr 
G had provided for Ms turnover and proof of trading, and its decision remained unchanged.
Mr G didnt think M was being treated fairly, so he asked this service to look into Ms 
complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Barclays decision 
to decline Ms application was reasonable as Mr G hadnt provided the evidence needed to 
show M met the Schemes eligibility criteria. She acknowledged Mr G had now provided a 
tax document, but she noted this hadnt been given to the bank at the time.
Mr G didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at Ms complaint. So the case has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Applicants had to meet certain criteria to be eligible for a BBL, which included the 
requirement to have been carrying on business on 1 March 2020. In addition to the Scheme 
criteria, there were checks that had to be made - with some discretion for lenders to have the 
final say as to whether to approve the loan. 
As Barclays couldnt verify that G was trading prior to 1 March 2020, it declined the 
application. I think this was reasonable because: 
The bank saw that on Companies House, M was showing as a dormant business for 
accounting purposes.
M had only banked with Barclays since February 2020 and there were no transactions going 
through the account. The bank asked Mr G to provide bank statements for any accounts 
held elsewhere that would show Ms transactions prior to this date  but he didnt provide 
any.  
Mr G provided very little in the way of additional evidence to demonstrate Ms trading activity. 
He said he had been using his own credit card for all of Ms transactions, but credit card 
statements didnt evidence that the payments were for M. He also provided a letter from a 
third party who said it had paid M in shares. Barclays said this wasnt sufficient to confirm M 
had been trading prior to 1 March 2020. I think this was reasonable as I can see the 
document is dated in January 2020  but it doesnt provide evidence of trading - only that a 
payment was made to M in shares at this time.
I recognise that Mr G feels strongly about this and hell be disappointed with my decision. 
But based on everything Ive seen I dont think Barclays did anything wrong in how it 
assessed Ms application.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman