DRN-3322983
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with advice given by Manulife (The Manufacturers Life Insurance Company
(UK) Limited) in 1989 to contact out of SERPS (State Earnings Related Pension Scheme) by
way of a personal pension policy. Manulife later became part of Canada Life.
Mr C is represented in bringing his complaint.
What happened
Ive considered Mr Cs complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 3 February 2022. 
Ive recapped here what I said about what had happened, what Id provisionally decided and 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr Cs representative complained to Canada Life by letter dated 19 December 2019. In
brief:
Mr C had been advised in 1989 to contract out of SERPS. He had little experience or
knowledge of pensions or investments. Hed accepted the advice as being in his best
interests.
The adviser was bound by the LAUTRO (Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory
Office) rules. He had to give the investor all relevant information and use best
endeavours to enable the investor to understand any risks involved. And, in advising
as to the suitability of any investment contract, to have regard to the investors
financial position generally and to any rights he may have under an occupational
pension scheme or SERPS. The adviser also had common law duties, including to
act with reasonable care and skill and to disclose all risks and alternatives, as the
2015 Supreme Court case of Montgomery v Lanarkshire Health Board confirmed.
Investment costs are an important factor and the most reliable predictor of returns 
lower costs mean higher returns. Even seemingly small unnecessary costs can
compound into significant long term financial detriment. Theres no reliable way to
select in advance high cost funds that will deliver better returns than lower cost
alternatives. Choosing a higher cost actively managed fund over, say, a low cost
index fund, exposes the client to an increased risk of a relatively poor investment
return. Only a small proportion of fund managers can deliver sufficient
outperformance to make up for the significant extra costs and theres no way to
identify those fund managers in advance.
Costs should be avoided altogether especially if the alternative comes with
guarantees and/or protection against inflation. If they cant be avoided altogether,
costs should be kept to a minimum. Mr C had been exposed to substantial
unnecessary fund costs. The return had been very poor relative to market returns.
That must be due to excessive costs or poor management or a combination of both.
A client must also be informed of all the costs they will be paying.
Mr C shouldnt have been exposed to the risk of a significantly lower retirement
income as a result of contracting out of SERPS. If hed been informed of that risk, he
wouldnt have accepted the advice to contract out. Nor should he have been exposed
to the risks involved in giving up valuable income guarantees and inflation protected
benefits in favour of a pension linked to the stock market.
All of the contributions were invested in a single, complex and high cost managed
fund. That was unsuitable as there was a lack of diversification and an unnecessary
concentration of risk as well as unnecessary costs. There were several funds
available. Contributions shouldve been spread across different funds to reduce risk.
Canada Life issued its final response on 31 December 2019. Amongst other things, it
referred to the fact find completed at the time. It recorded that Mr C was then aged 38 and
employed, with a salary of £12,000 pa. The section about existing pension provision had
been left blank, indicating that Mr C didnt have any other pension provision. The advisers
recommendation was that Mr C contract out of SERPS and take out a Personal Pension
Manager (PPM) with a gross contribution of £40 pm (£30 net pm).
Mr C was given two illustrations  one for the PPM and the other for contracting out of
SERPS via a Personal Pension Manager  Contract Out (PPMCO). Both illustrations said
they should be read with the accompanying notes and product brochure. The notes say that
what is actually paid will depend on future movements in unit prices, which can go down as
well as up, the effect of the charging structure and the terms ruling at the date of retirement
for converting cash into annuity.
The product brochure also explained the fund choice available, the fund charges that apply
and that unit prices can fall as well as rise. The policy schedules, the policy terms and the
booklets sent after the policies started confirmed details of the charges and the unit linked
nature of the policies. The policies had been reviewed as part of the pensions review but it
was concluded that no further investigation was required as Mr Cs employer at the time
didnt offer a pension scheme.
In view of that and as Mr C had no existing retirement provision, the advice to start a
personal pension and to contact out of SERPS was appropriate. The illustration notes and
the product brochure clearly state that the benefits werent guaranteed and would depend on
unit values which could fall as well as rise. The product brochure also explained the
available choice of funds and the charges that would apply. Mr C was well within the pivotal
age limit of 45 (for males). The illustration showed the potential for Mr C to be better off by
contracting out of SERPS. That would have been seen as a low risk. The level of risk wasnt
unacceptable in relation to the perceived financial advantages. If the issue of risk had been
fully explored, Mr C wouldve still decided to go ahead with the advice to contract out.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary he said, in deciding whether Mr C
shouldve been advised to contract out of SERPS, there were two key factors: Mr Cs age
and his earnings. Canada Lifes actuaries had determined the pivotal age for a male was 45.
Earnings needed to be above the lower earnings limit. Mr C was earning £12,000 pa which
was significantly more. So it was anticipated hed be better off by contracting out of SERPS.
His employer didnt offer an occupational pension scheme and it didnt appear he had any
other pension provision. So it wasnt unreasonable to recommend starting a personal
pension to receive the contracted out deductions.
The contributions were all invested in a single fund  the Managed Fund. Theres nothing to
indicate Mr C wanted a no risk investment. He had over 20 years to remain invested and had
the capacity to take a risk as thered be sufficient time for his investment to recover if there
was any downturn in the markets. Hed have received the PPMCO guide, which confirmed
the costs deducted from the fund  an initial charge, bid offer spread and managementcharges. If hed felt they were too expensive he had the opportunity not to go ahead. The
costs were reasonable and the recommended product met Mr Cs aims. Mr C may be
disappointed with the returns which he considered were due to costs and poor fund
management. But performance wasnt something wed usually uphold a complaint about.
Overall the investigator didnt think the advice was unsuitable.
Mr Cs representative didnt agree. It said the investigator had failed to address the key issue
 that Mr C hadnt been warned of the risk that the personal pension benefits wouldnt match
the guaranteed inflation protected benefits that he was giving up. If hed been warned of that
risk, he wouldnt have wanted to take it.
The investigator asked for Canada Lifes comments on what Mr Cs representative had said.
Canada Life referred to what it had said in its final response letter about the benefits not
being guaranteed and subject to investment performance. Mr C would also have received a
number of documents supporting that and explaining the comparison positions between
remaining contracted in and contracting out of SERPS. From the documents, it wouldve
been clear what Mr C was giving up and what he might receive in return.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill first set out some background to contracting-out of SERPS. Until 1988, individuals could
only contract-out of SERPS if they were members of a defined benefit (final salary)
occupational pension scheme. In 1988, the government extended this to defined
contribution (money purchase) occupational schemes and personal pensions. If an individual
contracted out of SERPS using an appropriate personal pension, instead of a proportion of
their National Insurance contributions being used to top up their SERPS entitlement, they
received rebates that were invested in a fund with their pension provider. It was hoped the
fund would outperform the SERPS mechanism for growth, based on the National Earnings
Index.
The government also wanted to give individuals more choice about how their pension was
provided and to shift pension provision from the state to the private sector. The level of
rebate to be applied had to be decided. If the rebates were set too low then the SERPS
pension given up would likely be worth more than the investment in the personal pension. If
set too high, the government would be paying more than it needed to offset the cost of its
SERPS liabilities.
The level of rebate for contracted out individuals was set by the government after taking
advice from the Government Actuarys Department (GAD). The government set rates at a
level so as to encourage contracting-out. The rebate % level was set as standard for all.
That meant it was less beneficial for older people to contract-out, as they had less time
before retirement to benefit from investment growth on their rebates. So, for older people,
the comparative benefit given up in SERPS would likely outweigh that received by
contracting-out.
The government didnt give advice as to who should be advised to remain in SERPS and for
whom it was expected that contracting-out would be beneficial. But it was clear that age was
the key factor. Pension providers actuaries carried out comparisons of the projected benefits
from SERPS (based on the National Earnings Index) against their alternative personal
pension arrangement (based on LAUTRO set assumptions of likely future investment
returns) to decide who would likely benefit.The ages where the providers advice as to whether to contract-out or not changed, were
called pivotal ages. There was also a lower earnings limit which was used to determine
whether an applicants earnings would be enough to benefit from contracting-out. LAUTRO
didnt determine the pivotal ages. Product providers established their own pivotal ages
based on their own product terms and charges. Some providers also set minimum earnings
levels.
LAUTRO also had specific requirements in connection with contracting-out of SERPS. It
required its members to present illustrations for customers considering contracting-out in a
specified way. Firms were required to use a premium for illustration purposes of the
minimum rebate payable for that year. And the projections were set at two specified rates 
what LAUTRO termed real rates of return (taking into account the effects of inflation). The
rates of return were set as 0.5% and 2.5% above the National Average Earnings Index. The
projections were to include charges. If real rates of return werent used, the corresponding
nominal rate of return could be used of 8.5% and 13% inclusive of charges.
LAUTRO also required the annuity illustrated to be on a comparable basis to that the
SERPS pension paid. So the annuity bases had to take into account indexation and would
increase at 3% per annum to mirror the inflation protection offered by SERPS. The annuity
projected would also include a 50% spouses pension, again in line with SERPS.
Turning now to Mr Cs complaint, Im required under DISP (Dispute Resolution) 3.6.4R, in
considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, to take into
account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of
practice; and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Im
considering the complaint on the basis of the circumstances, including the advisers
obligations, at the time.
Mr C was advised to contract-out in 1989. Manulife was a member of LAUTRO at the
time and bound by LAUTROs rules and its code of conduct. While I agree that the adviser
also had responsibilities under common law (including not making negligent misstatements;
to disclose all material information; and to advise with reasonable skill and care), the
LAUTRO code encompassed the common law duties and imposed higher requirements. So,
in the main, Ive concentrated on the code. I note Mr Cs representatives reference to a
court case. But I dont see that case, decided many years later, is directly relevant although,
as Ive said, I accept that the adviser had to disclose all material information. If he didnt, that
might give rise to questions as to whether Mr C would still have gone ahead.
The overriding principle was that company representatives were required to exercise due
skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors. The code also required best advice to
be given. That included giving the investor all relevant information and using best
endeavours to enable the investor to understand the nature of any risks involved. Company
representatives, in advising an investor as to the suitability for that investor of any
investment contract, had to have regard, in particular, to the investors financial position
generally, to any rights he may have under an occupational pension scheme or SERPS and
to use best endeavours to ensure that only those contracts which were suited to that investor
were recommended.
I dont disagree with what the investigator has said about the main considerations, in
advising someone whether to contract out of SERPS, were age and earnings. Mr C met both
criteria at the time. He was under the pivotal age and his earnings were well above the lower
earnings limit. So he met the criteria set at the time by Manulife, which I think was in line with
the industry generally.
I note that the advice was given on the basis that he didnt have any other pension provision that section of the fact find has been left blank. But I dont think thats quite right. I think he
had deferred benefits in a former employers pension scheme, accrued in respect of service
from October 1973 to August 1988. That said, at the time of the advice to contract out of
SERPS (and set up the other policy) Mr C wasnt an active member of an employers
pension scheme, he wasnt currently contracted out of SERPS and he wasnt making any
other pension provision. So I dont think the fact that he had deferred benefits in a former
employers scheme changes anything.
I agree that Mr Cs attitude to risk is also relevant. As his representative has pointed out,
contracting out exposed Mr C to the risk of poor investment growth and poor annuity rates
which might result in what he got from the personal pension not matching the SERPS
benefits given up. Mr Cs representative suggests Mr C wasnt told there was a risk he might
end up worse off.
Given that the advice was given over thirty years ago (and before there was any
requirement to issue a suitability letter) I dont think its going to be possible to say now
exactly what was discussed and what, if anything, the adviser said about the risks. In that
sort of situation, where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I reach my decision on
the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have
happened in light of all the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive looked at the documentation Mr C was given to see if it sheds any light on what may
have been discussed. I think its unlikely the adviser wouldve said something which
contradicted the written information provided. I dont think its unreasonable to assume any
discussions wouldve been based on and in line with the written material.
The booklet that Mr C was given entitled Could it pay you to contract out of the State
scheme? said the main thing to consider was whether investing the national insurance
rebates in a personal pension would provide a bigger pension than staying in SERPS. That
would depend on a number of factors, but the principal one was age. The booklet went on to
say: So if you are young it makes sense to contract out  the rebate is more than you need
to replace your SERPS pension, and the difference may [my emphasis] provide you with
extra retirement income. That indicated that getting a bigger pension wasnt guaranteed.
The booklet went on to refer to the rules laid down by LAUTRO as to how illustrations had to
be prepared. And that the annuities illustrated were in a form which could be compared with
the SERPS benefit given up. It said that the two amounts shown didnt represent the upper
and lower limits of the possible amount of the benefit (ie what the personal pension might
provide). And that the actual comparison with the SERPS benefits given up will be affected
by future movement in unit prices which can go down as well as up, the effect of the
charging structure on the contract, the terms ruling at the date of retirement for converting
cash into annuity and future increases in national average earnings (on which SERPS
increases were based). Again, I dont think there was any indication that the personal
pension would definitely provide higher benefits than SERPS.
On balance, I think Mr C wouldve known there was no guarantee hed be better off and that
there was a risk that he could be worse off. I havent seen anything to suggest he was risk
averse. Given the length of time to his retirement I think he could afford to take some risk
and when there was potential for him to be better off as a result of contracting out of SERPS.
I note the booklet also said that if the person contracting out hadnt been in a contracted out
pension scheme during the last two years then theyd also qualify for a bonus payment from
the Government, paid directly into the personal pension. As Ive said above, Mr C had been
a member of a former employers pension scheme which was contracted out. Hed left his
employer in August 1988 so hed been contracted out of SERPS during the previous twoyears. Im not sure if that meant he didnt qualify for all the bonus payments. But my
understanding is that in addition to the rebates, annual incentive payments of an additional
2% would apply until 1993 so Mr C presumably got some, if not all, of the bonuses.
Ive considered the other points made by Mr Cs representative. Looking at the costs first,
Ive seen a members booklet and an example of the right to cancel notice which wouldve
been sent to Mr C after the policy was set up. The booklet was a summary of how the policy
worked and the benefits it provided. It said that charges were set out in the right to cancel
notice. It said there was a monthly charge (50p, paid by deduction of units) for administering
the plan plus management charges which were set out. Mr C would also have received a
copy of the policy provisions. Section 2 dealt with premiums and charges. The illustrations
Mr C wouldve received also had to take into account charges. I think Mr C was informed
about the charges. I dont think they were unreasonable.
Mr Cs representative says that due consideration should be given to low cost funds. And
that actively managed funds rarely sufficiently over perform to make up for the higher costs.
And that its not possible to identify, in advance, those managers who will deliver sufficient
out performance. But I think thats somewhat of a generalisation which, taken to its logical
conclusion, would mean that no investor would select actively managed funds over lower
cost funds. Opinions will differ as to actively managed funds. Such funds can deliver
performance that, after fees are paid, beats the market, even if research shows that
relatively few actually achieve that consistently.
Ive also looked at the fund selected and the fact that all of the contributions were invested in
a single fund  the Managed Fund. I agree that diversification is (and always has been)
important and is generally regarded as good investment practice. While losses can still
result, diversification reduces risk. Spreading money across different types of investments
and assets classes means, if one holding performs poorly in the prevailing economic
circumstances, others may do better and so the risk of an overall loss is reduced. So I can
see the argument that investing in a single fund may not be prudent. But it will depend on the
fund itself.
The right to cancel notice said, about the Managed Fund, that it invests directly in equities,
gilts and property or through any of the other funds to spread the investment risk. It went on
to set out what the other funds invested in. I think how the managed fund was described,
with the express aim of minimising risk by holding a very broad range of different
investments and asset classes and investing in other funds, indicates that the fund was
diversified.
As well as the Managed Fund there were Equity (investing in equities quote on the UK stock
exchange); International (investing mainly in equities quoted on overseas stock exchanges);
Property (investing in commercial and industrial property in the UK); Gilt-Edged (investing in
British Government and other fixed interest securities); Guaranteed (investing in short term
deposits); Index Linked Gilt (investing in British Government stocks which had interest
payments linked to the Retail Price Index.
I accept that diversification could have been achieved by investing over several of the seven
available funds. But some were specialised and/or higher risk. And I think investing over
several funds would have complicated Mr Cs arrangements and was unnecessary when the
managed fund offered diversification across a range of assets, including investment in any of
the other funds available.
All in all I dont think the recommendation to contract out of SERPS was unsuitable for Mr C.
Nor do I think the Managed Fund was unsuitable for Mr C and bearing in mind that he was in
a position to take some investment risk.Responses to my provisional decision
Canada Life didnt comment further. And Mr Cs representative didnt have anything further 
to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further information, evidence or comments, my views remain as set 
out in my provisional decision. Ive repeated above in full the background and my provisional 
findings. What I said forms part of my final decision.  
Im unable to uphold the complaint for the reasons Ive already given. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and I dont make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman