DRN-3216231
The complaint
A partnership which Ill refer to as D complains about Bank of Ireland (UK) Plcs delay in 
processing its Bounce Back Loan application. 
The complaint is brought on Ds behalf by one of the partners, Mr M.
What happened
On 19 May 2020, D applied for a Bounce Back Loan with Bank of Ireland (BOI) to support 
their farming business. 
BOI began to process the application a couple of days after it had been received in May 
2020. However the bank identified in early June that the application only included two of the 
three signatories. This meant BOI werent able to progress Ds application further and 
returned it to the partners. A couple of days later on 5 June, the partners returned the 
correctly completed application, the loan agreement was electronically sent to the partners to 
sign on 10 June, and the funds were credited to their account on 12 June.
Mr M said he spoke to a member of staff at BOI before making the application who said D 
would receive the loan funds within 48 hours. When the funds werent credited to Ds 
account as expected, Mr M called BOI repeatedly for an update. 
Mr M said he was told on numerous occasions by different BOI staff that the loan funds 
would be with D in a couple of days, but this didnt happen. Mr M said he paid one of Ds 
outstanding business invoices as he was expecting the loan funds in a couple of days. This 
meant D didnt have available funds and when a pedigree stock auction took place, Mr M 
was unable to bid for desirable animals from Ds suppliers. 
Mr M remained unhappy and complained to BOI. He said the delay in receiving the funds, 
caused D financial difficulty, and meant he hadnt been able to purchase animals at a recent 
sale, damaging Ds reputation with suppliers. Mr M explained this has caused a long-term 
loss to Ds farming business and asked for compensation for the inconvenience and 
potential losses. 
   
BOI upheld the complaint in part. The bank said they had processed the application and 
identified on 2 June there were only two signatories on the application, not the three 
required. However, the partners werent told this until three days later, so BOI agreed there 
had been a delay and apologised. Shortly after, the bank offered D £250 for the 
inconvenience caused and a letter to explain there had been a three-day delay caused by 
the bank  which could be given to Ds suppliers. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said due to the misinformation and delays by BOI, D had been caused 
inconvenience and a relationship with a supplier had been damaged. So Mr M asked this 
service to look into Ds complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She acknowledged BOI could 
have identified there should have been three names instead of two on Ds application more 
quickly and it know there was an issue. However, she felt the application had been clear that 
all authorised signatories should be included so she didnt feel BOI were fully responsible. 
The investigator agreed there were times D hadnt been given all the information it should of. 
However she said BOI had accepted this, apologised and offered £250 compensation. The 
investigator also said she understood D had purchased items as BOI had told Mr M the 
application would be completed in a couple of days, but she didnt think the bank should be 
held responsible for Ds decision to do so. She also noted that BOI agreed to look at any 
financial loss caused to D due to the delays by the bank, but no evidence had been 
provided. So she thought the bank had done enough to put things right.
Mr M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at Ds complaint. So the case has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Mr M has explained at length the issues Ds farming business has been caused by the delay 
in receiving the Bounce Back Loan. I recognise that any delays in receiving finance would be 
difficult, and even more so in a pandemic. But even though BOI made some errors with the 
information Mr M was given, I dont think the banks timescales to process the application 
were unreasonable or that they were fully responsible for the delay in Mr M receiving the 
information.
Under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules, lenders had to complete fraud, anti-money 
laundering and know your customer (KYC) checks. In this case, I can see that there were 
discrepancies in the information the partners provided on the application form which meant 
BOI couldnt complete the necessary checks, until the form was completed correctly.
Mr M says he filled out Ds details in line with the mandate held with BOI, which was that two 
of Ds partners could sign. However, Ive seen a copy of the Bounce Back Loan application 
which says Please provide details for all/any other  Director/ Member/ Beneficial Owner 
over 20% and beneficial owner of the company/ Guarantor / Authorised Signatories. This 
must be the same as what appears on your mandate. 
I acknowledge Mr M has said they only need two people to sign under Ds mandate, 
however there are three authorised signatories on the business account. So I think Mr M 
ought reasonably to have been aware when he filled out Ds online application that all three 
of the signatories should have been included. So I think it was reasonable that BOI didnt 
proceed with the application at this point.
I recognise Mr M feels BOI should have identified immediately that there was a signatory 
missing on the application and let them know. However, as this was an automated system, 
that wouldnt have always been possible. But Ive seen that BOI updated Mr M within three 
days of noticing the error. 
BOI have also told us that because theyd delayed the application by the three days, the 
bank then prioritised Ds application when it was received on 5 June - so it was processed 
and drawn down in line with other applications which had been received in May 2020. So I 
cant reasonably say the bank caused a significant delay here.  Ive seen evidence that it took a total of sixteen working days from the date Mr M submitted 
Ds application until it had the available loan funds in their account - which doesnt feel 
unreasonable given this was a new scheme and the impact the pandemic would have also 
had on the bank. BOI have also provided information showing this was in line with the other 
applications received at the same time, so I dont think D has been treated unfairly.
Mr M says he was told on several occasions it would be 48 hours for BOI to process Ds 
application and credit the loan funds to its account. So I recognise it would have been 
frustrating that Ds application took longer to progress. However I can see that once the 
application was completed correctly, the funds were drawn down in a matter of days. 
Mr M said he made the decision to purchase stock expecting the funds to be credited to the 
account within 48 hours, and that this has now caused D issues with one of its suppliers. But 
this isnt something I can reasonably hold BOI responsible for. It was Mr Ms decision to 
clear Ds other account balance before the loan funds were in the account. There was no 
guarantee the loan facility would be provided, and D hadnt yet had confirmation that the 
application had been approved, or a signed loan agreement. So I think it would have been 
reasonable for Mr M to wait for the loan funds to be made available to D, before agreeing to 
a purchase or using Ds other available funds. 
Ive also seen that BOI asked Mr M to explain how their error had damaged Ds supplier 
relationship, but Mr M hasnt given any information about this. As BOI have offered to 
provide a letter explaining their part in the application delay, I think this is fair based on the 
evidence Ive seen.
I acknowledge Mr M feels strongly about this, and hell be disappointed with my decision. But 
BOI have recognised their service didnt meet their standards and the bank has apologised 
and offered £250 compensation which I feel is reasonable. Theyve also offered a letter for 
Mr M to provide to Ds suppliers to help repair any reputational damage. So based on what 
Ive seen, I think the bank have done enough to put things right, so I wont be asking them to 
do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. If D wishes to accept Bank of Ireland 
(UK) Plcs offer it should contact the bank directly to arrange this. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman