DRN-3549627
The complaint
Mr Y complains about problems and delays in setting up a direct debit for his mortgage 
payments to Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc. He asks for an apology and suitable compensation.
What happened
Mr Y has a mortgage with Bank of Ireland. He makes monthly payments by direct debit from 
an account with another bank. This bank stopped offering current accounts and Mr Ys 
account was closed at the end of August 2021. Mr Y needed to set up a new direct debit for 
Bank of Ireland to take payments from an account with a different bank.
Mr Y called Bank of Ireland in late August 2021 and was told its systems were down for 
maintenance. He was told to call back, or download a form from the website. Mr Y says he 
didnt have a printer. He says there were problems with Bank of Irelands systems which 
meant he couldnt access his online account. He says he tried to call Bank of Ireland 
numerous times without success, sometimes being put on hold for more than an hour. Mr Y 
says he was worried about defaulting on his payments and sent many emails asking for 
help. 
Mr Y says eventually he was told he could make a manual payment and sent a direct debit 
mandate form. Even then he had to chase Bank of Ireland to ensure these were received.
Our investigator said Bank of Ireland sent a mandate form by post and details for Mr Y to 
make a payment in September 2021. The new direct debit was set up in time for the 
payment due in October 2021. Our investigator said Bank of Irelands offer to look into 
Mr Ys call charges if he provided evidence of the calls was fair. 
Mr Y didnt agree. He said it was impossible to provide evidence of call costs now, and he 
didnt recall receiving the final response letter asking for this. He asked if Bank of Ireland 
would pay compensation to settle the complaint rather than him ask for a final decision. 
Bank of Ireland said it would be straightforward for Mr Y to provide evidence of the calls he 
said he made. It said without this it wouldnt offer compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr Y needed to set up a new direct debit for his mortgage account. When he called in 
August 2021 Bank of Irelands systems were down and it couldnt start this process for him. 
Bank of Ireland offered Mr Y two options. It said he could call back or download the form 
from its website. 
Mr Y says he made many calls, and was sometimes on hold for more than an hour. Bank of 
Ireland says while it had high call volumes at that time, it wasnt aware of customers waiting 
an hour or more. In its final response letter Bank of Ireland said it didnt uphold Mr Ys 
complaint but if he provided evidence of the call charges he said hed incurred it would 
review the matter again. 
Mr Y says he doesnt recall receiving Bank of Irelands final response letter saying this. He 
says its now too late to provide evidence of the calls. However, Mr Y provided a copy of 
Bank of Irelands final response letter to us in October 2021. So I think he did receive it. 
Mr Y didnt provide evidence of the calls he says he made to Bank of Ireland, or to us. In the 
circumstances, I dont think I can fairly require Bank of Ireland to pay compensation to Mr Y 
in relation to these calls.
Mr Y says he didnt have access to his customer hub with Bank of Ireland and sent a screen 
shot which he says supports this. But even if Mr Y was unable to access his online account 
throughout this period (and its not clear that was the case), the direct debit mandate form is 
available on Bank of Irelands website without having to log into an account. 
Mr Y said the suggestion he download a direct debit mandate form from Bank of Irelands 
website wasnt any use to him as he didnt have a printer. This doesnt mean the suggestion 
was unfair. Bank of Ireland wouldnt have known if Mr Y had a printer, or if he was able to 
use a printer belonging to a friend or family member or even a local shop, post office or 
library offering a printing service. Mr Y only needed to print a blank form, so confidentiality 
shouldnt have been an issue.
It was unfortunate that when Mr Y called on Bank of Ireland on 24 August 2021 its systems 
were down. I think the two options it offered (to call back or download the form from its 
website) were reasonable. Mr Y hasnt provided evidence that he made many calls after this, 
with long hold times and no successful outcome.  
When Mr Y did get in contact with Bank of Ireland it posted a direct debit mandate form to 
him and sent account details for him to make a payment in September 2021. The payment 
was made in September 2021 and the new direct debit was in place for the payment due in 
October 2021.
Based on the available evidence, I dont think Bank of Ireland made an error that would 
make it fair and reasonable to require it to pay compensation to Mr Y.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman