DRN-3710924
The complaint
F complains about Society of Lloyds handling of its business interruption insurance claim 
after its business was impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr M, the director of F, brings the complaint on Fs behalf. 
My references to Lloyds include the agent and loss adjusters that Lloyds asked to look into 
the claim. 
What happened
In March 2020 F made a claim to Lloyds under its business interruption insurance policy 
because Fs business had been impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. 
In April 2020 Lloyds turned down Fs claim as it didnt think the policy provided cover for the 
circumstances of its claim. F complained both to Lloyds and to this service. Lloyds then put 
the case on hold pending the outcome of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) business 
interruption insurance test case. The Supreme Court made its ruling on the test case in 
January 2021.
In February 2021 Lloyds referred the claim to its loss adjuster. A few months later 
F complained again to this service because it had received only sporadic communication 
from the loss adjuster and no payment of its claim. Lloyds then offered a claim payment. 
F disagreed with the amount but asked Lloyds to pay the amount it had offered in the 
meantime. Lloyds agreed to make an interim payment but there was a delay before it did so, 
and the amount paid (£35,701.56) was lower than the amount it had offered.
In early October 2021 Lloyds issued its final response on Fs complaint. It gave some 
reasoning for the claim payment and said its interim payment to F had included 8% simple 
interest to recognise the delay in making the payment. Lloyds also accepted there had been 
avoidable delays in its claim handling, that it had sent correspondence to an incorrect 
address and that this had caused F inconvenience. Lloyds said it would pay F £300 
compensation for this. 
F was not happy with Lloyds response to its complaint, which F said was inaccurate in 
several ways. Our Investigator looked into the complaint and concluded that it would be fair 
for Lloyds to pay £45,628, in total, for the claim. Both parties agreed to settle at this amount, 
and Lloyds later paid most of this agreed settlement to F.
The Investigator also recommended that Lloyds pay interest at the rate of 8% simple per 
annum on the claim settlement together with an additional £300 compensation for 
inconvenience. F broadly agreed this was fair and asked for a breakdown of the interest 
award.
Lloyds did not agree to pay additional interest or compensation. It said that it shouldnt be 
required to make any interest payment for the period prior to the Supreme Court judgment, 
because it said the FCA had given insurers permission to await the outcome of the test case 
before deciding liability and settling any claims. Indeed, this service had agreed to close the 
original complaint about the claim pending the outcome of the FCA test case and place it on 
hold. This service did not mention interest at that time. 
Lloyds said that insurers had assisted the FCA by cooperating with the test case, and 
agreeing for the High Court decision appeal to go directly to the Supreme Court 
(leapfrogging the Court of Appeal). It said it would effectively be penalised for acting in 
accordance with the FCAs guidance if we required 8% interest to be paid from the time of 
claim. 
As Lloyds did not agree with our Investigators proposed outcome the complaint was passed 
to me for review. 
Developments
I reviewed the complaint and I contacted both parties to check some information and to 
clarify my proposed approach in this case. 
I asked Lloyds to confirm the amounts it had paid to F, whether it had paid any interest to 
date and whether it had paid F the £300 compensation. I shared this information with F and 
asked whether it had received the compensation. I summarise the position below:
The interim and final claim payment 
Lloyds paid F an interim amount of £35,701.56 but this figure was less than the 
interim payment of £36,351 that Lloyds loss adjuster had recommended. 
Lloyds told me that it had added £350.56 interest to the interim payment, because of 
the delay in making that payment. Together with interest Lloyds interim payment 
would have been £36,701.56 but Lloyds then deducted an interim payment of 
£1,000, leaving the balance of £35,701.56 that it paid to F. 
Lloyds has since confirmed to me that the £1,000 interim payment was issued by 
cheque, but the cheque was stopped and was credited back to the account. So 
Lloyds accepts an additional amount is due to F.
The agreed total claim payment is £45,628. The first interim payment was 
£35,701.56. Lloyds then paid F an additional £9,277. 
So, Lloyds has paid F to date a total of £44,978.56 (£35,701.56 plus £9,277). This 
amount is £649.44 less than the amount that is due to F for the claim. 
To keep things simple, I have told the parties that I intend to require Lloyds to pay to 
F the balance of the claim payment of £649.44 and deal with interest separately.
Interest 
I have told Lloyds and F that I intend to award interest in line with our Investigators 
assessment, and to require Lloyds to provide the breakdown of the interest payment 
to F.
Lloyds has explained why it still does not agree it should have to pay interest 
backdated to 2020. I will address its arguments below. 
Fs director Mr M says that F should receive interest dating back to 2020 and has told me the figures he has calculated for interest. 
Compensation
Mr M has confirmed that F received the £300 compensation from Lloyds in 2021.
Mr M has also provided our Investigator with updated bank details, which we have passed 
on to Lloyds. Mr M has stressed that Lloyds must pay the settlement to the new account 
and not the one it previously held in its records. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim payment 
Both F and Lloyds agreed with our Investigators findings about the total claim payment 
amount of £45,628. 
As set out above, Lloyds has paid to F the following amounts: £35,701.56 and £9,277, being 
a total of £44,978.56.
Both Lloyds and F agree that F has not been paid the full claim settlement. This is because 
Lloyds incorrectly deducted £1,000 from the interim payment.
I require Lloyds to pay to F the balance of the claim payment being £649.44.
Interest
I think it would provide a fair and reasonable outcome for Lloyds to pay interest on the 
settlement it has paid to F and on the balance still outstanding. Ill explain why, and how 
much, below. 
Ive considered Lloyds point that it shouldnt pay interest because it was entitled to wait until 
the Supreme Court judgment, in circumstances where this service had also agreed that it 
could put the complaint on hold. However, I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
I can see from Lloyds initial response in April 2020 that it declined the claim because it didnt 
think the policy provided cover. 
Whilst I appreciate the difficulties the insurers faced with claims of this nature, the clarity 
provided by the courts in the test case does not alter the fact that F had a valid claim and 
that Lloyds decision to decline the claim in 2020 was incorrect.
Ive noted Lloyds point regarding the FCA guidance, but Im unaware of any guidance from 
the FCA that indicates that interest should not be added to the settlement of a valid claim in 
circumstances such as this. 
In relation to an ongoing claim of this nature, it is reasonable that an insurer waits for losses 
to accrue before making settlement. However, it is not necessarily reasonable that an insurer 
waits for the end of an indemnity period before making settlement. Generally speaking, 
I would expect regular monthly payments to be made. 
It is also reasonable that an insurer will have some time to assess any claim. I consider a 
reasonable time to do this on a claim of this nature would be around one month from when F made its claim in March 2020. I agree with the Investigators conclusion that a reasonable 
period of time from which regular payments should have started would have been from one 
month after that when the loss had crystallised. The claim was notified on 20 March 2020 
and it should have been assessed by 19 April 2020, with the first monthly payment to have 
been made one month after that on 19 May 2020 for the first period of loss (20 March 2020 
to 19 April 2020), and so on with regular monthly payments to follow until the end of the 
indemnity period. I dont consider the existence of the FCA test case alters this approach in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Therefore, interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum should be applied to the first months 
claim payment from 19 May 2020, on the second payment from 19 June 2020 and so on 
until the date that F received the first interim payment of £35,701.56. Lloyds must then add 
interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum to the remaining balance of £9,926.44 until the 
date that it made the second payment of £9,277; Lloyds must then add interest at the rate of 
8% simple per annum on the remaining balance of £649.44 until the date it pays F the final 
amount of £649.44 in settlement of the claim.
F has asked for a breakdown of the interest award, which I think is reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I require Lloyds to provide the breakdown. 
Compensation 
Lloyds has accepted that its service was not acceptable and has paid F £300 compensation. 
Lloyds considers that this was a fair level of compensation but I dont agree. I consider the 
compensation amount recommended by our Investigator of £600, in total, is fair. I will explain 
why. 
F is the policy holder. As F is a limited company, it cannot suffer distress. This is not to 
underestimate the clear distress and frustration that Mr M, as director of F has expressed 
during the course of the complaint process. But F is a limited company and is the party 
eligible to complain to this service. 
That said, I can make an award for inconvenience caused to F where its director, Mr M, has 
had to spend unnecessary time and effort as director pursuing the claim with Lloyds rather 
than spending this time on Fs business interests. I have considered Lloyds handling of the 
claim. 
Following the Supreme Courts judgment in January 2021, Lloyds started the claim 
assessment process on 10 February 2021. Lloyds has accepted that there were undue 
delays in processing the claim. It did not contact F until April 2021. F provided the 
information Lloyds requested promptly but there was again no contact until June 2021 when 
Lloyds made its first offer to F. 
It was not until the end of July 2021 that Lloyds offered a meaningful claim settlement to F. 
I accept Fs point that Lloyds did not explain its settlement amount and the letter putting the 
offer to F was sent to the wrong address. It was only in the final response letter of October 
2021 that Lloyds explained its rationale for the claim payment in any detail. 
F had asked for the payment to be made as an interim payment, having clearly explained to 
Lloyds the pressure the lack of funds had placed on Fs business. I think F made it clear to 
Lloyds throughout the importance of the claim and the impact of the pandemic on its overall 
business cashflow. Despite this it was not until the end of September 2021 that Lloyds paid 
the interim payment of £35,701.56. F has pointed out that this figure was confusing, given it 
was not the amount that had been offered to him. I accept Fs point that its Mr M had to chase progress of the claim. As well as incorrect 
addresses, Mr M had to chase the interim payment and also the final claim settlement 
payment. 
Overall, I consider £300 compensation does not go far enough to reflect the inconvenience 
caused to F. I find that £600, in total, is fair and reasonable compensation for inconvenience 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr M has confirmed receipt of £300 compensation in 2021, so I will require Lloyds to pay 
the remaining £300, making £600 compensation in total.  
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint. Within 28 days of the date on which we tell Lloyds that F accepts my 
final decision, I require Society of Lloyds to:
Pay to F the remaining balance of the claim settlement of £649.44; and 
Pay interest to F at the rate of 8% simple per annum on the whole agreed claim 
settlement of £45,628 as follows: for the first months claim amount from 19 May 
2020, the second months amount from 19 June 2020 and so on until the date 
F received the first interim payment of £35,701.56. Lloyds must then pay interest at 
the rate of 8% simple per annum on the reduced amount outstanding of £9,926.44 
until the date that F received the second payment of £9,277. Lloyds must then pay 
interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum on the remaining balance of the claim 
being £649.44 until the date it makes that final settlement to F; and 
Provide F with a breakdown of the interest calculation when it makes the interest 
payment to F; and
Pay to F an additional £300 in compensation for inconvenience. Lloyds must pay the 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it F accepts my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision to the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple per 
annum.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Society of Lloyds to take the 
steps set out in the Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman