DRN-1973277
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are directors of a limited company that Ill refer to as J. Theyve complained on 
behalf of J that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
unfairly turned down a claim on its legal expenses insurance policy.
Any mention of NFU also refers to actions by its agents or representatives.
What happened
J is in dispute with its commercial neighbour about the accessway shared by both premises. 
The neighbour has expanded their site over the last few years, but they are still using the 
shared entrance which Mrs P says was designed for smaller premises. 
J has legal expenses cover with NFU and Mrs P wanted NFU to fund an injunction against 
Js commercial neighbour to stop them from using this shared access due to health and 
safety concerns.
NFU declined Js claim on the basis that the case didnt have sufficient legal prospects at 
that time and because there was a query over whether the policy was in place when this 
event happened.
Mrs P originally complained to NFU about the delays in Js claim being settled and then 
complained further when the claim and requests to pay upfront for experts reports were 
declined.
NFU didnt uphold Js complaint so Mrs P brought it to our service.
Our investigator explained that our service could look at whether NFU had acted fairly in 
declining the claim under the insurance policy, however we could not comment on the legal 
dispute between J and its commercial neighbour.
She didnt think NFU had done anything wrong in declining the claim as Js solicitors report 
didnt confirm that its case had at least a 51% prospect of success. She thought that it was 
reasonable for NFU to decline the request to pay upfront costs for experts reports to Js 
solicitor and she also said that NFU werent responsible for any delays in assessing Js 
claim.
Mrs P didnt agree so the case was escalated for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for largely the same reasons. Let me 
explain why.
Ive first considered whether NFU acted fairly in declining Js claim for legal expenses and I 
think that they have.
The terms and conditions of the policy say that NFU will accept a claim under the legal 
expenses cover where there is at least a 51% prospect of success. The claims management 
report provided by Js solicitors said they didnt have enough information so they couldnt 
provide an assessment on the prospects of the case. They requested that NFU make an 
upfront payment of £4,000 so that they could appoint experts whose reports might increase 
the legal prospects.
NFU said that costs are not paid upfront for legal expenses insurance claims and are only 
paid once a claim is concluded or where costs have been agreed with NFU beforehand. It is 
the insured party who needs to prove to the insurer that the case has a minimum of a 51% 
prospect of success. However, Js solicitor has not provided any supporting evidence of the 
prospect of success in this case, so NFU are unwilling to cover these costs at this time. 
Nonetheless NFU have offered a couple of alternative options to J. They have said that if J 
were to appoint the required experts and this resulted in the prospects of success of the 
case increasing to 51% or more, they would consider reimbursing Js reasonably incurred 
costs. 
Or they would be willing to appoint a panel firm of solicitors to assess the prospects of 
success of the claim. 
So, I dont think NFU have been unreasonable in declining the claim as there were 
insufficient legal prospects of success at the time they assessed it. And I think the offers they 
have made to J are fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
Mrs P also thought that NFU had caused unnecessary delays in assessing Js claim and as 
our investigator has already explained, we can only consider any delays that took place on 
or after 1 April 2019.
Ive considered all the correspondence between Mrs P, NFU and Js solicitors as well as 
NFUS internal records and notes. The only delay I can see is that it took more than five 
months for Js solicitors to provide NFU with the report giving their assessment on the 
prospects of the case. I can see that NFU did chase them for the report and that it was NFU 
who advised Mrs P that Js solicitors were responsible for the delay. So, I dont think NFU 
are responsible for any delays in assessing Js claim.
There is also the outstanding issue of whether the cover was in place on the date the event 
first occurred. For NFU to assist J any further they require clarity on this date as they need to 
be sure their policy was in place at the time. However, given my reasoning set out above, I 
have not had to reach a view on this. 
I am satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for NFU to decline Js claim and do not believe 
it was responsible for any undue delay in handling the claim. Therefore, I dont require them 
to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P on 
behalf of J to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman