DRN-3456526
The complaint
Mr L complains that Vitality Health Limited turned down his private medical insurance claim.
What happened
On 25 May 2018, Mr L took out the policy with Vitality. It was taken out on a 
moratorium basis, which meant that pre-existing conditions from the previous five 
years wouldnt be covered.
In February 2021, Mr L experienced heartburn and saw a specialist. He was 
diagnosed with a hernia, and made a claim under the policy for treatment.
Vitality turned down the claim as it thought Mr L had experienced symptoms of his 
condition before taking out the policy. It therefore concluded the claim fell under the 
moratorium.
Unhappy with this, Mr L brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought that it had 
been reasonable for Vitality to conclude that Mr Ls condition fell under the 
moratorium.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 April 2022. Heres what I said:
The policy says:
We will not pay for the following:
a) If you or your insured dependents have a moratorium underwriting basis:
-We will not pay for treatment of any medical condition or related condition 
which in the five years before your cover start date you:have received medical 
treatment for
-had symptoms of
-have asked advice on or
-to the best of your knowledge were aware existed.
This is called a pre-existing medical condition.
Mr Ls GP said that Mr Ls symptoms of chest pain and heartburn had begun in 2012. 
They said in 2015 he reported heartburn and a lump in the throat. It was noted that he 
took medication for heartburn intermittently, and that a gastroscopy in 2015 showed he 
had oesophagitis with no mention of a hernia. The GP said that Mr L would have been 
aware of the symptoms before taking out the policy in May 2018. Finally, the GP said 
Mr Ls symptoms reoccurred after he stopped taking medication (they implied this 
happened in June 2020).
In February 2021, Mr L had an upper GI endoscopy with a capsule insertion. This 
confirmed he had a hiatus hernia.
In March 2021, Mr L was seen by a consultant gastrointestinal surgeon (Mr B). Mr B 
said it was clear that Mr L had significant acid reflux caused by his hiatus hernia. He 
noted that Mr L had been thinking about surgery on and off for years, and had decided 
that he would have the surgery. Mr B recommended a laparoscopic repair of the hernia 
and a magnetic implant for the treatment of reflux.
Mr Ls GP has provided a more recent letter. They said that in 2015, Mr L was diagnosed 
with oesophagitis following a gastroscopy and there was no mention of him having a 
hernia at this time. The GP explained that Mr L was treated for this with a pump inhibitor. 
The GP said that, in their medical opinion, Mr Ls symptoms from 2015 werent 
connected to his current symptoms due to reflux disease with a hiatus hernia.
The NHS says that oesophagitis is the inflammation of the lining of the oesophagus, and 
this is usually caused by reflux of stomach acid. The medication Mr L took was to reduce 
stomach acid.
I appreciate that Mr L had investigations in 2015 and he wasnt found to have a hernia at 
this time. I dont think Vitality has shown that Mr Ls hernia happened before the policy 
was taken out. However, the claim isnt only for the repair of the hernia, its also for 
treatment of Mr Ls reflux, which he had before taking out the policy.
I think a reasonable outcome would be for Vitality to cover the cost of the hernia 
repair. I dont intend to require it to cover the cost of treating Mr Ls long-standing 
reflux.
I asked both parties to provide any further comments they wished to make, before I 
made a final decision. 
Mr L responded to say he accepted my provisioanl decision, and thought this was a 
fair outcome.
Vitality responded with the following main points:
It asked if the case could be reviewed by one of our medically trained experts.
The GP identified the symptom start date of this condition as being in 2012, 
and didnt mention the more recent symptoms as being new or different to 
those experienced previously.
Mr Bs letter said that Mr L had been considering surgery on and off for years.
Its medical doctor said that acid reflux and and oesopahagitis are usually a 
consequence of an underlying cause or condition such as a hernia (some 
other causes include diet, obesity, and smoking). They said this raises the 
question of why surgery would be discussed or considered if there had been 
no evidence prior to 2021 that the underlying cause was a hernia.
Its medical doctor also said that Mr L had a sliding hiatus hernia, and this may 
not always be evident on an endoscopy. They said the GP had only written to 
advise that there was no mention of a hernia on the 2015 report but this doesnt necessarily exclude hernia as a cause of Mr Ls symptoms.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vitality has asked if this case can be looked at by a medically trained expert. To confirm, we 
dont have medically trained staff, instead we rely on the evidence brought to us by both 
parties before deciding whether or not a business did anything wrong. 
Although Vitality says Mr Ls GP identified the symptom start date of this condition as being 
2012, the GP has confirmed they didnt think Mr Ls earlier symptoms were connected to this 
condition. 
I accept that Mr L had experienced reflux symptoms for years (which he also accepts, and 
which is evidenced by Mr Bs reference to him considering surgery for years). Its for that 
reason that I dont require Vitality to cover the cost of treating Mr Ls long-standing reflux.
Vitalitys medical doctor questions why surgery would be discussed or considered as a 
management plan if thered been no evidence prior to 2021 that the underlying cause of 
Mr Ls symptoms was a hernia. 
I cant answer this, as Im not Mr Ls doctor. However, Im satisfied from the evidence Ive 
seen that Mr L was diagnosed with a hernia in February 2021 (around three years after the 
policy started), and that Mr B thought this was causing the symptoms of significant acid 
reflux that Mr L was experiencing at that time.
As Ive said, I accept that Mr L had experienced symptoms of reflux previously. If Mr L hadnt 
had any investigations in 2015, I mightve agreed with Vitality that it would be reasonable to 
say that his symptoms had likely been caused by his hernia. However, I cant ignore that 
Mr L had a gastroscopy in 2015 and wasnt found to have a hernia at this time. 
Ive noted Vitalitys doctors explanation that the hernia may not have been evident on the 
endoscopy, though this hasnt been suggested by Mr B or Mr Ls GP. It seems the fact that 
no hernia was found in 2015 was the reason the GP said they thought Mr Ls symptoms from 
2015 werent connected to the symptoms due to the hernia. If the GP thought that Mr Ls 
hernia had been missed when the gastroscopy took place in 2015 (but was still responsible 
for his symptoms before the policy started), I wouldve expected them to have said this.
Overall, Im still not persuaded that Vitality has done enough to show that Mr Ls hernia was 
a pre-existing condition and fell under the moratorium. I therefore remain of the view a 
reasonable outcome would be for Vitality to cover the cost of the hernia repair only.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I require Vitality Health Limited to deal 
with Mr Ls claim for the hernia repair only under the remaining policy terms. If Mr L has paid 
for this treatment himself, then Vitality should reimburse him directly and add interest at the 
rate of 8% simple annum from the date the invoice/s were paid to the date of settlement*.
* If Vitality considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should also give Mr L a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman