DRN-3732073
The complaint
Mr K complains about Oodle Financial Services Limited trading as Oodle Car Finance 
(Oodle). He says personal belongings werent returned to him from a vehicle that was 
recovered.
What happened
Mr K acquired a used vehicle by entering into a hire purchase agreement with Oodle in 
November 2019.
In December 2021, Mr K contacted Oodle as the vehicle had been recovered by the DVLA. 
At the time, the keys to the vehicle were still in Mr Ks possession. Mr K had been notified by 
the police that the vehicle had been recovered due to it not being correctly taxed.
A few days later, Oodle requested the use of a third-party company to recover the vehicle 
from the DVLA where they say it was taken to their auction site. Oodle say they also made 
the decision to cover the cost of obtaining a new key to access the vehicle.
Mr K says he had personal belongings still in the vehicle when it was recovered, and so 
contacted Oodle to help retrieve them. He told Oodle the items in the vehicle consisted of 
various things, such as jump leads, stationary, clothing, mobile phone as well as a handset 
which enabled him to carry out his employment. Oodle say they told Mr K that he would 
need to contact the site where the vehicle was located to retrieve his belongings, but they 
say he declined to.
Mr K contacted Oodle again later in the month to ask for his belongings to be sent to him. 
Oodle say they explained to Mr K that he would need to contact the vehicles location site to 
arrange this.
Mr K complained to Oodle. Among other things, he says Oodle should have asked him for 
the keys to the car and given him the opportunity to take his belongings from it. He also says 
he isnt happy to cover the cost of a second key.
Oodle upheld Mr Ks complaint. They say they confirmed to Mr K he would not be required to 
cover the cost of an additional key. They also say that the items have been removed from 
the vehicle by a third-party and do not know where they are, so they accept responsibility for 
this mistake. They say they asked Mr K for evidence of the items he says were in the vehicle 
when it was recovered and that they attempted to contact Mr K on several occasions in the 
following days to obtain the details, but they didnt receive a response.
Oodle also apologised to Mr K for not providing clear information on the location of his 
belongings when he asked for them and offered to credit his account by £50 for the distress 
and inconvenience this instance has caused him. Oodle say they have since paid Mr K £50 
using his bank details.
Mr K, unhappy with Oodles response, referred his complaint to our service. He says he told 
Oodle many times that he wanted his belongings back and he was told by them that he 
would be contacted by a manager, but never was.
Our investigator found that Oodle didnt need to do anything further. She explained that she 
reviewed the account notes provided by Oodle and could see that they requested and 
chased Mr K for a detailed breakdown of what was inside the vehicle. But as this was never 
provided to Oodle, she couldnt say they had acted unfairly.
Mr K disagreed with the investigators view. And so, it has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
Mr K complains about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts such as this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider 
Mr Ks complaint about Oodle.
Oodle explained to Mr K in their final response that they do not know where the belongings 
are and so have accepted full responsibility for this. As it isnt in dispute that Oodle has 
made a mistake here, Ive gone on to consider whether they have acted fairly in trying to put 
things right.
So, what I need to consider here is whether Oodle have acted fairly and reasonably by not 
reimbursing Mr K for the items he says were in the car without a detailed breakdown of 
these.
Oodle made it clear to Mr K that they would require evidence as to what items were left in 
the vehicle. Considering some of the items Mr K says were in the vehicle as well as what Mr 
K says is the value of them, I think Oodle has acted fairly by requesting this information. If Mr 
K can evidence the items that hes lost, I suggest for him to contact Oodle directly.
Mr K has given different information about the value of the items in the vehicle. It initially 
appears he told Oodle this was around £500. It then appears he told Oodle the items were 
worth £700. In his complaint to our service, he told us multiple thousand pounds in lost 
goods had gone missing.
Ive carefully thought about this. Mr K says he had items such as a mobile phone and 
handset for work. I think, on balance, Mr K should be able to provide some sort of evidence 
for these personal items.
Mr K also told us there were items in the vehicle belonging to a delivery company, and he 
couldnt find out exactly what these were. Given it doesnt appear these items belonged to 
Mr K, I dont think its reasonable to expect Oodle to compensate him for these.
Thinking about things here, given Mr K told us he has lost thousands of pounds worth of 
items, I think its fair and reasonable that Oodle asked for further information about this. It 
isnt in dispute that Mr K didnt provide this, but I havent seen a reasonable explanation as 
to why this was the case. So, it follows I dont think Oodle needs to take any action here 
without further evidence.Oodle has paid Mr K £50. They say this is due to their lack of communication and the 
distress and inconvenience this instance has caused him.
Considering the time it took for Oodle to contact Mr K to correct their mistake and for how 
they have attempted to put things right, I think the £50 Oodle has already paid is fair in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
Oodle Financial Services Limited trading as Oodle Car Finance has already paid Mr K £50.
My decision is that this is fair and reasonable under the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman