DRN-3808153
The complaint
Miss C complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) irresponsibly provided her 
with credit she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in October 2022. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Capital One approved a credit card application for Miss C in July 2018, the credit limit was
initially set at £200 but was increased to £450 in August 2019.
Miss C says Capital One were wrong to provide credit as it wasnt affordable for her.
Capital One disagree. They say that when they approved the credit card application they
reviewed Miss Cs credit file and found she had no arrears, defaults, or County Court
judgements. They said they didnt see any signs of financial difficulty and that Miss Cs
declared income and their statistical modelling of her likely expenditure suggested she had
sufficient disposable income to sustainably afford repayments. When they increased
Miss Cs credit limit in 2019 they also reviewed Miss Cs performance on her account. They
noted that she hadnt missed any payments and had stayed within the applied limit. They
reviewed her credit file and didnt see evidence Miss C was struggling financially. They
thought the information suggested the lending was affordable for Miss C.
Our adjudicator agreed but Miss C didnt. She explained she had taken out a large loan only
a few months before she had applied for the credit card and that Capital One should have
questioned why she would also need a credit card so soon afterwards. She asked for a final
decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and
reasonable here.
Account opening
Miss C told Capital One that she was earning about £10,000 per year which is about £830
net per month. The credit file check showed she had recently taken out a loan with
repayments of £153 per month and that she had revolving credit of £800 which shed only
been using about £300 of.
The overarching requirement on the lender is to ensure that any new credit it is looking to
provide isnt going to cause financial hardship for the consumer. If the consumer has access
to revolving credit but hasnt used it so far, they potentially have that credit available to them.
So, it is reasonable for the business to consider what the consumer can afford should they
max out those credit facilities as that could literally happen in one day.
If Miss C used all of the credit available to her (£800 plus this credit limit of £200) and repaid
it over a reasonable two year period at a similar interest rate she would pay about £55 per
month. So, I think the information Capital One reviewed on Miss Cs initial application
suggested she had an income of about £833 and credit expenditure of about £208.
That left about £625 before other non-discretionary outgoings were taken into account such
as food, clothing, and any housing costs. Miss C had told Capital One that she was living
with her parents, but she hadnt clarified whether she was paying any rent or contributing to
utility bills or food. In the absence of that information I dont think the checks they performed
when the account was opened could be said to be reasonable and proportionate. I think they
should have done more to clarify Miss Cs expenditure.
I cant be sure exactly what Capital One would have found out if it had asked about Miss Cs
expenditure. In the absence of anything else, I think it would be reasonable to place
significant weight on the information contained in Miss Cs bank statements as to what would
most likely have been disclosed.
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. These
show that Miss Cs income was about £817 per month and she was paying about £400 to
£500 a month towards her committed living expenditure including food, travel, and clothing.
There were no clear payments towards rent or utility bills.
I think this suggests that once Miss Cs credit expenditure was taken into account she would
have sufficient disposable income to sustainably afford repayments towards the limited credit
Capital One were providing when they approved her application. I dont therefore think
Capital One were wrong to provide a card with a £200 limit.
The credit limit increase to £450
Capital One performed similar checks before they applied the limit increase. They were also
able to review Miss Cs performance on her account. Whilst for the most part she had been
paying just the minimum repayments she had been staying within her limit and hadnt
missed any payments.
Miss Cs credit file didnt show any signs of distress. There were no defaults or County Court
judgements and although Miss C had taken out pay day loans in the past there were none
listed in the last three months and only limited utilisation of pay day loans before that.
Miss C told them she was earning £11,700 per year (about £942 net per month) and I dont
think given the relatively modest credit limit increase being offered that Capital One needed
to verify that income. I think it was fair for them to rely on Miss Cs income declaration.
I cant see that Capital One had information from Miss Cs credit file at this point that detailed
her credit commitments. So, I dont think the checks they did were reasonable and
proportionate.
Ive therefore looked at Miss Cs bank statements from around the time the credit limit was
increased to see what would have likely been disclosed about Miss Cs expenditure.
Ive reviewed three months of statements from the months preceding the limit increase.
These show that Miss C was no longer benefitting from the steady income she had been in
receipt of when she first applied for her credit card. She was receiving income from various
sources and her mother was supplementing it. Ignoring payments from Miss Cs mother hernet income was between £445 and £701 per month. Miss C was close to her limit and
payments were returned to her account on seven occasions because there were insufficient
funds available.
The statements showed monthly non-discretionary payments of around £428, including loan
repayments, car expenses and communications bills. There were also expenses for food of
about £250 per month. I think that suggests that Miss C was struggling to meet her regular
outgoings. She was missing payments, her income was being supplemented by her mother,
and her income was not sufficient to sustainably cover her outgoings.
In those circumstances I dont think Capital One were responsible to provide further credit.
My provisional decision
As I dont think Capital One should have increased Miss Cs credit limit to £450, I dont think
its fair for it to be able to charge any interest or charges beyond the opening credit limit of
£200. But I think Miss C should pay back the amount she has borrowed as shes had the
benefit of that money. Therefore, Im expecting to tell Capital One (Europe) plc to:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges, and insurances (which have
not already been refunded) and have been accrued on balances over £200.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss C along with
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the
date of settlement. Capital One should also remove all adverse information regarding
this account from Miss Cs credit file.
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Capital One should
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Miss C for the remaining amount. Once
Miss C has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account
should be removed from her credit file.
If Capital One has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back the debt 
from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is carried out
promptly.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires Capital One to deduct tax from any award of interest.
It must give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for
one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after
deducting the tax.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C and Capital One accepted my provisional decision so Ive seen no reason to change 
it.
Putting things right
My provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Capital One (Europe) plc to:Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges, and insurances (which have
not already been refunded) and have been accrued on balances over £200.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss C along with
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the
date of settlement. Capital One should also remove all adverse information regarding
this account from Miss Cs credit file.
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Capital One should
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Miss C for the remaining amount. Once
Miss C has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account
should be removed from her credit file.
If Capital One has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back the debt 
from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is carried out
promptly.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires Capital One to deduct tax from any award of interest.
It must give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for
one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after
deducting the tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman