DRN-2499228
The complaint
Mr B has complained about AA Insurance Services Limiteds actions in connection with his 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B had a policy arranged by AA for one of his two cars. He rang AA about changing the 
cars on the policy. AA did so but Mr B was unhappy with the amounts it said hed have to 
pay. Mr B cancelled his direct debit that was paying for his premium in instalments. He 
contacted AA several times to discuss the amounts it was charging him and whether he 
could change the level of cover. But, as he hadn't paid his premium instalments, AA 
cancelled his policy and told him he still had a balance outstanding which hed have to pay.
Mr B didn't think AA had dealt with him fairly and complained. AA replied. It acknowledged 
that it hadn't always made calls back as promised, and paid Mr B £20 compensation for the 
impact of that, but it otherwise didn't think it had done anything wrong. Mr B didn't agree and 
brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She didn't think AA 
needed to take any further action. Mr B didn't agree so his complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it.
In bringing this complaint Mr Bs made a number of detailed points. I've considered 
everything hes said carefully but in this decision I don't intend to address each and every 
point raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key issues at the heart of Mr Bs 
complaint. 
At the time Mr B was first thinking about changing the car on his policy his monthly payments 
to AA were around £27. He spoke with AA in November 2019 and it told him to change the 
car on the policy would mean an increase in his monthly payments to around £55 for the 
remaining six-monthly payments. Mr B said he thought that was too high and hed get back 
to AA about it. Mr Bs told us he thinks this call is irrelevant to the consideration of his 
complaint. But I disagree as I think it puts the amounts AA quoted him to pay following this 
into context. 
Mr B rang AA again around three weeks later. Ive listened to Mr Bs calls with AA when it 
offered to change the car on the policy. AA initially told him that he would need to pay 
around £131 extra to the existing policy in order to change the car. It seems that Mr B has 
interpreted that to mean that AA would only be billing him to pay £131 in total for the 
remaining five months of his policy. But that wasn't the case, instead AA was telling Mr B 
that he would have to pay £131 more, on top of the sum he was already paying for the 
policy. 
AA couldn't complete the quote during the above call and it rang Mr B back later that day. 
During that call AA initially said the cost to Mr B would be around £131 in total. But it then 
said the £131 was an additional premium and that it would change Mr Bs direct debit 
payments to around £57 a month. Mr B repeated the £57 figure and confirmed himself that 
was the sum hed be paying over the next five payments until the end of the policy year. 
Mr Bs suggested AA wasn't clear and didn't explain what the additional premium would be 
on top of. But I don't think it needed to. I think most people would understand that an 
additional premium, is exactly that. That is its an amount - an additional sum - above the 
existing premium. And if Mr B didn't understand that he could have asked for clarification. 
But I don't think AA in any way misrepresented the premium, and its notable that the monthly 
figure it quoted to him is similar to the sum it had quoted the previous month. In other words 
its around the amount Mr B could have expected AA to quote to him. So I don't think AA 
was responsible for any misunderstanding.
Mr Bs also said AA didn't tell him how many payments hed have to make. But having 
listened to the call it quite clearly did. It told him he would need to make five payments over 
five months. And Mr B repeated that and commented that his payments could only be 
spread over five payments as that was the remaining term of his policy.
Further Mr B said AA was asking him to make two payments in December. But thats not 
right. The revised payment schedule, which AA sent to Mr B on 20 December 2019 only 
required him to make one payment on the 30th of each month. But, in the previous month, 
November 2019, Mr Bs direct debit payment wasn't successful. So he didn't actually make 
his monthly payment in November. And instead he caught up with that payment by paying 
with his card a couple of weeks later in December. But that payment was for the one missed 
in November. That meant that, when AA asked him to make a payment, at the higher 
amount on 30 December, that wasn't a second payment for December but simply an 
instalment that always fell due on that date. But in any event Mr B had cancelled his direct 
debits so didn't make the payment due on 30 December 2019. It follows that I don't think AA 
tried to charge him twice in December. And I think it was clear about the amounts it was 
asking him to pay.
Mr B added that he hadn't been expecting AA to take a final premium payment in April 2020. 
But its not clear why he thought that was the case. When Mr B took out his initial agreement 
to pay for his policy in instalments he'd always agreed to an initial payment and 11 further 
payments, beginning in June 2019 and with the final instalment becoming due in April 2020. 
The date of his final instalment didn't change when Mr B altered the car on the policy. And 
as I've said above, AA was clear with him that he would need to make five more payments 
over a five month period. So, given the first of those five payments was in December 2019, 
the last payment was plainly due in April 2020. It follows that I don't think AA did anything 
wrong when explaining what Mr B would have to pay if he changed the car on his policy.
Mr B told us that, as he hadn't agreed to the new premium, he didn't have an existing 
contract with AA. But I think hes wrong. First, when Mr B changed the car on the policy I 
don't think he was setting up an entirely new policy. Instead he was making an amendment 
to his existing policy and therefore his existing contract. Second, as I've said above, I've 
heard Mr B quite clearly agree to make the five further payments of around £57, so I think he 
did agree to the policy amendment even if he changed his mind about that later.
Similarly, Mr B said that as he contacted AA shortly after amending the policy to query the 
figures AA was charging him, then this should have been within his 14 day cooling off period. 
And, as such he should have been able to cancel the policy without penalty. But as I 
understand it the cooling off period only applies to the first fourteen days from the start of a 
new policy. And as Mr B wasn't setting up a new policy, but amending an existing one, then 
another cooling off period didn't begin.That said Mr B could have cancelled the policy himself had he wanted to. And I've noted that 
he did say he intended to do so more than once. But he didn't actually do that. For example, 
on 3 February 2020 AA told Mr B that he could cancel the policy himself. Mr B said that he 
would phone AA back with his decision the following day. But he didn't do so. 
In the meantime Mr B had cancelled his direct debit payments. He hadn't made a payment to 
AA since hed made the late payment for November 2019. So he had missed two payments 
for December 2019 and January 2020. I understand that Mr B was concerned that AA might 
deduct an incorrect sum if he left his direct debit in place. But Mr B was paying for his 
premium via a credit agreement with AA in which he agreed to make monthly payments. But 
Mr B hadn't kept to that agreement. And its terms said that if Mr B didn't make the required 
payment then AA could consider that he was in default and cancel the policy. I've seen that 
AA wrote to Mr B to warn him that if he didn't make payment then thats what would happen. 
But Mr B didn't make a further payment and so, in line with the terms in his credit agreement, 
AA cancelled his policy. I think that was a reasonable thing for it to do in the circumstances. 
Im aware Mr B contacted AA shortly after it had cancelled the policy to say he wanted to 
cancel it himself. But by that time AA had already cancelled the policy and I think it did so 
reasonably. So I don't think AA needs to update its records to show that Mr B had cancelled 
the policy when that's not what happened. Similarly, given that Mr B had defaulted on his 
credit agreement, I don't think AA needs to alter any record which shows that.
Mr Bs said that he acted in good faith and offered AA a compromise solution, that being that 
both parties simply walk away without any further money changing hands. But I don't think 
thats fair. Mr B had continued to benefit from the cover while he was disputing the additional 
premium. And he still owed AA money to pay for that insurance and for its other fees in line 
with the terms of business he had agreed with it. So I think it was reasonable for AA to want  
Mr B to pay to it what he owed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman