DRN-3307255
The complaint
Mr P complains that esure Insurance Limited undervalued his car following a claim on his car 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P was hit by a third party so claimed on his policy with esure. esure reviewed the claim 
and accepted it but said Mr Ps car would be what is known as a total loss due to the extent 
of the repairs needed. Because of this esure offered Mr P £9,841 as the market value for his 
car. esure then deducted £1,052 from this as they said Mr Ps car had pre-existing damage 
which would cost £2,104 to repair. 
Mr P didnt think this was fair and complained as he said esure hadnt offered him enough. 
He also said there wasnt pre accident damage to his car. esure reviewed the complaint and 
didnt uphold it. They said theyd used four commonly used trade guides to value his car and 
as their offer was within this range, thought their offer was fair. They also said due to the 
damage on Mr Ps car it was fair for them to deduct 50% of the repair costs from what theyd 
pay. Mr P didnt agree and brought his complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it be upheld. He found that 
esures valuation was in line with the motor valuation guides. However as Mr Ps car was 8 
years old and had covered over 130,000 miles, he didnt think esure had done enough to 
show the damage was more than youd expect on a car of similar age and mileage to Mr Ps. 
esure didnt agree, they said there was a previous poor repair, the wheels had been curbed 
and there were other repairs needed which they thought was more than normal wear and 
tear. 
As esure disagreed the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service doesnt value cars. Instead we check to see that the insurers valuation is fair
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we tend to
use relevant trade guides. I usually find these persuasive as theyre based on nationwide
research of sales prices.
esure gave the values of the trade guides used but didnt provide evidence of those values 
so Ive not been able to check them. Ive therefore re-run the valuations through the three 
trade guides we use, and theyve given values of £,8,700, £9,575 and £10,028. esure have 
valued Mr Ps car at £9,841. As this is within the range of the guides, Im satisfied its a fair 
and reasonable valuation for esure to reach in this particular case. 
Ive also considered Mr Ps points about the deductions esure has made to the valuation. 
esure have provided photos of the damage and an engineers report to say what it would 
cost to put them right. And while I agree there are areas of damage to Mr Ps car, such as 
curbed alloys and marks on the bodywork. Im also conscious that Mr Ps car was 8 years 
old and had covered over 130,000 miles at the time of loss. And from looking at the pictures 
of the damage and esures comments Im not persuaded theyve done enough to show the 
damage is more than youd expect for a car of its age and mileage. It follows that Im not 
persuaded its fair and reasonable to make this deduction. 
To put things right the fair and reasonable outcome is for esure to remove the deduction for 
pre-existing damage from Mr Ps claim. esure should therefore pay this amount along with 
any outstanding amounts to Mr P. To compensate Mr P for not having the money esure 
should also add 8% simple interest per year to what they pay Mr P, calculated from the date 
of claim until the date of settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
esure Insurance Limited to remove the deduction for pre accidental damage from Mr Ps 
settlement and pay him any outstanding amounts, subject to the remaining policy terms and 
conditions. esure Insurance Limited also needs to add 8% simple interest to what it pays, 
calculated from the date of claim until the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman