DRN-4381437
The complaint
Miss A says Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Miss A took out a credit card from Virgin Money in May 2021. She was given a credit limit of 
£3,700. This was increased to £7,400 in January 2022.
Miss A says she has struggled to make her repayments, having to borrow from family and 
friends. This has caused her extreme stress and anxiety.
Virgin Money says it completed proportionate checks and there were no signs of financial 
vulnerability.
Our investigator upheld Miss As complaint. He said the information Virgin Money gathered 
showed signs that Miss A would not be able to repay the credit sustainably. He confirmed 
that in relation to the separate complaint point about her DSAR (Data Subject Access 
Request) Miss A had agreed that she would follow the steps in Virgin Moneys letter. 
Virgin Money disagreed with the assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. It said 
Miss A had more disposable income than our analysis showed as she only paid £130 of the 
mortgage, and one missed payment would not be a reason to decline an application.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Miss As complaint. 
Virgin Money needed to take reasonable steps to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss A could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and Miss As income and expenditure. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that Virgin Money should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss A. These factors might 
include Miss As income, how much the repayments were, the frequency of the borrowing 
and how long Miss A had been indebted. 
This means in this case I need decide if Virgin Money carried out proportionate checks; if so, 
did it make fair lending decisions; and if not what would better checks most likely have 
shown. I will also consider if Virgin Money acted unfairly towards Miss A in some other way. 
I can see Virgin Money asked for some information from Miss A when she applied. It asked 
for her employment details and for her gross annual income. It verified this with a credit 
reference agency by checking her current account turnover. It carried out a credit check to 
understand her credit history and existing credit commitments. It asked about her household 
income and her residential status. From these checks it concluded Miss A would be able to 
afford the card.
I think these checks were proportionate, and I think Virgin Moneys point is reasonable that it 
did not need to take into account the whole mortgage payment as this was shared  Miss A 
had confirmed her contribution was £130. And this means she had more than £60 
disposable monthly income. However, even accepting this, I dont think Virgin Money made 
a fair lending decision based on the information it gathered. Ill explain why.
Miss As declared her gross annual income was £27,125. The lender could see her existing 
credit commitments were £285 each month and this meant by giving a card with a £3,700 
limit, and assuming a sustainable monthly repayment, it was increasing the amount Miss A 
would need to spend on unsecured credit to around a third of her take home pay. At this 
level I think Virgin Money ought to have realised there was a high risk she would not be able 
to sustainably repay the credit  so without borrowing to repay, or suffering other financial 
harm. And it needed to consider this  not just the pounds and pence affordability.
It follows I find Virgin Money was wrong to give the credit card to Miss A. And logically, this 
means it also ought not to have increased her limit in January 2022.
I have not seen that Virgin Money acted unfairly toward Miss A in some other way.
Putting things right
As I dont think Virgin Money ought to have opened the account, I dont think its fair for it to 
be able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But I do think Miss A 
should pay back the capital she has borrowed as she has had the benefit of that money. 
Therefore, Virgin Money should: 
- Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (which have not 
already been refunded) that have been applied. 
- If this results in Miss A having made overpayments these should be refunded to Miss A 
along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date of overpayment to the date of 
settlement)*. 
- If this will result in an outstanding balance, Virgin Money should agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Miss A. 
- Once Miss A has cleared any outstanding capital balance, any adverse information in 
relation to the account should be removed from her credit file. 
*If Virgin Money deducts tax from the interest element of this award, it should provide Miss A with the 
appropriate tax certificate so she can submit a claim to HMRC if applicable. 
My final decision
I am upholding Miss As complaint. Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, must put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman