DRN-3608922
The complaint
This complaint is about a short-term bridging loan that Mr M borrowed from Social Money 
Limited (SML) in 2019. Hes unhappy that SML switched the terms of the offer from twelve to 
six months at short notice, and increasing the interest rate and fees. He says this forced him 
into taking out a loan that he wouldnt be able to pay back when it fell due, resulting in 
massive financial loss to him. As a remedy, Mr M says SML must recalculate what he owes 
on it on the original terms he was offered.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr M and SML. Im also aware that 
the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has been sent 
to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. Our decisions are published, 
and its important that I dont include any information that might result in Mr M being 
identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words, rounding the figures involved, 
and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint.
Mr M had a first mortgage on his own home with a lender Ill call B; he also owed money to a 
private individual Ill call J. The debt to J was the subject of court proceedings and by 
June 2019, Mr M was facing a threat of eviction unless he repaid the debt. He approached a 
specialist broker firm that Ill call F, and F arranged for an application to be made to SML for 
a bridging loan to repay J. SML issued an offer for a twelve-month bridging loan, subject to 
valuation and underwriting. 
Mr M accepted the initial offer, but the money couldnt be released immediately, as SML 
needed to obtain Bs consent to the loan going ahead. This took until mid-September 2019, 
by which time SML had changed the basis on which it was willing to lend to Mr M. It issued a 
revised offer on less favourable terms; the rate and fees were higher, but most crucially, the 
term was for just six months. Mr M accepted the offer: the gross loan was around £116,000; 
after fees, the amount available for release was around £96,000. The money was drawn 
down, and J was repaid.
In March 2020, when the bridging loan fell due for repayment, Mr M was unable to repay it; 
SML called in the loan. With late payment interest and penalty fees, as provided for in the 
loan agreement, SML was demanding around £174,000, albeit that might not be the final 
figure, as interest and fees continued to accrue. SML started possession proceedings; 
meanwhile Mr M brought a complaint to this service. He also asked us to stop SMLs 
possession action. 
We explained that we couldnt order SML to stop its legal action; we could only ask it if it was 
willing to whilst we looked into the complaint. We did that, but SML declined and instead 
continued with enforcement of its legal charge. The case went to court and in 
November 2021, the court granted a possession order in SMLs favour. Mr M has moved 
out.
Initially, SML didnt think we should consider the complaint, on the grounds it had already 
been decided in court. However, as there was no money judgement with the possession 
order, we could still consider the essence of the complaint, which was that SML should 
revert to the original terms offered in July 2019 when deciding how much Mr M will owe 
when the house is sold in possession.. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the main thrust of the complaint; he was satisfied SML could 
amend the offer, and that when it did so, it didnt treat Mr M unfairly. But he took the view 
that the first offer was issued prematurely, and raised Mr Ms expectations unreasonably. For 
that, he recommended SML pay Mr M £200 compensation. SML agreed to the proposed 
settlement, but Mr M wants the case referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the role of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
Firstly, Mr Ms extensive submissions and arguments notwithstanding, Im satisfied this was 
an unregulated loan. The broker F  which, incidentally, was Mr Ms agent in this transaction, 
not SMLs - is not authorised to arrange regulated loans, only unregulated loans. SML does 
provide regulated loans, but it only provides unregulated bridging loans. A bridging loan is 
unregulated if it is for business purposes, and that is how Mr Ms application was presented 
to SML. 
Mr M has said that all parties know the loan was to repay a personal rather than a business 
debt, but that he was told the only way to get it accepted was for him to sign a formal 
declaration that it was for business purposes. If true (and to be clear I make no finding either 
way) thats not helpful to Mr Ms case. All it tells me is that he claims to have made a false 
declaration and by doing so, colluded in obtaining a loan by deception. 
What this case really turns on, however, is whether SML was bound by the initial offer, such 
that it was obliged to lend on the terms set out therein. Having considered everything that 
both parties have said and provided, I cant fairly reach that conclusion. The offer document 
itself makes it clear that the offer is subject to valuation and underwriting, that SML can 
amend or withdraw the offer, and that once all underwriting and legal due diligence have 
been carried out, a final offer will be issued. There is nothing in the initial offer that binds 
SML to lend on the terms of that offer.
So SML could fairly and reasonably revise the terms on which it was willing to lend; 
furthermore the revised terms were themselves, a fair and reasonable reflection of SMLs 
lending policy. Like the investigator, the only justified criticism I can level at SML is that it 
issued a premature offer that gave Mr M unrealistic expectations, and led to inevitable disappointment when those expectations werent met. For that, I agree that £200 is fair 
compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part only. In full and final settlement, I direct Social Money Limited 
to pay Mr M £200. I make no other order or award.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman