DRN-3247935
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that he wasnt informed by American Express Services Europe Limited
(AESEL) that interest would continue to be applied to his account balance during a payment
holiday.
What happened
Mr K contacted American Express (Amex) in April 2020 and applied successfully for a
three-month payment holiday on his account because of an inability to work stemming from
UK Government measures put in place because of the emerging Covid-19 pandemic.
In June 2020 Mr K became aware that interest was still being applied to his account during
the payment holiday period. Mr K contacted Amex about this and was told that this was
correct and that while the need to make payments towards the account had been delayed by
three months, interest would continue to accrue. Mr K wasnt happy about this, so he raised
a complaint.
Amex looked at Mr Ks complaint. But they noted that the terms of the payment holiday that
Mr K had applied for included that interest would continue to accrue, and so they didnt feel
that theyd done anything wrong by applying that interest. However, Amex did reimburse one
of the interest payments, totalling approximately £82, to Mr K as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr K wasnt satisfied with Amexs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One
of our adjudicators looked at this complaint. They noted that Amex hadnt explained to Mr K
at the time that hed applied for the payment holiday that interest would continue to accrue.
Our adjudicator felt that it had been incumbent on Amex to have provided this information to
Mr K and that Mr K had incurred a detriment as a result, and so they recommended that this
complaint be upheld in Mr Ks favour and that Amex should make a further payment of £150
to Mr K to compensate him for the trouble this matter had caused.
Amex didnt agree with the recommendation put forwards by our adjudicator, and so the
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 10 December 2021 as follows:
On 9 April 2021, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published temporary 
guidance designed to offer protection to customers who might have encountered 
financial difficulty as a result of the measures put in place to combat the emergence 
of the Covid-19 virus. This guidance included that firms should offer three-month 
payment holidays to eligible customers, and that one of the conditions of these 
payment holidays was that interest would continue to accrue on a customers 
account during the payment holiday period.
However, the guidance also included that firms should clearly inform any customers 
applying for such a payment holiday that interest would continue on the account 
while the holiday was in force, so that the customer was aware of the consequences 
of accepting the payment holiday in regard to the ongoing accrual of interest.
A firm should give customers adequate information to enable them to 
understand the implications of a payment deferral, including the 
consequences of interest that is accrued during this period and its effect on 
the balance due under the agreement and on future payments.
In this instance, Mr K applied for the payment holiday via Amexs online chat service. 
And, having reviewed the transcripts of the conversations between Mr K and Amex, 
its clear that Amex didnt make any reference to the fact that interest would continue 
to accrue on the account as was required of them by the FCA guidance referenced 
above.
But, importantly, Im not convinced from the information Ive considered that Mr K 
would have declined the payment holiday, had he been made aware by Amex at the 
time that he was applying for the payment holiday that interest would continue to 
accrue on his account. And I say this because Mr K doesnt make any mention of this 
possibility either in his conversations with Amex or in his correspondence to this 
service. 
It also must be noted that Mr K did benefit from not having to make payments 
towards the account for three months during the payment holiday period, which took 
place at a time when many customers were struggling because of Covid-19 related 
financial reasons, which was the primary intention of the FCA guidance relating to the 
payment holiday for which Mr K applied. And indeed, Mr K confirmed in his initial 
conversation with Amex that he was applying for the payment holiday because of a 
lack of work because of Covid-19 measures.
As such, I dont feel that Amex acted unfairly towards Mr K by continuing to apply the
interest to his account during the payment holiday, and this is because it was always 
the case that the interest would need to be applied. And it follows from this that I 
dont feel that Amex should be asked to reimburse to Mr K the interest that accrued 
on the account during the holiday period as Mr K would like.
But, I do feel that Amex not clearly explaining to Mr K that the interest would continue 
to accrue during the payment holiday does constitute an unfair outcome to Mr K, 
although, as mentioned previously, Im not convinced that Mr K would have declined 
to go ahead with the payment holiday had the continuing accrual of interest been 
explained to him.
During the payment holiday, interest totalling approximately £235 accrued on Mr Ks
account. In their response to Mr Ks complaint, Amex reimbursed approximately £82 
of that accrued interest to Mr K. This feels fair to me, and while I appreciate that Mr K 
will disagree, Im satisfied that Amexs response here does represent a fair and 
reasonable resolution to Mr Ks complaint and I dont feel that any further instruction 
of compensation is warranted in this instance.
I note that our adjudicator had recommended that this complaint be upheld in Mr Ks 
favour and that Amex should make a further payment of £150 to Mr K. But I dont share our adjudicators opinion on this matter, and I feel that the reimbursement 
already provided by Amex to Mr K fairly compensates him for not being informed that 
interest would continue to accrue during the payment holiday, which as mentioned, 
Mr K has had the benefit of, which he applied for at a time of need, and which I feel 
he would in all likelihood have gone ahead with had he been informed when he 
applied that the interest would continue to accrue.
As such, my provisional decision here is that I wont be upholding this complaint or
instructing Amex to take any further action at this time.
In my provisional decision letter, I invited both Mr K and Amex to provide any comments or 
further information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final decision. Amex 
didnt provide any comments, whereas Mr K did submit some additional points that he 
wished me to consider.
Firstly, Mr K stated that he felt it wasnt reasonable for a company such as Amex, with the 
resources they have available, to not have produced some form of Key Features document 
to be provided to either their customers or their staff before the payment holidays were 
introduced. 
I can appreciate Mr Ks position here, but it must be remembered that business such as 
Amex were themselves experiencing the effects of Covid-19 at that time, including an 
absence of staff and significant changes in the working environment. It also must be 
remembered that the publishing of the FCA guidance and the implementation of that 
guidance happened unusually fast in this instance, given that the guidance was a response 
to a rapidly emerging global pandemic, and as such I dont feel that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to issue any further instruction against Amex in this instance.
Mr K has also stated that if he was told that interest would accrue on his account during the 
payment holiday period then he wouldnt have gone ahead and accepted the payment 
holiday. But the purpose of the payment holiday guidance was to assist consumers who 
couldnt afford to make the payments that were due on their account as a result of the 
financial impact of Covid-19, and Mr K proactively applied for this payment holiday. And, as 
per the transcript of Mr Ks online initial chat with Amex, he confirmed to Amex that Covid-19 
related matters were having an effect on his financial position at that time. 
While I appreciate Mr Ks stated position here, it must be acknowledged that Mr Ks is stating 
this position with the benefit of hindsight. And Im not convinced, that at the time that Mr K 
applied for the payment holiday, that he would have declined the payment holiday, given that 
Im satisfied that Mr K applied for the payment holiday at a time of need and that he 
benefitted from the payment holiday in the manner intended by the provision of the payment 
holiday.
Finally, it also must be noted that if I were to consider instructing Amex to reimburse the 
interest accrued on the account during the payment holiday, then I would only do so on the 
provision that Amex then report Mr Ks account to the credit reference agencies as being in 
an arrangement at that time  which may adversely impact Mr Ks credit score, but which 
hasnt happened in this instance. 
This is because the requirement for credit providers to make such reports was only 
suspended by the FCA for the purposes of these three-month payment holidays, the 
structure of which included that interest would continue to accrue on the account. And I 
wouldnt consider it fair for Mr K to not accrue interest on the account during the payment 
holiday period while simultaneously receiving the benefit of not having the payment holiday 
reported as an arrangement on his credit file.All of which means that it remains my position that the response that Amex have already 
issued in regard to Mr Ks complaint here, including the reimbursement of interest already 
provided to Mr K, already represents a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint. And 
it follows from this that my final decision here will be that I wont be upholding this complaint 
or instructing Amex to take any further action at this time. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr K wanted, but I trust that hell understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman