DRN-3615367
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard unfairly registered a 
default on her credit file.
What happened
Mrs N says she didnt remember to make a payment to Barclaycard for her credit card 
account due to work commitments and due to living abroad. She says she spoke to 
Barclaycard in March 2022 and says she wasnt told that her debt had been passed to a 
debt collection agency and wasnt told a default had been registered. Mrs N says 
Barclaycard could have called her or e-mailed her about the account but wrote to her at a 
previous address. She says she has now paid off the balance but would like the default 
removed from her credit file. Mrs N says she couldnt access her account online in early 
2022 and believes she may have told Barclaycard about her new address before March 
2022.
Barclaycard says Mrs N missed required contractual payments from October 2021 until the 
account was repaid in April 2022. It says it sent Mrs N a number of arrears letters as well as 
required default letters to the address it held for her. Barclaycard says Mrs N updated her 
address in March 2022 and it correctly registered a default on Mrs Ns credit file in February 
2022. It says Mrs N told it that she had forgotten to pay her credit card account from October 
onwards.
Mrs N brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Barclaycard was entitled to register a default when there was about five 
months of missed payments. And that it was Mrs Ns responsibility to update her address. 
The investigator thought Barclaycard had sent a number of letters about the arrears and it 
was up to it to decide how it communicates with its customers.
Mrs N doesnt accept that view and says she wasnt told when she called Barclaycard in 
March 2022 that she needed to repay the full balance and maintains she wasnt told the debt 
would be passed to a collection agency.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I confirm I 
have listened to Mrs Ns telephone calls to us.
Im satisfied that Mrs N was obliged in line with agreed account terms and conditions to 
make monthly credit card account repayments to Barclaycard. I appreciate Mrs N says she 
was busy, but Im satisfied this was her account and her responsibility to manage it as well 
as make required payments. Having looked at Barclaycards records I can see Mrs M 
missed required payments from October 2021 onwards until the account was repaid in April 
2022. 
So, I dont think Barclaycard made a mistake in those circumstances by writing to Mrs N 
about the arrears. Im satisfied that it sent Mrs N required default letters and that Mrs N 
ought to have been aware that she owed Barclaycard money as she made a payment 
towards her debt in September 2021. The Information Commissioners Office provides 
guidance on the registration of defaults and says one ought to be registered between three 
and six months of arrears. So, I dont think Barclaycard made a mistake or acted unfairly by 
registering the default in February 2022.
I appreciate Mrs N says she wasnt told to make a payment when she called Barclaycard in 
March 2022 and wasnt told the debt was being passed to a collection agency. Im satisfied 
that by that stage the default had been registered so I dont think it makes any difference 
what Mrs N was told then and I dont see what difference the debt being passed to a third 
party makes. I also appreciate Mrs N questions why Barclaycard didnt try and call or e-mail 
her. But I have made clear that this was Mrs Ns account and it was up to her to make sure 
she made the payments. I dont think its Barclaycards responsibility to remind its customers 
in that way that payments had been missed and, in any event, I can see it sent Mrs N 
numerous letters to the address it held on its records. I find it was Mrs Ns responsibility to 
update her address and am satisfied that during a telephone call to this service, Mrs N 
accepted that she hadnt done so. I have not seen any evidence that the address was 
updated until March 2022.
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclaycard was entitled to register a default on Mrs Ns credit file 
in circumstances where there had been several months of missed contractual repayments. I 
find Barclaycard wrote to Mrs N and that it was her responsibility to make those payments. I 
have made clear that I dont think the events after the default date are particularly relevant or 
that it made any difference that a third-party collection agency was used.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman