DRN-1705972
 
 
Complaint
Mrs G says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) with a store card she 
took out at a well-known retail store in 2003. 
The credit facility for the card account was provided by a high street bank, but there has 
been a recent change in the company which is responsible for answering these types of 
complaint. The company now responsible is called AXA France IARD. Ill therefore refer 
mainly to AXA France IARD throughout this decision, for consistency.
Background
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in February 2020 about this case, setting 
out why I thought the complaint should be upheld I have attached a short summary of this 
below. I also asked both parties to provide any further submissions or information to me 
within one month. This is what I said:
Summary - Provisional Decision
The PPI was taken out in the shop and added after Mrs G signed an application form, 
most probably at the counter. Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and provided a 
view that it shouldnt be upheld. Mrs G disagreed and so its been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Having done this, Im intending to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. I was sent the agreement Mrs 
G signed when she took out the account and PPI. And I can certainly see quite a few ways 
in which this form could have been set out in a much more comprehensive and clearer way. 
As far as the PPI authority is concerned, the form is very poorly designed.
Specifically, I can see there were some boxes at the top of the form which required 
the consumer to confirm she met certain eligibility criteria. Not only was this section quite 
small, the question about confirming she worked more than 16 hours wasnt ticked, whilst 
other parts were. I consider this to be an obvious flaw in an already poorly designed 
document. Its not clear that her eligibility was discussed or even pointed out to her.
We know that consumers who worked less than 16 hours werent eligible for this type of 
PPI and Ive spoken with Mrs G who has confirmed she worked in a job that quite often saw 
her working only a few hours a week. She is able to remember this by referring back to 
her childrens ages at the time of the sale. I therefore think its likely she wasnt eligible.It seems to me AXA France IARD has no information which contradicts this. I also note 
the form was marked with an x beside where the shop assistant wanted her to sign her 
name.
This too, in my view, would be a reason to uphold this complaint because I dont think 
the assistant had any business in influencing Mrs G where to sign.
So I dont need to look at any other aspects of this case because from what Ive seen, 
its more likely that Mrs G wasnt eligible for the PPI she was sold. AXA France IARD 
cannot show me she was eligible, so Im intending to uphold her complaint.
My findings
Ive now fully reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having done that, theres no 
reason for me to change the findings I set out in my provisional decision. I'm fully upholding 
the complaint.
What AXA France IARD should do to put things right
AXA France IARD should put Mrs G in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already and AXA France 
IARD should: 
Pay Mrs G the amount she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year
If Mrs G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA France IARD  can take 
off what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA France IARD to take off tax from this interest. It 
must give Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Gs complaint and direct AXA France IARD to 
pay compensation as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mrs G to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman