DRN-1978955
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited have declined to cover a claim she 
made on her private medical insurance policy in full. 
What happened
Mrs H had a fall and went to an NHS hospital. She says she was seen there a number of 
times but they couldnt find the source of her pain so she was discharged. Mrs H contacted 
AXA to ask for a consultation with a consultant shed previously seen in relation to her back. 
Ill refer to that consultant as Dr S.
In summary, Mrs H received surgical treatment on her back which has been successful. 
However, AXA hasnt authorised the claim because they say it wasnt conventional treatment 
and so it isnt covered under the policy terms. They referred to the National Institute Health 
and Care Excellent (NICE) in support of their position to reject the claim. Mrs H is unhappy 
because its left her with a bill of around £12 000. She also told us that AXA confirmed to the 
hospital that treatment was authorised. AXA says thats not right and it was made clear to 
the hospital that treatment hadnt been authorised. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and noted that the anaesthetist had been 
paid and that AXA appeared to have authorised Mrs Hs inpatient stay, but not the surgery. 
Having looked at the claim again they also agreed to pay some of the other costs on the 
invoice. Theyve sent an updated statement to Mrs H detailing what they have, and havent 
covered. 
The investigator issued an opinion on Mrs Hs complaint about the surgery not being 
covered. He didnt uphold the complaint as he thought AXA made it clear to the hospital that 
they werent authorising the treatment. He also thought that AXA had acted in line with the 
policy terms when declining the claim on the basis that it wasnt conventional treatment. 
Mrs H didnt agree. Her representative argued that AXAs agreement to pay some of the 
further costs meant that they have admitted a mistake was made but still arent paying the 
full amount. In summary, Mrs H and her representative say that AXA should pay the full 
amount. They also reiterated the importance of the call recordings. So, I need to make a 
decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. The key issue in this 
case is whether it is fair for AXA to decline to cover the cost of Mrs Hs spinal surgery and 
the associated costs of it. 
The policy terms and conditions form the contract of insurance. The policy terms and 
conditions explain that private health insurance is designed to add to, not replace the NHS. It 
goes on to explain that sometimes there are conditions and treatments which the NHS is 
best at handling  emergencies are given as the example. 
The policy also sets out that only eligible treatment is covered. Eligible treatment is defined 
as 
Treatment of a disease, illness or injury where that treatment:
Falls within the benefits of this policy and is not excluded from cover by any 
term in this handbook; and 
Is of an acute condition
Is conventional treatment
Is not preventative 
Does not cost more than an equivalent treatment that is as likely to deliver a 
similar therapeutic or diagnostic outcome; and 
Is not provided or used primarily for the convenience or financial or other 
advantage of you or your specialise or other health professional. 
Conventional treatment is defined as: 
Treatment that:
Is established as best medical practice and is practised widely within the UK; 
and
Is clinically appropriate in terms of necessity, type, frequency, extent, duration 
and the facility of location where the treatment is provided; and has either
Been shown to be safe and effective for the treatment of your medical 
condition, through substantive peer reviewed clinical evidence in published 
authoritative medical journals; or
Been approved by NICE as a treatment which may be used in routine 
practice.  
has AXA acted unfairly by refusing to cover the costs of the surgery? 
Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint for the reasons Ill go on to explain.
Although AXA has, more recently, agreed to pay some of the additional costs for Mrs Hs 
stay in hospital it doesnt automatically follow that this complaint should be upheld in. So, I 
need to decide whether its fair for AXA to decline the remaining part of the claim, including 
whether it was made clear to Mrs H that the treatment for her spinal surgery wasnt 
authorised. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA to conclude that this treatment wasnt covered 
under the policy. As Ive outlined above the policy only covers eligible treatment which is 
conventional. For this particular treatment that needs to include a multi-disciplinary team 
(MDT) considering the case and other conservative medical management which should be 
attempted first. 
Ive taken into account the letter from Dr S which says that there wasnt time to wait for an 
MDT and that Mrs H wasnt responding to intravenous pain relief. He says that he spoke to 
all of the relevant people on the MDT and it was agreed the surgery was the best option. However, Dr S hasnt provided any detail about what was discussed with the other 
specialists he spoke to or any record of the options that were discussed. And, whilst I can 
understand Mrs H was in a lot of pain, shed only received the injury a few days before the 
operation took place. Theres no evidence that any other options were considered and 
discounted by the treating team. So, Dr Ss letter hasnt changed my thoughts about the 
outcome of this complaint. 
I also think AXA made it clear to the hospital in the phone calls, including on the morning of 
the surgery, that they had not yet authorised treatment for the surgery, although they had 
agreed to Mrs H being kept at the hospital. I cant say why the hospital didnt pass this 
information on to Mrs H. But I think AXA made their position on this point clear. 
The policy also isnt designed to cover emergency treatment. Mrs H was referred to Dr S by 
her GP on 15 March, admitted to hospital on 18 March and surgery took place on 21 March.  
AXA asked to speak to Mrs H on 19 March, after speaking with the hospital staff about her 
admission but the line rang out. And Mrs Hs representative also called but they didnt have 
authority to speak to him. There were discussions about arranging to speak to Mrs H but 
AXA didnt hear from her. So, whilst I understand that Mrs H was unwell and in pain, I dont 
think AXA had much of an opportunity to speak with her and that it wasnt unreasonable in 
the circumstances for them to rely on the hospital to pass on information in the 
circumstances of this case.  
Even if I thought AXA could have done more to contact Mrs H I dont think this ultimately 
changes my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint. Its clear to me that Mrs H had 
lost confidence in the NHS hospitals having been told by them that she didnt have any 
issues with her spine. I also bear in mind that shed been admitted and that the surgery was 
booked in. So, it seems unlikely to me that shed have cancelled the surgery and returned to 
the NHS hospital if shed been told that AXA wouldnt cover it. She had used the services of 
Dr S previously and so it seems more likely to me that shed have gone ahead with his 
recommendation to have the surgery.  
 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman