DRN-1760812
 
The complaint
Mr M has complained about his buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage with Barclays Bank UK Plc. He is 
unhappy that when he took out a five-year fixed interest rate product in 2015 the interest rate 
was applied for slightly longer than five years. Mr M says that he wasnt told that the term 
was actually longer than five years until after the product had been put into place. Because 
of this, Mr M says the mortgage was mis-sold.
What happened
Mr M has a BTL mortgage with Barclays which, at the time of the events complained about, 
was on a five-year fixed rate product arranged by Mr M in December 2014. The product 
started on 3 January 2015 and Mr M believed the product was due to end five years later on 
3 January 2020.
Mr M knew he could arrange a new product 90 days before the expiry of his existing product 
and so in October 2019 he spoke to Barclays to arrange this. But Mr M was told that this 
couldnt be progressed because his five-year fixed rate mortgage didnt end until 2 April 
2020. Mr M says this was a major shock to him. 
Mr M reviewed the documentation from 2015 and noted that the product switch letter dated 
13 February 2015 showed the end date as being 2 April 2020. Mr M is unhappy about this, 
as he said he didnt receive the documents until seven weeks after hed arranged the 
product on 19 December 2014.
Mr M complained to Barclays. He said it was gross misconduct for Barclays to sell a five-
year product and then send documentation two months later adding another four months to 
the product term. This meant hed be tied in to an early repayment charge (ERC) if he tried 
to switch to a new product before the product ended.
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint so Mr M brought it to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Initially the investigator thought the complaint should be upheld, but after receiving 
further information from Barclays, he didnt think the bank had done anything wrong.
Mr M didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
Mr M has reiterated that he didnt receive the full details of the product until six weeks after 
the mortgage began and almost two months after the application had been submitted. Mr M 
acknowledges that he didnt check the end date of the product but he also believes Barclays 
has acted unfairly by sending the letter out six weeks after the mortgage began. 
Mr M believes a fair outcome would have been to have allowed him to switch to a new 
product on 3 January 2020 without incurring an ERC.
On 31 March 2020 Mr M arranged a new two-year fixed rate mortgage product with 
Barclays. This has an assumed start date of 1 April 2020 and the fixed rate runs from the 
date of completion until 2 May 2022 (so more than two years from the date the product 
begins). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I have to decide what I think it most likely 
to have happened, based on the balance of probabilities and looking at the available 
evidence. 
The events complained about are now historical, because the period within which an ERC 
applied on the five-year product expired on 2 April 2020 and Mr M has now moved onto a 
new mortgage product.
When Barclays offers a fixed rate mortgage product, this is because the bank has itself 
borrowed funds in the wider money markets, with a set repayment date. That is why its fixed-
rate mortgage products also have a set repayment date, in order to tie in with the banks own 
borrowing obligations. 
A fixed-rate product will be offered for a certain period of time, until all the funds borrowed for 
that specific product have been used. Borrowers dont all apply for the product on the same 
date, and it would be too complicated for the banks own internal systems for there to be 
separate repayment dates on a single product. So the product will always have an end date 
which would not necessarily correlate with the anniversary of the date the product is taken 
out.
I note that on Barclays website the end date of its fixed-rate mortgage products are shown, 
so even if a mortgage is described as a two-year fixed rate, the end date will be a specified 
period which may be shorter or longer than two years.
Although Mr M says this is a regulated mortgage contract, it is a BTL mortgage and so is 
unregulated. Mr M is considered to be a commercial borrower and as such Barclays is under 
no obligation to give him mortgage advice. Rather, it is up to Mr M to select the product 
which best suits his needs. Im satisfied Barclays did not give Mr M advice when he took out 
the product in 2014.
There are no longer any records from the discussions Mr M had with the branch adviser in 
December 2014, so I have to look at the available evidence. I can see from Barclays 
records that Mr M called on 15 December 2014 to make an appointment to discuss his BTL 
rate switch. Mr M went into the branch on 19 December 2014 to submit the application and 
to provide copies of documents Barclays needed (the tenancy agreement and proof of 
identity for Mr M). 
Ive looked at the application printout Mr M has supplied. This shows that Mr M had chosen 
the product himself. I note it is described as a 5Yr Fixed Rate 4.49% but, as I have stated 
above, the end date would not generally be five years from the date the product was taken 
out. 
On balance, taking into account the available evidence, Im not persuaded Barclays misled 
Mr M about the length of the fixed-rate mortgage term. I say this because Barclays policy is 
to show the end dates of its fixed rates on its website. I think given this that its unlikely that 
Mr M was told in branch that the interest rate product hed chosen would end on 3 January 
2020. It may well be that he misunderstood the position, but as Barclays didnt give Mr M 
any advice  either by telephone or in the branch  the bank isnt responsible for this.
 Mr M said that after he received the product documentation in February 2015 he didnt query 
this sooner because the letter went to the wrong address. But Mr M accepts that he did 
receive the letter. Its clear from that letter that the end date of the product, and the period 
within which the ERC will apply, is 2 April 2020.
I also note that the new interest rate product Mr M has taken out  a two-year fixed rate  is 
due to end not on the two-year anniversary of when Mr M took it out, but a month after that. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for. I appreciate he feels aggrieved that 
the fixed rate on his BTL mortgage ran for several months longer than he thought it would. 
But after considering all the available evidence, Im not persuaded that this mortgage was 
mis-sold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman