The complaint
Miss P says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a regular payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy to cover her store card repayments.  
What happened
Miss P took out a store card in April 1997. At the same time she took out a PPI policy to 
cover her card repayments. The policy cost £1 per £100 of the balance on Miss Ps store 
card. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the 
store card if Miss P was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost her job. The 
benefit would continue to be paid until Miss P returned to work.
Our adjudicator didnt think Miss Ps complaint should be upheld because he thought the 
policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Miss P.
Miss P disagrees. So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ps complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ps complaint.
The PPI was applied for in store when Miss P applied for a store card. Theres limited 
information available to me about what happened at the time of sale. Because of this, I dont 
know what may or may not have been said. So I have to decide whats more likely to have 
happened based on the information Ive been given.
AXA had to make sure the policy was presented as optional and that Miss P agreed to take 
it. Ive looked at the credit agreement that she signed and I think it was clear the PPI was 
optional and that Miss P chose to take it.
I say this because I can see that in the section that deals with PPI theres a tick next to the 
words Yes, I want my Account covered by Payment & Purchase Protection. If Miss P 
didnt want PPI she couldve left the section blank like she did for the other optional sections. 
So I think Miss P had PPI because she chose to take it.
I dont think AXA advised Miss P to take PPI. What this means is that AXA didnt recommend 
PPI to Miss P based on her circumstances, they just gave her information about PPI and it 
DRN-1856069was up to Miss P to decide if the policy was right for her. This information needed to be given 
in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so she could make an informed choice about 
buying PPI.
AXA say that sufficient information wouldve been provided at the point of sale to allow Miss 
P to make an informed choice on whether to add PPI to her account. But I cant say whether 
this information was good enough. That being said even if AXA did give all the information 
Miss P needed to make an informed choice on taking out the policy, I think she wouldve still 
taken the policy because at the time of sale from what we know about the policies sold:
She was eligible for the PPI.
Although Miss P tells us she suffered from a pre-existing medical condition, from what
shes told us it looks like she started suffering from this condition after the sale. So
because she didnt have this medical condition when sold the policy I dont think that
exclusions that related to medical conditions under the policy wouldve changed her
mind about buying it. And it doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by any of the
other main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it
difficult to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Miss P says she was entitled to a good level of sick pay which
she could use to make her repayments if she couldnt work but had no other means
of making her repayments. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid out on top
of any work benefits and for potentially longer. So I think the policy still wouldve
provided a useful benefit for Miss P in her situation and I cant see how knowing this
information wouldve changed her mind.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Miss P (I can see she paid
less than £10 in premiums in total) and she could cancel the policy if she no longer
wanted it.
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Miss P on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold Miss Ps complaint against AXA France IARD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman