DRN-3590049
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the settlement offer theyve been provided with, under their 
travel insurance policy. Their travel insurance policy was held with Mapfre Asistencia, 
Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S held an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy with Mapfre, between 4 
September 2019 and 3 September 2020. The policy provided Mr and Mrs S with cover for 
any number of trips during that time. Including cover for both pre-departure and post-
departure risks.
During this period of insurance, Mr and Mrs S were due to take a holiday abroad. The trip 
was due to begin on 9 May 2020, with them due to return to the UK on 23 May 2020. But the 
trip was unfortunately cancelled, due to the impact of travel restrictions related to the 
Coronavirus pandemic.
Mr and Mrs S were able to secure a refund of their flights, from the airline they were due to 
travel with. But they werent able to secure a refund for the villa accommodation they had 
booked to stay in. So, they made a claim under the cancellation section of their policy, for 
the cost of the villa that theyd lost. And they provided Mapfre with evidence of the villas cost 
 which was £1,958.57.
Mapfre considered Mr and Mrs S claim. And they accepted it. Mapfre offered Mr and Mrs S 
£979.46 in settlement of their claim  minus the applicable excess. As this wasnt the total 
cost of the villa Mr and Mrs S didnt consider this to be fair.
Mapfre explained its settlement offer. It said its offer was based on 50% of the villas cost. It 
said this was because the villa booking showed that the villa was booked for four people. But 
Mr and Mrs S were the only people covered under their policy. So, they were only entitled to 
their proportion of the villas total cost. Which was 50% of it.
Mr and Mrs S didnt think this was fair. They said:
Theyd paid for the whole villa  with no contribution from anyone else.
Theyd initially intended for Mrs S parents to come and stay with them in the villa. 
But, prior to the holidays cancellation, it had already been decided Mrs S parents 
wouldnt be coming on holiday with them, due to their ill health.
They were intending on continuing with their holiday, with them going alone. And 
noted they would have done so  had it not been for the cancellation as a result of 
the pandemic. 
The villa required confirmation on those attending, prior to arrival. And they would 
have updated this information. But they never had the opportunity to do this  given 
the holiday was then cancelled due to the impact of the pandemic. 
The price of the villa was not per person, but for the villa as a whole. So, whilst it had 
the capacity to accommodate eight people, this was irrelevant. They would have 
been staying in it, as just two people anyway.
Mapfre maintained its position on the matter. It noted that the policy didnt provide cover for 
costs related to anyone else but Mr and Mrs S. It however offered Mr and Mrs S £150 
compensation, for the time Mapfre had taken to provide the outcome on the claim. 
As Mr and Mrs S remained dissatisfied, they referred their complaint to this service, for an 
independent review.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They were 
satisfied that the settlement Mapfre had offered Mr and Mrs S was in line with the terms and 
conditions of their policy.
Our investigator highlighted that the terms of Mr and Mrs S policy clearly explained that the 
policy would only cover the unused travel expenses of those insured under the policy - 
paying only their proportion of the costs, regardless of who paid for a booking. So, the 
investigator didnt recommend Mapfre increase its settlement offer. Our investigator also 
considered the £150 compensation to be fair. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. They reiterated their thoughts on the matter, as noted in the 
bullet points above. And they said that after having held travel insurance for many years, this 
was the first time they had to claim. With the experience being stressful and concerning.
Because Mr and Mrs S didnt agree, their complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below. 
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether Mapfre 
acted in line with these requirements, when it offered Mr and Mrs S the settlement of 
£979.46, minus their excess.
Ive reviewed Mr and Mrs S policy documentation. And I can see that the policy does 
provide cover for the cancellation of a trip, in certain situations. One of these situations is 
where travel cant commence to the intended destination due to Foreign, Commonwealth 
and Development Office (FCDO) advice advising against all, or all but essential travel to the 
location. Mr and Mrs S holiday was cancelled because of FCDO advice of this nature. So, 
Im satisfied Mapfre acted reasonably in accepting Mr and Mrs S claim was covered under 
this section of the policy.
I can also see that Mr and Mrs S policy explains the following, in relation to settling claims 
under the cancellation section:
We will only consider the unused expenses of a person who has taken out insurance cover 
with [company name redacted]. For example, if you are travelling with someone who is not 
insured, we only pay your proportion of costs, not theirs, regardless of who paid for the 
booking.Mr and Mrs S are the only people insured under their policy. So, Im aware they are only 
able to claim for their proportion of costs.
And Im satisfied its reasonable for Mapfre to conclude that Mr and Mrs S proportion of the 
cost is 50% of the villa fee - given there were four people the villa was booked to benefit. 
Mapfres policy makes it clear it wont pay for anyone elses proportion  regardless of who 
paid for it. And so, whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs S paid the total accommodation cost, the 
policy doesnt entitle them to this full amount. So, Im satisfied Mapfre has acted fairly and 
reasonably, by settling the claim on this basis. It is in line with the policy terms.
Mr and Mrs S have raised various points about the accommodation. Including that the 
amount charged for the villa was not per head, and that their relatives had already decided 
not to come on the trip, prior to its cancellation due to coronavirus. But these dont make a 
difference to the outcome of this complaint. As above, its clear the trip was booked with four 
people in mind. So, its reasonable the proportion of costs for each person are split that way 
 regardless of whether that was how the villa chose to charge or not, or a later change in 
plans.
Mr and Mrs S have raised that this was the first time theyve needed to claim  and 
highlighted the stress and upset the settlement offer provided to them has caused. And I do 
acknowledge this. But I need to look at the specific policy held, as well as the specific claim. 
And for the reasons set out above, Im satisfied Mapfre has acted fairly and reasonably, and 
in line with the policy terms. So, Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Mr and Mrs S have also raised the service they received when making their claim. They 
noted they made the claim on 7 April 2020. But it took around five months for an outcome on 
the claim to be provided. Theyve also noted they had to make a number of calls to progress 
the claim. Mapfre has accepted that the outcome of the claim wasnt provided in the 
timeframe it usually would be. It has accepted there were delays. So, I havent needed to 
consider that.
Rather, I have needed to think about whether the compensation offered to Mr and Mrs S in 
recognition of this, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Mapfre has offered Mr and 
Mrs S £150. Ive thought carefully about this. And Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable 
offer of compensation. I think £150 fairly recognises that Mr and Mrs S should have been 
provided with an outcome sooner  and takes into account the distress and inconvenience 
this would have caused them. So, I dont require it to increase this compensation amount. 
Its my understanding that Mapfre has already paid this to Mr and Mrs S. So, it doesnt need 
to do anything more in this regard.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to increase the 
settlement provided to Mr and Mrs S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Rachel WoodsOmbudsman