DRN-4285943
The complaint
Mrs P complains that misrepresentations were made when she acquired a used car from 
MotoNovo Finance Limited under a hire purchase agreement (HPA).
What happened
Mrs P took out this HPA in August 2020 for a nine year old used car with around 105,000
miles on the clock. In March the following year the car broke down and she took it back to
the supplying dealer. The dealer said there was a gear selection error but the problem
continued and the car went back again in May 2021, when gearbox fluid was topped up. In 
June 2021 (after shed covered about 3,000 miles) Mrs P was told there was excessive
leaking around the power steering and uneven alignment was causing wear on her tyres.
She had further issues over the next four months and took the car to a specialist technician
for this brand who said (among other things) the starter solenoid had failed, there was an oil
leak and the gearbox (which was manufactured by a third party that Ill call M) was harsh and
noisy on selection, because of a suspected internal pressure fault.
Mrs P was told that repair costs would be substantial and she complained to MotoNovo that
the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. MotoNovo asked for more
information and (when that wasnt provided) issued a final response rejecting the complaint.
MotoNovo thought it was for Mrs P to show that the car had faults present when she got it
as the quality issues were raised more than six months after supply. It offered to look at 
things again if she provided more evidence  such as a report from an independent expert - 
and said it would refund the cost of such a report (up to £250) if relevant faults were found.
Mrs P didnt think that was fair. She said she wasnt driving normally due to lockdown - or
these issues would have appeared much sooner, probably within 4 weeks. She referred the
matter to our service and a different ombudsman issued a decision on her quality complaint
in 2022. That ombudsman didnt think there was enough evidence to conclude that this car
was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
Mrs P also stated that misrepresentations were made at the outset. The first ombudsman 
was unable to deal with this in her decision but she said it was open to Mrs P to raise it with 
MotoNovo and bring another complaint to our service if she was unhappy with the response. 
Mrs P did so in July 2022 and, when MotoNovo didnt respond, she referred the matter to our
service. She said (in summary):-
the gearbox in her car was incompatible for this model at the time of purchase;
she was led to believe the car was a 4th generation new model and these models
(2011 -2013) dont have any engine components manufactured by M so her car is not
as described - contrary to section 9(2) Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA);
she wasnt told about any modifications, she reasonably assumed that this cars 
gearbox was made by the vehicle manufacturer (as its a fundamental part of a car) 
and, if the dealer had told her it didnt, she wouldnt have accepted the car and taken 
out the finance;
she wasnt given enough information about the car at the point of sale to enable her
to make an informed decision, the car is not as described or fit for purpose, it was
mis-sold and, by default, so was the HPA  as, under principle 7 of CONC, a firm 
must ensure that its employees and agents communicate information in a way which 
is clear, fair, and not misleading;
the supplying dealer guaranteed the car would come with a "brand new MOT and
service" but the last MOT was carried out by the previous owner and theres no
evidence the car was serviced - meaning the dealer provided false information, which
she relied on, contrary to Consumer Protection (Amendment) Regulations 2014;
the car is not safe and shes been too anxious to use it since July 2021, she relied on
family and taxis at first but had to acquire another car on finance - even though shes
still paying for this one;
the whole experience has been very distressing and caused immense anxiety and
financial loss so shed like the car to be collected and her expenses reimbursed with
interest plus compensation.
Our investigator considered the evidence and he wasnt persuaded that the car was
misrepresented. He accepted it was advertised as being a new model but, having
considered the specification and other information, he was satisfied this car is the new 
model referred to and the advertisement wasnt inaccurate in this respect. He noted the
advertisement also refers to a fantastic service history but he said thats not the same as a
full service history and he didnt think this was inaccurate either.
The investigator accepted the gearbox was manufactured by M but hes satisfied this is a
separate component to the engine, gearboxes experience wear and tear so may need to be
replaced during the lifetime of the vehicle and its not unusual for used cars to have non-
original parts such as this. Taking into account the cars age and mileage at the point of
supply, he thought a previous owner might have replaced the original gearbox and replacing
a part like this doesnt mean the car wasnt as advertised. He found it unlikely the gearbox
was incompatible because Mrs P was able to drive around 1,000 miles before any issues
appeared and the specialist technician didnt mention incompatibility.
The investigator didnt think there was enough evidence to find the car was mis-described or
misrepresented and he didnt recommend MotoNovo should have do anything further. Mrs P
disagreed and she asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. She said (in
summary):-
MotoNovo agreed that she was misled in an email and apologised but then focussed
on the quality complaint relying on fact she had the car for more than six months (the
six month rule in the CRA) which is based on the assumption a vehicle would have
driven 6,000 miles (on average) in that time so any fundamental problems would be
apparent;
shed only driven this car around 1,000 miles  the average equivalent of one month -
because of covid restrictions and, if shed been able to drive the car as normal, the
fault would probably have appeared within 4 weeks of purchase;
she was sold a car with an incompatible gearbox, which is the reason it broke down
after 1,000 miles and it has been diagnosed as unsafe to drive after many repairs 
and 4,000 miles;
the advertisement clearly stated that the next MOT was due to expire on 08/2021 
and the dealers website says all our cars are backed up by up to 6 months warranty 
and a full service and MOT before collection, but the last MOT before supply here 
(on 13 August 2020) was on 2 June 2020 by the previous owner; and 
the dealer may have carried out an MOT and full service in August but discovered a
leak in the gearbox and patched it up before sale.
Having considered the available evidence, I wasnt minded to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. My reasons werent quite the same as the investigators and I thought it was fair to give the 
parties the chance to see my provisional findings and respond (if they wanted) to before I 
made my final decision. I issued a provisional decision on 21 July 2023. Ive set out what I 
decided provisionally (and why) below (in italics)  this forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Both parties have provided a good deal of evidence here and made fairly detailed
submissions so Im going to have to summarise things in my decision. The rules of our
service allow me to do this. I want to assure both parties, if I dont mention every single point
thats been raised, its not because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything
thats been said and sent to us. Im going to concentrate however on what I consider is key
to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
I should also make it clear at the start that the Financial Ombudsman Service provides
alternative dispute resolution which is free to complainants. Im not a regulator. I dont have
the power to tell MotoNovo how to operate on a day to day basis and its not within my remit
to punish a financial business or any individual. My job here is to look at all of the information
available about this particular complaint, without taking sides, and consider the merits on a
fair and reasonable basis.
MotoNovo supplied this car to Mrs P under a HPA and it was obliged, under the CRA, to
ensure (amongst other things) that the car was as described and of satisfactory quality at the
point of supply. I can see that Mrs P remains unhappy about the quality of this car but thats
not something Im able to look at in this decision because her quality complaint has already
been determined by our service.
Im satisfied that this car should have been described accurately (under the CRA) and I can
also consider any representations made during the course of pre-sale negotiations in this
complaint against MotoNovo, under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Mrs P says a number of misrepresentations were made here  specifically the car was not a
4th generation model as set out in the advertisement and she was given incorrect
information about the MOT and service history. For me to uphold this part of her complaint,
Id need to be satisfied that its likely the dealer made misrepresentations (that is, told Mrs P
something that wasnt true) and that untrue statement induced her to accept the car and take
out the HPA.
I realise Mrs P is very disappointed with this car and I think its understandable she was
concerned to find it had a brand of gearbox fitted that she wasnt expecting. However for
much the same reasons as the investigator, Im not persuaded that means the car was
misrepresented or mis-described and Ill explain why in more detail below.
Im satisfied the gearbox forms part of a vehicles transmission. I can see (from an online
search) that some models of this brand were factory fitted with a transmission manufactured
by M (as the two brands were linked for a time). I cant be certain if that was the case here,
from the evidence Ive got. But, even if this car had a replacement gearbox, I cant fairly find
that means it wasnt as described - or it was misrepresented.
As the investigator explained, a gearbox is separate to the engine, its a part thats subject to
wear and tear and may need to be replaced from time to time. I dont think its out of theordinary for a gearbox to be replaced in a vehicle of this age and mileage. And replacing a
part like this isnt a modification (of the sort that might need to be notified to insurers, for
example) - so I wouldnt expect the dealer to point this out.
I understand Mrs P feels the gearbox fitted was incompatible but I find that unlikely. If it was
incompatible in some way, Id expect the specialist technician to have said so specifically, 
but he doesnt. And, considering the way a gearbox has to fit and work with the rest of a
vehicles transmission, I dont think an incompatible gearbox could be fitted and the car
would remain driveable. Im satisfied Mrs P was able to drive this car for around 1,000 miles
over several months before she had any issue.
Mrs P has also referred me to information in the advertisement and available on the dealers
website  where it says every car receives a full service and MOT before sale. She thinks
the dealer may have serviced this car, found a fault and fixed this before sale. I accept the 
original advertisement for the car states that the MOT would expire in August 2021 and it 
had a fantastic service history. Looking at the cars MOT history, the last MOT before 
supply was on in June 2020. I dont know why the advertisement referred to August instead - 
this may have been a typographical error  but I accept its not right.
As I explained earlier, for me to find misrepresentations were made here, Id need to be
satisfied not only that Mrs P was told something untrue but she also reasonably relied on this
when she made the decision to purchase. I think its unlikely  given all the considerations
that go into choosing a vehicle  that a difference of one month or so in the MOT expiry date
would materially influence most purchasers. Im satisfied it would have been fairly easy to
check the MOT date so, if this was of particular importance to Mrs P at the relevant time, I
consider it would have been reasonable for her to have done so.
Like the investigator, I dont think a fantastic service history is the same as a full service
history so I cant reasonably find this was misrepresented. Nor do I have sufficient evidence
to reasonably find Mrs P was misled about whether the car had a full service before supply.
Ive seen nothing to show that she saw the information on the dealers website before she
accepted this car. And, if even I was persuaded she reasonably relied on this, she seems to
accept the dealer did carry out a full service - so that wasnt misrepresented. 
I realise Mrs P thinks the dealer may have deliberately patched up a fault during the course 
of that full service but Ive seen nothing to show thats what happened. And, as I explained 
above, Im unable to look into quality issues further here as service has already issued a 
decision about that.
Ultimately, similarly to the MOT date, if the cars service history played a material part in Mrs
Ps decision to accept it, I think it would have been reasonable for her to check this before 
purchase. I cant see that she raised either the service history or the MOT expiry date for 
some time after she got the car which, I think, also suggests these werent particularly 
significant to her. It follows, Im not presently persuaded that the incorrect information
supplied is likely to have been a material factor in Mrs Ps decision to accept the car and
take out the finance. Taking everything Ive seen into account, I think its more likely than not 
this car was the new model described in the advertisement and I cant fairly find it was mis-
described or misrepresented. 
Mrs P has referred (in some of the correspondence Ive seen) to additional concerns about 
commission, interest and charges relating to the HPA. She hasnt raised those issues in her 
complaint form with our service however and I havent considered them here. So, if Mrs P 
remains unhappy with MotoNovos response to her complaint about interest, commission 
and fees, she may be able to raise a separate complaint with our service.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further 
comments or new evidence by 4 August 2023 and Id look at all the evidence available after 
that and make my final decision.
The time set for responses has now passed, Mrs R hasnt sent us anything else and 
MotoNovo has nothing further to add. I see no reasonable grounds to depart from my 
provisional decision in the circumstances. I remain of the view there arent sufficient fair and 
reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint and Im unable to require MotoNovo to do 
anything else. 
I realise this decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Mrs P and Im sorry if she feels 
let down. Mrs P isnt obliged however to accept what Ive said, in which case it remains open 
to her to pursue the matter by any other means that may be available. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman