DRN-2823213
The complaint
Mr T is complaining that Ikano Bank AB (publ) did not notify him a default would be
registered. Hes also unhappy with the registration date of the default.  
What happened
Mr T took out a loan with Ikano. He later experienced financial difficulties, so he came to an
arrangement with Ikano through a third party debt management charity who arranged lower
monthly payments.
As the monthly payments were lower than the contractual monthly payments Ikano sent a
default of notice, in line with the terms and conditions Mr T had agreed to. The account
defaulted and the default was registered with a date of 14 May 2015. The loan was sold to a
third party debt collector who also registered a default but with a later date.
Mr T complained to Ikano. He says he did not receive the default notice and didnt realise
that by making an arrangement with Ikano through the debt management charity that this
could result in a default. He asked for the defaults to be removed from his credit file from
both Ikano and the third party debt collector. He also wasnt happy that Ikano sold the debt
while he was maintaining the monthly repayments as part of an arrangement.
Ikano did not uphold his complaint. In summary they said, they sent the default notice to his
registered address, they felt the third party debt collector had the right experience to handle
his debt and that they had amended the default date to 14 October 2015 to reflect the actual
date the account should have been defaulted.
Mr T was unhappy with the response so brought his complaint to our service. He also said
that by moving the default date this impacted on his plans to buy a house as the default
would stay on his credit file longer than if he hadnt of complained.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint as they said although Ikano had changed the
date of the default it was now accurate. Mr T asked for his complaint to be referred to an
Ombudsman as he didnt agree with the view given.  
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at Mr Ts credit file I can see both defaults. One has been registered by Ikano and
the other one by the third party debt collector, which he doesnt feel is fair. Here, I can only
look at the actions of Ikano in relation to the information theyve recorded. I say this because
they sold the debt in 2020 (which they were entitled to do because there was provision within
the agreement) at which point it ceased to be their responsibility. Mr T can pursue a
complaint directly to the third party debt collector about the default they have recorded. But
for the avoidance of doubt I wont be making any further comment on the other default, as I
can only look at the issues relating to Ikanos actions.
What I have to consider first here is has Ikano treated Mr T unfairly in recording a default
because he says he didnt receive the default notice. Ikano have provided screenshots from
their computerised system to prove that the default notice was sent and to the registered
address they held for Mr T. So Im satisfied they did what they shouldve done.
Ive also looked at other information Ikano have provided. There is a note recorded four days
after the system registered the default notice being sent. This says, cust requested if default
could be removed. Ive thought about this and in my view this indicates Mr T received the
default notice because he was asking for it to be removed. As part of my review, I asked
Ikano for further any further information about this but they have said due to the passage of
time they cant now retrieve the call. I dont think this is surprising given the call took place
several years ago.
Ive also looked at the credit agreement. There is a section covering defaults (section 9).
This covers off any proposal to make a voluntary or any other arrangement. As an
arrangement was made through the debt management charity for a lower payment of the
contractual payment then I dont think it was unreasonable for Ikano to issue the default
notice. I say this because the arrangement was a long term plan so the debt wouldnt be
paid in line with the original agreement. As Ikano have a requirement to accurately reflect
payment history on a credit file I dont think they have acted unfairly in registering the default.
The default notice states that if no action is taken by the date shown that Ikano will
terminate (the) agreement and issue (Mr T) a Statement of Default. Ive asked Ikano if they
issued a statement of default and they said that this wasnt issued in the usual timescale or
not at all. No explanation can be given why this wasnt sent.
So Ive considered whether the Statement of Default would have made a difference to the
complaint. I dont think it would have stopped a default being registered, as it should have
been issued after the event. But I do think it may have brought to light an incorrect date
being registered for the default, or at least ensured the correct date would have been
registered initially.
I think that the correct date of default should be 14 October 2015. Ikano realised the wrong
default date had been recorded in their response on 22 July 2020 to Mr Ts complaint. I say
this as this is when Ikano say the first arrangement with the debt management charity would
have been paid and therefore as per the credit agreement this would start the default.
I think that by originally registering the default date of 14 May 2015 this did have an impact
on Mr T. I say this because he has told us about plans of buying a house once six years
passed and the default was removed from his credit file. While I accept 14 October 2015 is
the correct date for the default to be registered and Ikano have acted to ensure this is
accurate, this was only amended after Mr T made a complaint. Im not persuaded its fair to
penalise Mr T as a result of him bringing this information to light, even if this is the date the
default shouldve been registered.
Mr T has been clearly planning for the default to be removed in May 2021 and as a result of
the change this has had an impact on him. What I think would be fair is for Ikano to
recognise the impact the error has had on him and to pay him compensation to reflect this.
As if he had not complained the default date would have probably stood as the earlier date.
The default date was requested to be changed by Ikano nearly five years after Mr T had
actually defaulted and this would clearly impact Mr T as he was planning for nearly five
years, to then have the date of default pushed to a later date, when he thought the defaultwouldnt show on his credit file in the final year.
I can see that this would have an impact on Mr T and be very frustrating for him. I think Ikano
should pay Mr T compensation for this. I say this because if they had registered the default
with the correct date Mr T would have been able to plan for when this is removed from his
credit file in October 2021, instead of amending the date of default nearly five years after the
fact and only when Mr T brought a complaint to Ikano was this realised. But, because of the
error, through no fault of his own, he had been planning for May 2021. As a result of this Mr
T had a loss of expectation from the information he was originally given. I dont think this is
fair for the reasons Ive already given and so I think Ikano should pay Mr T £100 for the
impact their original error has caused.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Ikano accepted my provisional decision. Mr T did not accept my provisional 
decision. In summary he said that while he appreciated the intent of compensation for the 
inconvenience he suffered due to the incorrect date of the default being registered, he feels 
this adds weight that the default had not been reported accurately and should be removed 
from his credit file. Mr T says that as he rang Ikano days after they issued a default asking 
this to be removed is clear evidence that Ikano had registered a default before the notice 
was sent.
Mr T also said that hes spoken to the third party debt collector regarding the duplicate 
default and theyve said that theyre just reporting what Ikano have told them and so this 
should be remedied as part of this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr T has said about him ringing Ikano days after they sent a default 
notice is clear evidence that Ikano had registered a default before they had sent a default 
notice. But Im not persuaded by this and Ill explain why.
Although Mr T rang Ikano about the account defaulting, Ive seen no evidence from either 
party that the default had been registered before the default notice had been sent. As Mr T 
had rang Ikano regarding a potential default this may suggest he did receive the default 
notice and couldve been asking if a default could be removed at a later date, for example if 
he paid the arrears. But ultimately, Im satisfied that Ikano registered the default after Mr T 
hadnt made the required payment for the reasons given in my provisional decision.
Ive considered what Mr T has said about the information that the third party debt collector 
has told him regarding them registering a default on his credit file. So although I had said in 
my provisional decision I wasnt going to consider this point, I asked Ikano why they had 
given the third party debt collector the information they did regarding what Mr T had said is a 
duplicate default.
Ikano said that when Mr Ts debt was sold on, the entry was removed automatically from two 
major credit file providers, but they still report this to another credit file provider. Ikano said 
this will report as a defaulted account with a sold to (Credit Account Information Sharing) 
CAIS member flag with the date it was sold. The balance will also be reporting as zero, as 
Ikano are no longer collecting on the debt. When the account is sold, the relevant agency 
who owns the debt will register an entry on Mr Ts credit file. The debt the third party debt 
collector reports to the credit agency will be a continuation of the data they hold. The debt 
with Ikano defaulted and they see no reason why the third party debt collector should not continue to report that. They also gave an example saying if the third party debt collector 
didnt report this, it would effectively show a new facility opened which is being maintained, 
which would be inaccurate to report as it stems from a defaulted debt.
Ive looked at the credit report that Mr T had sent us previously. This does show that under 
the Ikano debt that this is showing as satisfied under the current balance and it states debt 
assigned CAIS member. The last balance is showing as £0. So Im not persuaded that this 
is a duplicate default as Mr T has said. If Mr T wishes, he will be able to add a notice of 
correction to his credit file. This is a short statement that he can add to individual items in 
his credit report which explains why a debt is showing and why this is not reflective of his 
general approach to meeting repayments. The notice of correction will then be available for 
other companies to see if they look at his credit file.  
In summary, Mr Ts response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mr T will be disappointed with the 
decision, but I hope he understands my reasons. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I suggested Ikano should pay Mr T £100 for recording the 
incorrect default date on his credit file and Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the 
reasons given previously.
My final decision
Ikano Bank Ab (publ) should pay Mr T £100.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman