DRN-1408760
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance ("PPI") policy taken out in 
2002. Mr H says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold him the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 2001 Mr H took out a high-street store card. He didn't take out PPI at this time - he took it 
out later in 2002 following a phone call. So both things didn't happen at the same time.
The policy provided protection for Mr H's store card payments in the event he couldn't work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy benefit was 15% of the 
outstanding account balance each month and it would pay out until Mr H returned to work or 
the balance was paid off - whichever happened first. It cost £1.00 for every £100 Mr H owed 
on the card.
At the time of the sale Mr H was employed, and he said he was entitled to sick pay of full-
pay followed by half-pay for a period - but he can't remember for how long this would've 
lasted. He initially indicated he had some savings he could've used to make his payments, 
but later said he had no savings of any notable value. He said he could've relied on family 
and friends to make his repayments, and he was in good health at the time.
AXA's records show Mr H paid less than £50 for PPI over the lifetime of the account.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought 
the available evidence showed that Mr H chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing 
to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for him.
Because Mr H disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mr H's case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. My reasons are set out below.
 
did Mr H have a choice about PPI? 
did he agree to take it out?I think AXA made it clear that Mr H didn't have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why he cant now remember this. 
Mr H remembers he took out PPI when he took out a store card during a store visit. But as I 
said above, this wasn't what happened. Mr H took out PPI during a phone call after he'd 
opened and already been using his account. I think because the two things didn't happen at 
the same time, it's unlikely Mr H would've reasonably thought or led to believe he had to 
have PPI.
And given what we know about how AXA conducted phone sales around the time Mr H took 
out his policy, I think he would've been asked if he wanted PPI added to his account. So, 
overall I think Mr H chose and agreed to take out PPI.
the information  
AXA says it didn't recommend or give advice to Mr H to take out PPI. And I've not seen 
enough to persuade me that it did. So AXA didn't have to ensure the cover was right or 
suitable for Mr H. But it did have to give him enough clear and timely information about the 
policy, so he could make an informed decision about it.
Without a call recording of the phone conversation Mr H had with AXA, I accept its possible 
the information AXA gave Mr H about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve been. 
But as I found above, Mr H chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. 
And based on his circumstances at the time it doesn't appear that it was inappropriate for 
him - for example he was eligible for the cover; he wasn't affected by the significant 
exclusions on or limits to the cover such as those relating to existing medical conditions or 
unusual employment circumstances; and given his existing means it seems like it would 
have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I 
dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr H off taking out the cover. 
This means I dont think Mr H has lost out as a result of having PPI, so AXA doesn't have to 
pay back to Mr H what he paid for PPI.
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said - including what he's said about his existing 
means and that in his opinion the policy didn't offer enough benefit to justify the cost. But 
these points dont change my decision.
I said above that I accept things didn't likely happen as they should have. But Mr H appears 
to have chosen the cover, so I think he was interested in the prospect of having his card 
payments protected. Mr H was likely entitled to some sick pay. But he says he 
can't remember the details - he also says he had no savings to speak of. The policy would've 
paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr H might've been entitled to and had the potential to 
clear the outstanding balance in full. I therefore think it could've proved useful to him if the 
insured risks became a reality.
And so in my view, had AXA given Mr H clearer information about the policy, in weighing up 
the cost and benefit proposition, I think that in his particular circumstances at the time he'd 
have thought that it did work for him and would've still taken the policy out.
 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I've decided not to uphold Mr H's complaint and I make no award. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman