DRN-2281305
The complaint
Mr E complains about an instalment loan that he took out with Gain Credit LLC, trading as 
Lending Stream, (LS), which he said was unaffordable. 
What happened
This complaint is about a short term loan for £600 which LS provided to Mr E on                  
20 August 2017. The loan was repayable by 24 weekly repayments with a highest weekly 
repayment of £51.42 and a highest monthly equivalent repayment amount of around £213. 
Mr E hasnt repaid the loan and LS has sold it to a third party.
Mr E said that hed taken out the loan during a time when hed taken out many payday loans 
and guarantor loans to make ends meet and to fund a gambling problem. He said that LS 
hadnt done proper checks and that the information about the loan it had since provided to 
him didnt match the information hed given LS.
In its final response letter, LS said it asked Mr E for his monthly income and, if required, it 
also confirmed the income with an independent company to make sure it was right. LS also 
asked what Mr E's costs were for items like rent, utilities, food, transport, and dependent 
care. LS checked what Mr E told it with information from independent sources. If required, it 
adjusted these expenses upward and used the new figures in its calculations. LS also asked 
Mr E what his monthly expenses were for other loans and credit agreements and it checked 
this information with an independent credit reference agency. It adjusted these expenses 
upward where required and used the new figures in its calculations. Finally, it added up all 
the expenses and subtracted these from Mr Es monthly income to see if Mr E had enough 
money left to be able to pay it for the loan comfortably.
LS said that the money that Mr E had available after his expenses were subtracted was 
more than the amount needed to pay it each month and would still have left him with some 
money to spend on other things. This meant that the loan was affordable, and it didnt uphold 
his complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said that there 
wasnt anything in the information Mr E had provided or the information LS shouldve been 
aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what he was saying.
She had taken into consideration Mr Es comments regarding the income information 
provided to him by LS and that it was incorrect. She had reviewed Mr Es income shown on 
his bank statements and had taken into consideration both income amounts. But she said 
that neither amount would have impacted the outcome.
Mr E disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to investigate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
When LS lent to Mr E the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The CONC
contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
LS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr E could repay 
the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that LS should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that LS was required to establish whether 
Mr E could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties 
and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it 
follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Es complaint.
As Ive set out above, LS made a number of checks before it lent to Mr E. It asked him for 
details of his monthly income and expenditure. Mr Es declared income was shown as 
£6,200 on his application form. LS then adjusted it to around £5,636. Mr E declared his 
expenditure as £675. LS then adjusted it to £840.
LS said that it also checked Mr Es credit file before agreeing to the loans. Ive seen brief 
results from LSs credit check. These showed that Mr E had six active accounts with a value of £1,800. On balance, I dont think that these should have caused LS additional concerns. 
The checks also showed that Mr E had three defaulted accounts, but the most recent default 
was thirteen months prior to this loan. I dont think these defaulted accounts should have 
caused LS additional concerns in view of their age. And I dont think it would have been 
unreasonable for LS to be more interested in Mr Es recent credit history for the purposes of 
assessing whether the loan was affordable. 
I cant see that weve received a complete copy of Mr Es credit report. We only appear to 
have received extracts from the report. From what Ive seen, I cant say that there were 
entries on the report which might have caused LS additional concerns.
Im also aware that when a lender carries out a credit check, the information it sees doesnt 
usually provide the same level of detail that a borrowers credit report will, and it isnt 
necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short 
term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So, this may explain any 
differences between the information provided by LSs credit checks and Mr Es actual 
situation. 
The loan was repayable by 24 weekly instalments. So, the amounts that Mr E needed to 
repay each time were smaller than if hed taken a normal payday loan. But he was also 
committing to making those repayments over a far longer period. 
I note that Mr E had asked to borrow £1,500 but he was provided with a loan of £600. So, I 
think its possible that LS might have had some concerns about Mr Es financial situation. 
Mr Es declared disposable income (as shown in its final response letter) as adjusted by LS, 
was around £4,800. I dont think the repayment amounts for the loan were so large that its 
obvious they wouldve caused Mr E financial difficulty. 
So given Mr Es repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstance at the time, 
and that this was Mr Es first loan with LS, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for LS 
to ask him for the amount of information that would be needed to show the loan was 
unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything in the information Mr E provided before the loan or information LS 
shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate for it to start verifying 
what he was saying. 
So, I dont think LS was wrong to give the loan to Mr E.
I can see that Mr E thought that LS didnt do proper checks and that it had inputted incorrect 
information about his income. But LS said that it would have confirmed his income with an 
independent company, if required, to make sure it was right. It appears to have done this as 
it adjusted Mr Es income to around £5,636 following further checks. 
I can also see that Mr E has sent us extracts from his bank statements to show his income at 
the time. He was paid fortnightly. In the month before the loan his income appears to be the 
monthly equivalent of around £1,345. I dont know why the income figure shown on LSs 
application information and in its final response letter and Mr Es actual income were 
different. But even if an amount of £1,345 was shown as Mr Es income in his application 
form instead of £6,200, I still dont think that the repayment amounts for the loan were so 
large that its obvious they wouldve caused Mr E financial difficulty. And I still dont think it 
wouldve been proportionate for LS to have asked Mr E for the amount of information that 
would be needed to show the loan was unsustainable.  I appreciate that what Ive said is going to disappoint Mr E and Im sorry to have to do that. 
But I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my 
decision.  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman