DRN-2679664
The complaint
Mr W is complaining BISL Limited cancelled his commercial vehicle insurance policy. 
What happened
In February 2020 Mr W took out a commercial vehicle insurance policy through BISL  a 
broker  to insure his van.
On 14 October 2020 BISL emailed Mr W to say the finance provider who funded his annual 
premium had advised it that Mr Ws payment details werent valid any longer and it asked 
Mr W to update them. It said it needed this information by 19 October 2020. And it said the 
policy may be cancelled if the payment details werent updated and payment made. Mr W 
called the same day and he said he couldnt update his payment details at that time, but he 
said he would call the week after to make the payment.
On 19 October 2020 BISL emailed to say the policy would cancel on 28 October 2020.
Mr W emailed on 27 October 2020 to say he had updated his payment details but he 
couldnt afford to make the payment at that time because he hadnt been working or 
receiving benefits. He asked BISL to not cancel the policy as he said he would make the 
payment in two or three days. BISL cancelled the policy the next day as Mr W hadnt paid 
the outstanding balance and it emailed him to confirm this.
Mr W called BISL the next day to complain it had cancelled the policy and asked BISL to 
reinstate the policy. He said hed emailed and asked for an extension so he said BISL 
shouldnt have cancelled the policy. BISL said it couldnt reinstate the policy. He asked the 
call handler if BISL had received his email. The call handler confirmed it had, but that it had 
been added to his file the day after the policys cancellation.
BISL didnt uphold his complaint. But it agreed to waive the £60 cancellation fee it said it was 
entitled to charge.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Mr W was aware he needed to make 
the payment by 28 October 2020 but he didnt do so. She acknowledged hed emailed BISL 
but she said this was sent the day before the policys cancellation. And she said BISL would 
have sent an automated response to say the email would be actioned in two to three days. 
She thought Mr W should have called given how close it was to the policys cancellation. So 
she didnt think BISL had acted unfairly in cancelling the policy.
Mr W didnt accept the investigators opinion. He reiterated hed emailed the day before the 
cancellation asking for an extension. So he didnt think BISL should have cancelled the 
policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Mr W has raised a number of reasons why he thinks BISL has treated him unfairly in 
cancelling the policy. Ive considered everything hes said but Ive not commented on each 
and every point hes raised. In this decision Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key 
complaint points. No discourtesy is meant by this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of 
this service.
BISL was entitled to cancel the insurance policy where Mr W failed to keep up with his 
monthly repayments. Mr Ws October 2020 payment didnt go through so BISL wrote to 
Mr W to ask him to make the payment and update his payment details. Ive listened to the 
telephone call Mr W had with BISL at that time and he said he couldnt make the payment 
then or update his payment details. But he said hed do so in a week. 
BISL later notified Mr W on 19 October 2020 it was cancelling the policy on 28 October 2020 
if he didnt make the payment and Im satisfied Mr W received this email, so he was aware of 
the implications of not making the payment. Ultimately Mr W didnt make the payment.
I acknowledge Mr W emailed BISL to ask for an extension, but he didnt receive anything to 
say the extension had been agreed. And BISL has shown Mr W would have received an 
automated response to say the email would be reviewed in two to three days. So I think 
Mr W was put on notice his email may not be actioned in time. Given how close it was to the 
cancellation date, I think Mr W should have telephoned BISL to confirm the extension had 
been agreed.
Ultimately, Im satisfied Mr W was given sufficient time to make the monthly repayment and 
he was given sufficient notice of the policys cancellation. So I dont think it acted unfairly in 
cancelling the insurance policy.
Ive also considered what Mr W has told us about the financial difficulties he was in due to 
the impact of COVID-19. But I havent seen anything to show that he raised these with BISL 
prior to the policys cancellation. Further to this, it was for the finance provider to consider 
any applicable financial support to assist him with repaying his finance agreement. So, while 
I naturally sympathise with the situation Mr W found himself in, I cant see BISL treated Mr W 
unfairly in this respect. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman