DRN-3179446
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon (Aegon) didnt adopt, or tell 
Mr E it hadnt adopted, the options introduced by pension freedoms in April 2015. And that 
its said she cant go into dependents drawdown. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide an 
overview of what I think are the key events and points.
In 1998, Aegon set up the late Mr Es drawdown plan on his personal pension policy. In late 
2018, Mr E sadly passed away, so Mrs E contacted Aegon to request dependents 
drawdown and was told her only option is a lump sum. 
In 2019, Mrs E complained to Aegon on behalf of the late Mr Es estate, and in her own right 
as a beneficiary under his policy, saying, in summary, that dependents drawdown was one 
of the options made available under pensions freedoms. And that it didnt treat Mr E fairly, or 
in a clear, fair and not misleading manner by not offering these, which any reasonable 
person would think theyd be able to enjoy. Mrs E said Mr E relied on Aegon to inform him of 
changes that might impact his plan, as he wasnt receiving advice from 2004 onwards. And 
that its failure to tell him it wasnt going to offer these options, despite its correspondence 
referring to terms introduced by pensions freedoms, means he wasnt given the chance to 
move his plan elsewhere. Mrs E also said that, in any case, she should be entitled to full 
options as Mr Es spouse  she wants the flexibility of income withdrawals and a lump sum 
would create a tax burden.
Aegon responded saying it wasnt obliged to provide the options pensions freedoms 
introduced and that it made a business decision not to. It said that when Mr E entered 
drawdown he made a lump sum death benefit nomination in an expression of wish form, 
naming Mrs E as the beneficiary, which its since explained carried across when his plan 
later moved to its default position for customers reaching 75. It said this means Mrs Es only 
entitled to a lump sum and its scheme rules dont allow her the option of drawdown. Aegon 
also said Mr Es financial adviser was responsible for whether his policy death benefits met 
his needs. And that its annual review letters gave him a chance to check this and 
recommended he seek financial advice.     
Mrs E brought the complaint to our service, via a representative, adding that this has been 
particularly upsetting and stressful for her having lost her husband. 
One of our investigators looked into it. She said Aegon was free to decide whether to 
introduce the pensions freedoms options. She said theres no evidence Mr E said that Mrs E 
should receive benefits other than by way of a lump sum. And being Mr Es spouse doesnt 
mean shes entitled to continue to receive benefits in the way he was. 
Mrs E didnt agree. She said our investigators findings refer to Mr E having had an annuity, 
which is an unrelated product. 
So the complaints been passed to me for a decision. I let Mrs E know that I understand 
Mr Es pension was in drawdown. And that this is what shed like to continue, rather than 
having to take a lump sum. 
Mrs E replied also adding, in summary, that if Aegon's decision not to introduce the options 
under pension freedoms was based on commercial grounds then it wasnt managing 
conflicts of interest between it and its customers fairly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Mrs Es made a number of representations, Ive only commented on what I think is key 
to reaching my decision here. And, while I know Mrs E will be disappointed and I appreciate 
the impact shes said this matter has had on her during a difficult time, Im not asking Aegon 
to do anything for largely the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case, Ive considered 
the relevant law and regulations, the regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I think was good industry practice at the time. 
Mrs Es referred to Principle 6, 7 and 8 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Principles 
for Business in particular in support of this complaint. Ive had regard to the Principles when 
reaching my decision, as these form part of the rules that businesses regulated by the FCA, 
including Aegon, must follow. Principle 6 says A firm must pay due regard to the interests of 
its customers and treat them fairly. Principle 7 sets out that A firm must pay due regard to 
the information needs of its clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is 
clear, fair and not misleading. And Principle 8 says A firm must manage conflicts of interest 
fairly, both between itself and its customers and between a customer and another client.
Mrs E says a reasonable person would assume theyd be able to enjoy pension freedoms. 
And that if Aegon had said otherwise Mr E would have transferred his plan elsewhere. But, 
while the pensions freedoms enable providers to offer greater flexibility, these arent 
compulsory, which means Aegon was free to chose whether to offer the options under this. 
So I cant say it wasnt treating its customers fairly, or that it failed to fairly manage conflicts 
of interest, by not doing so. 
Mr E entered into drawdown well before the pension freedoms legislation and theres no 
reason to think he didnt understand what would happen if he passed away, given it doesnt 
seem to be in dispute that he completed an expression of wish form at the time nominating 
Mrs E to receive a lump sum in that event. And I dont think Aegon ought to have told Mr E 
that it wasnt going to offer the options this introduced or provided information about the 
legislative changes. Especially when its decision hadnt altered the benefits payable under 
his policy given it didnt, and wasnt required to, adopt these. So I dont think Aegon failed to 
communicate with Mr E in a clear, fair and not misleading way.
Mr E, or his financial adviser when he had one, was responsible for whether his policy met 
his needs, including the death benefits, rather than Aegon. And I can see that under a 
section headed Death benefits in the July 2015 annual review letter Aegon sent to Mr E  
which is correctly addressed and Mrs E doesnt dispute that he received  it says that the 
options available upon death depends on Mr Es circumstances and to speak to a financial 
adviser for further details. The cover letter also told Mr E to ensure his plan still met his 
needs and to visit unbiased for financial advice. Bearing in mind what Ive said above, I dont 
think Aegon could reasonably be expected to have done any more than this. And if it had been important to Mr E to ensure Aegon had adopted the pension freedoms then I think it 
would have been reasonable to expect him to have confirmed this. 
Mr E feels she should be entitled to dependents drawdown in any case as Mr Es spouse. 
But Aegons shown that this isnt an option under the terms and conditions of his plan, as its 
scheme rules dont allow for it. This is because while the rules say that a member, like Mr E, 
can choose for a pension to be available after death for a widower, theres no evidence he 
chose this. Instead, it seems he nominated Mrs E to receive a lump sum in that event. So, 
I think Aegons acting in line with the wishes Mr E expressed and its terms and conditions by 
only offering her a lump sum rather than drawdown.  
In summary, while I appreciate Mrs Es position Im not asking Aegon to do anything, as 
I cant fairly say its done anything wrong for the reasons Ive given. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and the 
estate of Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman