DRN-4504741
Complaint
Ms B is unhappy that Revolut Ltd didnt do more to protect her when she fell victim to a 
scam.
Background
In early 2023, Ms B was looking for employment opportunities. A digital marketing agency 
contacted her and offered her an opportunity. This was apparently a part-time role and one 
that she could do remotely. Unfortunately, this wasnt an offer of work from a genuine 
business, but a scam.
Ms B was asked to carry out tasks on the agencys online platform. However, in order to 
participate she was required to make transfers to the company because she was told her 
account had a cash balance that needed to be maintained. She used her Revolut account to 
transfer £3,300 to four different payees in a three day period. As I understand it, she did this 
in the sincere belief that she would eventually be able to withdraw her earnings at a later 
date. When she asked to withdraw her earnings, she was told that shed need to make a 
substantial tax payment. At this point, she realised that she must have fallen victim to a 
scam.
She contacted Revolut to let it know what had happened. It looked into things, but it didnt 
agree to reimburse her. It said it had displayed warnings that shouldve prevented her from 
making the payments. It also said it had taken all reasonable steps to recover her money 
from the receiving accounts but that it hadnt been able to do so.
Ms B wasnt happy with the response she received from Revolut and so she referred her 
complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. She said 
that, while it was clear that Ms B had fallen victim to a scam, Revolut couldnt realistically 
have identified that at the time.
Ms B didnt agree with the Investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, that isnt the 
end of the story. Good industry practice required that Revolut be on the lookout for payments 
that were out of character or unusual to the extent that they might have indicated a fraud 
risk. 
Where it did have grounds to be concerned about a payment, I think it should reasonably 
have taken steps to warn its customer about the risk of proceeding. Whether a warning 
should be provided (and, if it should, the nature and extent of that warning) should be 
proportionate to the risk the payment presents and strike a balance between trying to protect 
customers and not unduly inconveniencing them. I must also take into account that applying 
significant friction to all payments would be very onerous and impractical for Revolut.
We now know with the benefit of hindsight that Ms B had been targeted by a fraudster. 
However, the question I have to consider is whether Revolut ought to have been able to 
identify that risk given what it knew at the time. Ive carefully considered that point and Im 
afraid Im not convinced it wouldve had any reasonable grounds for thinking any of the 
activity on Ms Bs account was unusual or out of character. 
The individual payments werent so large that they ought to have attracted Revoluts 
attention. And since Ms B had opened up her account as part of the scam, it didnt have any 
historic payment data to consider and so couldnt have known what her typical spending 
patterns were or used them as a basis of comparison when looking for potentially fraudulent 
payments. 
For completeness, Ive also considered whether it did everything it shouldve done once it 
was notified that Ms B had fallen victim to a scam. When that happens, Id expect it to make 
prompt contact with the receiving bank  i.e. the bank that operates the account controlled 
by the fraudster  in an attempt to recover Ms Bs money. I can see that it did so here but 
unfortunately those funds had already been moved on and so no recovery was possible. 
I dont say any of this to downplay or diminish the fact that Ms B has fallen victim to a cruel 
and cynical scam. I have a great deal of sympathy for her and the position shes found 
herself in. However, my role is limited to looking at the actions and inactions of the business 
and Im satisfied it didnt do anything wrong here.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman