DRN-2762992
The complaint
Mr O complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) didnt agree to a chargeback refund.
What happened
In October 2019 and November 2019, Mr O made three payments with his Visa card - 
totalling £10,400 from his Barclays account to his account with an offshore investment 
company. He tried to make withdrawals but couldnt. Barclays credited his account with 
£10,400 pending investigations. But £10,400 was then debited to Mr Os account again on 
19 May 2020  when the chargeback failed.
Mr O complained that the investment company wouldnt let him make withdrawals, even 
though he had over £205,000 in his account. He claimed £10,400 from Barclays under its 
visa chargeback scheme. Barclays unfairly denied his claim. He said hes sent to them 
further information on 3 May 2020, but theyd ignored or lost this. He said that chargebacks 
relating to investment accounts were covered within the Visa dispute resolution rules 
(section 13.5).
Barclays said the merchant provided evidence to say that Mr Os chargeback claim failed 
because the merchant showed hed agreed to their terms and conditions when he made the 
investments. They couldnt take his dispute any further  but possibly he should contact the 
police if he was being denied access to his money. They said theyd not sent to Visa Mr Os 
evidence sent to them on 3 May 2020  but looking at this, it wouldnt have made any 
difference to Mr Os claim. But in view of this, they made a goodwill payment of £100.
Mr O brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Barclays had acted within Visas 
chargeback rules. And since it had been shown that Mr O accepted the merchants terms 
and conditions, his claim was bound to fail. When Barclays received Mr Os email dated 3 
May 2020, they considered that there werent any grounds to take his claim any further  by 
way of arbitration.
Mr O said hed demonstrated to Barclays that the money was in his trading account, and that 
the merchant wouldnt allow it to be withdrawn.  He said that section 13.5 of the Visa rules 
for disputes covers claims for accessing funds in trading accounts. He asked that an 
ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mr Os complaint and what happened here. The crux of his complaint is 
whether Barclays dealt with his chargeback claim fairly and effectively and reached a fair 
and reasonable conclusion, and - I think they did.
Barclays said that one reason that Mr Os claim failed was because he agreed to the 
merchants terms and conditions  this is true. So, that didnt help Mr Os claim. But Ive then 
looked at the document Visa Product and Service Rules Dispute Resolution  this covers 
how chargeback claims should be handled and the evidence needed. At section 13.5 (to 
which Mr O refers), it sets out the evidence needed to support a claim involving an 
investment account where misrepresentation is alleged. It says it requires: 
Evidence from the Cardholder describing how the Merchants verbal and/or written 
representations do not match the terms of sale to which the Cardholder agreed
Copy of the Cardholders investment account showing the date, withdrawal amount, 
and available balance at the time the withdrawal request was made
For Disputes involving ongoing negotiations, both:
Certification of both:
The date the Cardholder began negotiations with the Merchant
The date the Issuer was first notified of the dispute
   Evidence of ongoing negotiations between the Cardholder and the Merchant to resolve 
the Dispute.
So  I have considered whether Mr O did provide this evidence to Barclays. The screenshots 
of Mr Os correspondence and statements with the investment company arent clear. We 
asked both Mr O and Barclays for better copies  but neither could help here. So  I must 
make a decision based on what I can see from some very poor copies. And I must be certain 
about the information Ive seen. And theres not enough evidence (that I can see) to confirm 
that Mr O did provide the evidence needed by Visas rules. I believe I can see two failed 
transactions for large amounts  possible £150,000 each (but Im not sure if theyre 
withdrawals or possibly investments of funds within the investment company.) and possibly I 
can see a balance of £205,621  but it just isnt clear. And I cant be certain the document is 
authentic for the same reasons. I can see an email dated 29 January 2020 from the 
investment company which gives a different story to Mr Os as it says Your account balance 
is currently £21.03. You never had a balance of £205,621.03. To close your account please 
process a full withdrawal of your funds. So  the investment company said that Mr O had 
£205,600 less that he claimed he had with them.
We also asked Mr O if this evidence is what he sent to Barclays on 3 May 2020  but he 
didnt comment in reply. So  I cant be certain if this information was sent to Barclays, and 
when.
So - looking at Mr Os evidence, I dont think that it meets the requirements of Visas rules for 
disputes  as its not clear that Mr Os account balance was £205,621, the dates arent 
visible, and neither is there evidence of an attempted withdrawal. And without that certainty, I 
cant uphold Mr Os complaint.
So  and I accept that this will be disappointing for Mr O  I wont be asking Barclays to do 
anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman