DRN-1068365
 
The complaint
N, a limited company, complains that Ulster Bank Ltd has an incorrect address in its records 
for one of its directors, who Ill refer to as Mr H. It wants Ulster Bank to correct its records 
and explain how the error happened. Mr H has brought this complaint to us on behalf of N. 
What happened
In early 2019 N applied for anytime banking with Ulster Bank. It wanted to use anytime 
banking, which is fee free, instead of the service it was using and for which it pays a monthly 
fee. Ns application was declined as Mr Hs address in the application didnt match the 
address in Ulster Banks records. Mr H says the address Ulster Bank has for him in its 
records is incorrect.
Ulster Bank asked Mr H to update his address. Mr H says he shouldnt have to ask for his 
address to be corrected when he wasnt responsible for it being incorrect.
Mr H asked Ulster Bank to explain why it had a different address in its records  he says he 
has no connection to this address. He sent Ulster Bank copies of bank statements showing 
the address it has always used for N. He says in mid 2019 Ulster Bank sent statements to 
the address it holds for him, which he says is incorrect.
Ulster Bank tried to contact Mr H by phone to discuss his concerns. Mr H says he wasnt 
happy about giving personal details to an unknown caller: Ulster Bank wouldnt discuss the 
matter with him until hed passed security.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said Ulster Bank 
provided evidence that Mr H had asked for his address to be changed in 2015. Ulster Bank 
hadnt made an error and it wasnt unfair for it to ask that Mr H update his address.
N didnt agree. Mr H said he was waiting for Ulster Bank to provide a list of accounts that are 
linked and explain why it used this address for him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances. 
Ulster Bank says Mr H is a director of other companies that also have accounts with Ulster 
Bank. It says it received a request from him in December 2015 to change his residential 
address for all accounts. It provided its record of this. Ulster Bank updated the address it 
held for Mr H in early 2016. I dont know if Mr H intended to change the address Ulster Bank held for him in relation to 
Ns accounts in 2015. Its possible there was a misunderstanding about this. But, based on 
the available evidence, I dont think I can reasonably find that Ulster Bank made an error 
when it updated Mr Hs address in early 2016. The updated address is the one it had for 
Mr H when N applied for anytime banking in early 2019. 
I dont know why statements addressed to Mr H were sent to this address in mid 2019 when 
theyd previously been sent to Ns address. But this is the address Ulster Bank has for Mr H, 
so I can't fairly say it made an error. Mr H says this isnt his address. If so, I agree that it 
should be corrected in Ulster Banks records. In the circumstances, I think its reasonable for 
Ulster Bank to ask Mr H to follow its usual process to update his address. 
I understand Mr Hs reluctance to give his details to an unexpected caller. But I also think its 
reasonable for Ulster Bank not to discuss an account with a customer until its security 
checks are completed. So while its unfortunate that Ulster Bank couldnt discuss Mr Hs 
concerns with him by phone, I dont think it acted unreasonably.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman