DRN-3201400
The complaint
Ms A complains Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) didnt treat her fairly 
when her income was impacted by the pandemic.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms A had a hire purchase agreement with VWFS for a car. It was for a four-year term and 
the monthly payments were £425.84. To maintain the account, Ms A needed to make her 
payments on time and in full each month, otherwise arrears would accrue and be reported to 
the credit reference agencies. The agreement also set out Ms A could return the car early in 
certain circumstances.
In March 2020, about three years into the agreement, Ms A asked VWFS for some support 
as her income had been impacted by the pandemic. VWFS applied 60-days breathing 
space, meaning she didnt need to make any payments while she considered her finances. 
Ms A, however, thought she had been given a Covid-related payment deferral. I find VWFS 
treated Mr A fairly here. At this time the Financial Conduct Authority hadnt issued guidance 
for payment deferrals, so these werent available. VWFS however, still needed to treat Ms A 
fairly and that is what it did by giving her breathing space.
In June 2020 Ms A contacted VWFS as shed received an arrears letter. She found she 
hadnt been in a payment deferral and so proceeded to apply for one  payment deferrals 
were in effect by this time. VWFS declined her request on the basis she was in arrears. I 
dont find VWFS treated Ms A fairly here. The arrears had come about as a direct impact of 
the pandemic on Ms As income. VWFS therefore ought reasonably to have accepted Ms As 
request and put in place a payment deferral. Ms A then wouldnt have needed to make 
payments for three months and her credit file wouldnt have been adversely impacted. 
Ms A says VWFS has caused her a financial loss. She says, in summary, she should have 
been given the option to return the car early and if this had happened, she wouldnt owe 
VWFS anything  she says following the return of the car VWFS was asking her to pay it 
about £3,000. Im not persuaded this matter has caused Ms A to lose out in the way she 
says. Ill explain why.
Returning the car early, otherwise known as voluntary termination (VT), required Ms A to 
have paid half the total amount payable under the agreement (£20,375.16) plus any overdue 
payments, to avoid still owing VWFS money  assuming the cars condition and mileage 
didnt incur further charges. 
Ms A paid a deposit and her monthly payments were about £425, but she didnt reach the 
necessary amount payable to return the car early at no additional cost until around 
August 2020. And by this point, Ms A was in arrears, which she would always have needed 
to pay regardless of whether she was in a payment deferral or not. Ms A also had the benefit 
of the car until its eventual return, something VWFS can fairly expect her to pay for. Im also 
aware Ms A obtained VT settlement figures in July and September 2020 but didnt act on 
them, instead waiting until October 2020, at which point VWFS facilitated the return. This 
makes me think Ms A wasnt as keen on returning the car early as she has suggested. By 
the time the car was returned, Ms A hadnt paid the arrears and my understanding is thats 
the amount Ms A has been asked to pay. I find that fair and reasonable for the reasons set 
out above. 
When VWFS responded to Ms As complaint in October 2020 it said it had amended her 
credit file to show no adverse data related to this matter up until that point. That went some 
way to putting things right because, as set out above, a payment deferral would have 
avoided some adverse data, had one been put in place. I do, however, consider VWFS 
decision to decline her June 2020 request for a payment deferral caused Ms A unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience at an already difficult time. Ms A was also understandably 
frustrated with VWFS level customer service more generally. Like the investigator, I 
consider VWFS should pay Ms A compensation for the impact its actions had on her. And 
like the investigator, I consider £250 fairly reflects said impact.
The investigator also recommended VWFS contact Ms A to set up a payment arrangement 
for the repayment of the outstanding balance. If there still is an outstanding balance, and if a 
payment arrangement isnt in place, I consider it would be appropriate for VWFS to contact 
Ms A about her payment options. 
Putting things right
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should:
- pay Ms A £250 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience she 
was caused; and
- contact Ms A to discuss a payment arrangement if one is still necessary.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman