DRN-2308473
The complaint
Mr C complains about Legal and General Assurance Society Limiteds (L&Gs) decision to 
turn down his income protection insurance claim.
What happened
Mr C is covered under his employers group income protection policy. The policy pays a 
monthly benefit in the event the insured becomes unable to work because of illness or injury. 
In September 2019, Mr C stopped work and later submitted a claim to L&G. After assessing 
the claim, L&G turned it down as it didnt think there was a medical reason preventing Mr C 
from working. Unhappy with this, Mr C brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought it had been 
reasonable for L&G to turn down the claim, based on the medical evidence.
Mr C didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policys definition of incapacity for the first 60 months is own occupation. This is defined 
in the policy as:
Means the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him from 
performing the essential duties of his own occupation immediately before the start of the 
deferred period.
Mr C stopped work because of work-related stress after an incident with his manager. He 
was prescribed anti-depressant medication by his GP, and L&G also arranged for him to 
have cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT). 
As Mr Cs symptoms didnt improve with medication or the CBT therapy, L&G arranged for 
an independent medical examination to take place with a consultant clinical psychologist. 
The psychologist thought that Mr C had a mixed anxiety and depressive disorder. In his 
view, Mr C was not disabled but instead was lacking in a desire to change and take active 
steps to resume work. The psychologist also thought that Mr C had settled into a lifestyle 
choice. He noted that Mr C hadnt told him about the workplace issues hed experienced, 
and thought there may be an element of unresolved workplace dispute still in his mind, or 
there may be a more straightforward avoidance of work as he had a new-found equilibrium 
he could tolerate. He also thought Mr C would benefit from ongoing support from his 
therapist as he reconnects with work. 
L&G asked the psychologist if Mr C was medically capable of returning to work, and he said 
that he believed that Mr C could engage in return-to-work planning. He further said that 
Mr Cs motivation to move on from how he lives his life was affected by habit and not 
disability.
Overall, I agree with our investigator that it was reasonable for L&G to rely on the 
psychologists opinion that, although Mr C had a mixed anxiety and depressive disorder, he 
wasnt medically prevented from working, and therefore turn down the claim.
Mr C has recently provided this service with evidence that hes been accepted for 
Employment and Support Allowance (ESA). This evidence wasnt available to L&G when it 
assessed the claim, however, I dont think it changes matters. I say that because the criteria 
for ESA is different to the criteria under the policy. Ive only looked at whether I think L&Gs 
decision to turn down the claim was fair, based on the policy wording. As Ive explained, Im 
satisfied that its decision was fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman