DRN-4135787
The complaint
Mr R complains that ReAssure Limited has refused to backdate his pension payments to his 
65th birthday.
Mr R has been helped in this complaint by his independent financial adviser (IFA). 
What happened
Mr R had a personal pension with Legal & General (L&G). In 2020 responsibility for 
administering the policy transferred to ReAssure Limited (ReAssure), so that business is 
responsible for answering the complaint. 
The plan had a guaranteed minimum pension (GMP), arising from contracting out of 
SERPS, and the post-1988 element includes a 3% annual escalation. 
In 2016 Mr R had attempted to take benefits from the plan at the original minimum age of 60. 
But as the fund value wasnt sufficient to cover the GMP liability, Mr R was told his pension 
would be payable from age 65, which would be in August 2021. 
In June 2021 ReAssure sent Mr R a Pension Pot Summary document which showed his 
retirement date had been raised to his 75th birthday and confirmed his entitlement to the 
GMP from age 65 (for men). 
Around this time, in preparation for taking his pension at age 65, the IFA contacted 
ReAssure to ask about Mr Rs options. ReAssure said it required a new letter of authority, 
which was provided in early July, but due to an oversight nothing was sent out. The IFA 
chased ReAssure in September and the retirement options pack was sent out in early 
October. In order to benefit from the GMP, Mr R was limited to ReAssures retirement 
offering, an annuity provided by L&G. So through his IFA Mr R applied for an L&G annuity 
for the amount of the GMP. The annuity was set up with effect from 8 November 2021, 
providing a pre-1988 GMP of £136.34 per month, and a post-1988 GMP of £252.43 per 
month escalating at 3% per year, paid in advance with a 50% spouse pension.  
ReAssure paid the funds to L&G to purchase the annuity in January 2022, so the payments 
couldnt actually start until then, although they were backdated to November 2021. Mr R 
expected the annuity to be paid automatically from his 65th birthday in August. So he and his 
IFA feel hes missed out on three payments for August, September and October 2021. 
ReAssure apologised for the delay in sending out the pack, for which it paid compensation of 
£225. It said it would carry out a loss calculation for the late payment but didnt agree to 
backdate the payments to August. In June 2022 ReAssure calculated Mr Rs loss as £19.13, 
which it had rounded up to £50, which brings the total compensation to £275.
Mr Rs IFA said this was insufficient as Mr R had missed three payments to which he was 
entitled. So he brought Mr Rs complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators reviewed the case and thought ReAssure was responsible for 36 
days of avoidable delays, without which Mr Rs payments wouldve started a month earlier. 
So he said ReAssure should pay Mr R the missing October payment, plus interest at 8%, 
deducting the £50 already paid. But he didnt increase the £225 compensation figure.
ReAssure accepted the view and confirmed L&G had paid Mr R £1,166.31 gross (£1,142.71 
net) on 13 January 2022, being the combined payments for November and December 2021 
and January 2022. And thereafter the payments would be £311.17 on the 8th of every month. 
On receipt of Mr Rs acceptance, they agreed to pay the October payment plus 36 working 
days interest at 8%, deducting the £50 already paid. ReAssure subsequently advised that 
although the investigator had capped the interest at 36 days, L&G had already calculated the 
8% interest on the October payment on the full period from October 2021 to January 2022 
as £12.05. And as this is already covered by the £50 already paid theyd just pay £311.17 in 
respect of the October payment, if Mr R accepted. 
However Mr R didnt feel this went far enough as he still felt the payments shouldve 
automatically been backdated to his 65th birthday.
I issued a provisional decision as Id reached slightly different outcome to the investigator. 
Provisional decision 
In the provisional decision I made the following findings (in summary) 
While Mr R was entitled to access his pension at age 65, payment wouldnt happen 
automatically, hed still need to claim his pension and consider his options at the 
time;
L&Gs letter dated 21 July 2016 explained that as his fund wasnt sufficient to cover 
the GMP hed have to wait until 65. It concluded We will contact you again shortly 
before you reach 65 to remind you that you can take benefits at that time (my bold 
emphasis). So I thought Mr R shouldve expected to receive a reminder of his 
entitlement, not that the pension would be paid from his 65th birthday regardless. 
While in practice his options may have been limited, ReAssure still had to provide Mr 
R with information about his options, and the recommendation to seek advice before 
deciding. 
His IFA expected a retirement options pack to be provided, as they requested one 
(from L&G) in June 2021. 
The June 2021 pension pot summary letter didnt provide figures. But Mr R had 
already decided to take benefits at 65 based on what he already knew about the 
GMP he could expect. So anything in excess of that was a bonus not the deciding 
factor.
On receipt of the 21 June 2021 letter Mr R could have asked ReAssure to arrange 
payment as soon as possible after he turned 65. Instead Mr R wished his IFA to 
arrange this for him. 
The transfer of business from L&G to ReAssure in September 2020 had been in 
progress for a number of years prior to being finalised, so policy holders would have 
known about it. But Mr Rs IFA was apparently unaware of it as he initially contacted 
L&G rather than ReAssure in June 2021. The IFAs authority over Mr Rs policy had already expired when the transfer from 
L&G took place. So ReAssure couldnt deal with the IFA until a valid authority was in 
place, which wasnt until early July. I thought that was too short notice for the annuity 
to be in payment in August.
ReAssures failure to send the retirement pack didnt arise from the transfer from 
L&G, but because Mr Rs retirement date had automatically been amended to his 
75th birthday (the latest he could take benefits), in the absence of knowing his 
intentions. As Mr R and his IFA were aware he intended to take benefits as soon as 
possible I didnt think it was unreasonable for them to have chased ReAssure for a 
retirement pack earlier than September when one didnt arrive. 
On 15 September 2021 Mr Rs IFA was told the retirement pack would be issued in 
nine working days. It was actually issued 13 working days later on 3 October 2021, 
Mr R signed L&Gs annuity application form in late October and his IFA counter-
signed and submitted it on 3 November 2021, exactly a month after receipt. It looks 
like processing took five days as the annuity is paid on the 8th of the month. 
Following this timescale, ReAssure wouldve issued the pack around 26 July, being 
13 working days from 6 July 2021 when it received the IFAs new letter of authority. 
And the IFA wouldve returned it to ReAssure a month later, around 26 August, 
meaning the payments couldve commenced in early September. 
ReAssure already agreed to make a payment plus interest for October 2021s 
payment. But I thought in addition ReAssure should also make a payment plus 8% 
simple interest for September (£311.17 plus interest of approximately £40) to reflect 
that Mr Rs annuity would have commenced from September 2021. 
But because L&G received the funds to purchase his annuity around seven weeks 
after Mr Rs selected retirement date, it requoted the annuity, to Mr Rs benefit as 
annuity rates had risen. So the delay has resulted in the monthly payments for both 
elements of the GMP being marginally higher than they would have been had it been 
calculated sooner. 
Putting Mr R in as close as possible to the position hed be in if things had happened 
as they should, wouldnt involve simply making up the missing payments, as the 
amount of those payments wouldnt be the same. 
It would require recalculating the annuity to start from September 2021, which may 
mean Mr Rs entitlement being lower than hes currently receiving. The higher 
amount applies for the life of the annuity including any spouse pension, so its not 
clear the delay has left him worse off overall. And in any case once an annuity is in 
payment it cannot be changed, so a recalculation isnt possible. 
So to put things right, I said a fair and reasonable outcome would be for ReAssure to 
make two payments of £311.17 for September and October 2021, plus 8% simple 
interest from the date each payment should have been made (for ease I said 
ReAssure should use 8 September 2021 and 8 October 2021) to the date of my final 
decision if Mr R accepts. 
ReAssure has already paid Mr R £50 to cover the loss of interest (£19.13) on the 
November 2021 payment. So it can add together the interest on all three payments 
and pay the balance after deducting the £50 already paid. And ReAssure should pay Mr R the £225 it has already offered if it hasnt already 
done so. 
Responses to the provisional decision
Both parties responded accepting the provisional findings and offered no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the case again, and as both parties have accepted the findings in the 
provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions reached.
Putting things right
ReAssure Limited should pay Mr R two payments of £311.17 adding 8% interest from 8 
September and 8 October 2021 to the date of my final decision, if Mr R accepts. 
Once these two amounts of interest have been calculated, it can add these together with the 
£19.13 calculated in respect of the November 2021 payment and pay this to Mr R after 
deducting the £50 it has already paid in respect of this. If the £50 hasnt actually been paid to 
Mr R no deduction should be made. 
It should pay Mr R the £225 it has already offered, if not already done so. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. ReAssure Limited should put things right as set about above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman