DRN-3453393
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy Barclays Bank UK Plc are holding her responsible for activity on 
her account which she says she didnt consent to.
What happened
Miss P says she lost her debit card in May 2021, possibly while at a petrol station. She 
disputes all of the activity after the loss of her card. In July 2021 it appears Barclays 
blocked her account and asked Miss P to visit the branch to identify herself, which she did 
in late August 2021. A fraud claim was raised by Miss P early the following month.
Over the period between the alleged loss of the card and the block being applied by 
Barclays, there was significant activity on her account  numerous credits, significant 
spending and a number of disputes raised about the legitimacy of transactions (both 
about undisputed activity pre-dating the loss of the card and disputed activity after it was 
lost).
Immediately prior to the disputed activity Miss Ps account only had a very small balance 
and she says the source of the subsequent credits to the account is unknown to her. So, 
Miss Ps claimed loss is largely a result of Barclays crediting her account temporarily with 
the value of the disputes. Those funds were then spent or paid away. When Barclays 
eventually declined the majority of the disputes, the temporary credits were debited from 
her account.
This has left Miss Ps account with a significant overdrawn balance as well as, in at least 
one case, owing money to a third party from which a previous genuine payment was 
recalled.
When Miss P reported the matter to Barclays, she mentioned that shed received a call from 
someone pretending to be the bank earlier that year and may have disclosed some 
confidential information. She also said that shed been out of the country and had returned 
to letters regarding the various disputes that had been raised on her account.
It rejected her claim  arguing there was no explanation for how a third party could have 
obtained her card and PIN, as well as registered a new device for mobile banking (all of 
which would have been necessary for the activity on her account to have taken place). It 
noted that Miss P had abruptly stopped using her account prior to the disputed activity, 
despite having used the card frequently beforehand. It could also see that she logged into 
her mobile banking on several occasions during the period of the disputed activity, but 
hadnt reported the matter until some considerable time later.
Miss P referred the matter to our service and one of our investigators didnt uphold it. 
They were unable to explain how the activity could have taken place without Miss Ps 
consent.
Miss P continued to deny knowledge of how the transactions had taken place and argued 
that Barclays should have questioned the activity on her account given how unusual it 
was for her. So, the matter was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss P has been through a very difficult time and Im sorry to hear of the 
impact that this matter has had on her.
However, Im afraid that, while its possible she has lost out here, I dont think that could 
have happened without her giving consent to another party to operate her account. Ill 
explain why. And, while I understand Miss P may be unhappy that someone was able to 
raise disputes on her account (particularly in relation to genuine transactions), it isnt the 
result of those disputes  the temporary credits  that have caused Miss Ps loss, but 
rather the payments out of her account. As such, I need to consider whether Miss P is 
responsible for those debits to her account.
Under the relevant regulations  the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs 2017), 
Miss P is liable for transactions shes authorised  either by carrying them out herself or 
giving permission for another party to carry them out on her behalf. The PSRs 2017 also 
set out that where a payment isnt authorised by the account holder, they may still be liable 
for it if theyve failed with intent or gross negligence to adhere to the terms of their account 
or keep their personalised security credentials safe.
More broadly the law recognises that, in circumstances where a third party has been 
given authority to act on the account holders behalf, any activity carried out by the third 
party can properly be considered authorised, even where the account holder has not 
given specific permission for each and every transaction to take place.
Miss P says that not only was the activity on her account carried out without her 
knowledge or permission, but she also didnt allow anyone else to use her card or 
account.
Im satisfied that without knowledge of Miss Ps PIN the disputed activity couldnt have 
taken place  it was used to register a new device for mobile banking and make payments 
from Miss Ps online banking facility.
Im not persuaded by what Miss P has said about losing her card. I can see a payment to a 
petrol station in late May 2021, but its a contactless payment that would not have required 
her PIN. Miss P hasnt said the PIN was written down with the card, so someone taking or 
finding it would not be able to carry out the disputed activity unless they guessed or had 
prior knowledge of the PIN.
Miss P says she wasnt alone when she visited the petrol station and those with her may 
have taken the card and known the PIN. While I cant rule out this possibility (just as I cant 
rule out the possibility the PIN was guessed  even if the probability of doing so in three 
attempts is very small), I dont think the other evidence is consistent with her having lost 
her card at all. Neither do I think that the call Miss P says she received from someone 
pretending to be the bank could explain what happened either  theres no suggestion she 
divulged her PIN to the caller and they would have no access to her physical card.
Miss P claims to have phoned the bank to cancel her card soon after its loss and was 
expecting to receive a replacement, but Barclays doesnt have any record of this. While 
mistakes do happen, and replacement cards go missing, its unlikely the bank would have neglected to cancel the card. Its even less likely that there would simply be no 
record of Miss P having made this request.
I also note that the account in question was used by Miss P very frequently until May 2021. 
Up to that point she was using it to receive her wages but this, as well as any other 
undisputed activity, abruptly stopped. I find it particularly surprising that the activity stopped 
so completely as Miss P claims not to have had another bank account at the time. Though 
Miss P says she used cash for spending and was, in any case, largely confined to her 
home due to poor mental health, its unclear why she didnt follow up with the bank once it 
was clear her new card wasnt going to arrive.
Ive reviewed the banks record of her mobile and internet banking. I can see that a new 
device was registered for mobile banking on 25 May 2021 using PIN sentry  a method 
that required both Miss Ps card and correct PIN.
That device was used for the majority of disputed payments made from Miss Ps account 
(as well as, it appears, raising the disputes). Prior to the disputed activity, Miss Ps device 
was used to access her account very frequently but again, that largely, but not completely, 
stopped after 25 May 2021. Her device is used to access the account on six occasions 
between the alleged loss of her card and Miss P raising the fraud claim with Barclays. She 
says that there was an error when she tried to access the account, but Barclays records 
show that each attempt was successful, so I think its likely she would have seen the 
activity taking place.
There were also four payments made using Miss Ps online banking facility, again these 
were authorised using the PIN sentry method, but anyone accessing her online banking 
facility would have also required access to her Barclays membership number  and 
theres no suggestion this was ever disclosed or lost with the card.
Miss P acknowledges that she received a number of letters to her home address over the 
period of the disputed activity. She says that she didnt open the letters due to her poor 
mental health at the time. She also says she was out of the country for at least some of 
this period. While I dont dispute anything shes said about her health problems at the 
time, the evidence Ive already mentioned shows Miss P did access her mobile banking 
on several occasions  so I dont think that she was unaware of what was happening.
Ultimately, I dont find it plausible that a third party, whod found or taken Miss Ps card 
(whether known or unknown to her) would both be able to carry out the activity they did 
and would choose to credit her account with money and raise disputes over a period of 
several months  all the time hoping that Miss P didnt cancel her card or notice the 
activity. By doing so, the fraudster would risk losing money theyd credited to her account.
I find it much more likely that she willingly gave access to her account to a third party as 
this provides the only plausible explanation of what happened. While she might not have 
known that her account was going to be used in the way that it was, in these 
circumstances the bank is entitled to treat the instructions given by a third party as 
authorised and therefore hold Miss P responsible.
Whether Miss P has received any benefit from what happened is unknown to me. 
However, without a plausible explanation of what happened, I cant say that Barclays have 
made a mistake by holding Miss P responsible. As Im not persuaded by Miss Ps version 
of events, it would not be appropriate for me to consider whether Barclays ought to bear 
any responsibility for what happened for not intervening in the unusual activity on her 
account.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman