DRN-3895866
The complaint
Ms R complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc incorrectly transferred her ISA before it matured, 
and this resulted in a financial loss.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 16 December. This is what I said:
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold it, so there will be a different outcome to
what our investigator proposed.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 13 January 2023. But unless the
information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
The complaint
Ms R complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc incorrectly transferred her ISA before it
matured, and this resulted in a financial loss.
What happened
Ms R had an Individual Savings Account (ISA) with another bank and decided to transfer it
to Secure Trust Bank upon its maturity.
Ms R completed Secure Trust Banks on-line process to transfer her ISA, with the interest
added to her new account. However, Secure Trust Bank transferred Ms Rs funds
immediately. So, the transfer completed prior to maturity and Ms R lost interest which
totalled £620.
Ms R says that because of the large amount involved she checked the on-line form with her
husband. And, she complained to Secure Trust Bank as she believed a system error must
have changed the details upon submission. Ms R also complained about the lack of any
preventative measures.
Secure Trust Bank investigated Ms Rs complaint. They referred the matter to their
Technical Support Team who were unable to identify any issues with the application upon
submission. Their finding was that Ms R had unfortunately selected the wrong option and
accepted the transfer immediately.
Ms R complained to our service. This is because her complaint wasnt upheld, and she felt
Secure Trust Banks system wasnt stable and fit for purpose. Also, she found they took a
long time to investigate and respond.
Our investigator informed Ms R that although he understood it would not have been her
intention to make an immediate transfer, he couldnt see any evidence that Secure Trust
Bank had made an error. Regarding preventative measures he explained that our service
doesnt have the power to set rules for businesses services. Also, although Secure Trust
Banks investigation took a number of weeks, he found this was within their service
standards.
As Ms R remains dissatisfied, this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different view to the investigator and I intend to uphold this
complaint for the reasons detailed below.
Firstly, I should explain this services role isnt to reprimand a business. Also, we cant
require a business to alter its processes, procedures and systems. I say this because we
arent the regulator of the financial services industry and our role is to consider each
individual case. Also, where we think a business hasnt acted fairly and reasonably in the
circumstances, our role is to decide what should be done to put right any financial, or non-
financial losses that a consumer has experienced.
I first looked closely at the Secure Trust Banks confidential investigation report. However,
for the following reasons, I asked our investigator to request further information.
Secure Trust Bank said Ms R selected the first option which was:
I will accept any consequential loss of interest or charges which may be applied.
However, this was one of two available options, the other being to wait until my funds are
available and a screenshot or audit trail of the options and selection wasnt included. Also,
there was a screen shot of a subsequential stage in the process, which showed the give
notice field being set to no. Secure Trust Bank say this couldve only been triggered by Ms
R making the wrong selection. However, the lack of data and the following narrative
indicated this wasnt Ms Rs transaction:
I have attached an example of what a customer would see at application stage. If Ms R had
selected the second option, which says wait until my funds are available, then she would
have to enter a date, although its not a mandatory field, but this would set the give notice
field to 'Yes'.
Also, when there is a dispute, without information such as full screen shots or an audit trail,
system logic and system integrity details it is difficult to take a yes in the give notice field
as hard evidence. In addition, the following comment about whether Ms R entered a date
suggests a degree of uncertainty:
it doesn't look like the customer had given us the date
So, Secure Trust Bank was asked to provide more evidence that Ms R ticked the wrong
box. They submitted on-line journey images. However, despite Secure Trust Bank providing
answers to probing questions from our investigator, I still found this inconclusive. This is
because they provided some transaction screen images and not others and, the key image,
which would be that of the option selection, is missing. Also, I cant see that an explanation
has been provided.Although I could see a screen shot related to Ms Rs transaction with a no rather than a
yes in the give notice field, considering the uncertain comment and the lack of information
described above, I find it difficult to see this as hard evidence. Furthermore, the information
provided hasnt enabled me to see any system safety features to check Ms R was treated
fairly when she made her transaction.
So, although Secure Trust Bank sound confident that Ms R ticked the wrong box, due to the
uncertainty mentioned above, I found it necessary to reach my decision on the balance of
probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the
available evidence and wider circumstances.
I cant see that there is any dispute that Ms R intentionally requested to transfer her savings
immediately. As Ms R describes, no right minded person transfers an account to make
another investment when they would lose more than they would gain. So, something clearly
went wrong.
I looked at the probability of Ms R making an error and ticking the wrong box and I
considered this to be low. This is because the wording in both option boxes is very clear.
Also, Im persuaded by Ms Rs comments that she was being very careful double checking
all entries. In addition, she says her husband checked with her. So, it is difficult to see how
two people could have ticked a box that said, I will accept any consequential loss of interest
or charges when they would lose £620 interest.
So, considering all of the above, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded that Ms R
ticked the wrong box. I think it more likely than not that there was a system problem and,
based on the information provided, I dont think Secure Trust Bank have treated Ms R fairly.
So, my provisional decision is to uphold Ms Rs complaint and I require Secure Trust Bank
to pay Ms R £620 for the lost interest. As I can see evidence of both inconvenience and
distress, Secure Trust Bank should also pay Ms R £250 compensation. In addition, as this
matter caused Ms R to withdraw her money early, they should pay any penalty interest or
charges she has paid.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, I plan to uphold this complaint.
I require Secure Trust Bank Plc to pay Ms R £620 for the lost interest. Also, £250 for the 
inconvenience and distress caused. In addition, as this matter caused Ms R to withdraw her 
money early, they should pay any penalty interest or charges she has paid.
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 13 January 
2023. Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set 
out above.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments or evidence before the 
deadline. 
Secure Trust Bank said they had no further information to provide.
Ms R accepted the provisional decision and said this matter has caused me a great deal of 
distress and I feel completely validated by your findings. I look forward to hearing from you in 
due course and the closure that this will bring.
I noticed I had incorrectly referred to Ms R as Mrs R, so I have corrected this document and apologise to Ms R.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Secure Trust Bank havent been able to provide any further information, when thinking 
about everything again, Im still not persuaded that Ms R ticked the wrong box. 
On the balance of probabilities, I think it more likely than not that there was a system 
problem and, based on the information provided, I dont think Secure Trust Bank have 
treated Ms R fairly.
Putting things right
So, my final decision is to uphold Ms Rs complaint and I require Secure Trust Bank to pay 
Ms R £620 for the lost interest. Also, as I can see evidence of both inconvenience and 
distress, Secure Trust Bank should also pay Ms R £250 compensation. In addition, as this 
matter caused Ms R to withdraw her money early, Secure Trust Bank should pay any 
penalty interest or charges she has paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Secure Trust Bank Plc to pay 
Ms R £620 for the lost interest. 
Also, I require Secure Trust Bank Plc to pay Ms R £250 for the inconvenience and distress 
caused. 
In addition, as this matter caused Ms R to withdraw her money early, I require Secure Trust 
Bank Plc to pay any penalty interest or charges Ms R has paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman