DRN-1414633
Complaint
Mr C says Stagemount Limited (trading as Quid Market) irresponsibly lent to him.          
Background
This complaint is about one high-cost short term credit instalment loan which Quid Market 
provided to Mr C in December 2015. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Cs complaint and thought that he shouldnt have been provided 
with his loan. Quid Market didnt agree. So the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quid Market needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Quid Market should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided. Having 
done so, I think that Quid Market should reasonably have seen that Mr C was unlikely to 
have been able to make the payments to this loan in a sustainable manner. I accept that this was the only loan that Quid Market provided to Mr C. But it says that it 
carried out a credit check. I know that Quid Market says this showed Mr C had no 
outstanding loan balances elsewhere. But it hasnt been able to provide the output of what 
its searches showed. And the information Ive been provided with clearly shows that Mr C 
already had three short-term loans outstanding with significant balances. 
Bearing in mind the check was carried out in 2015 and the amount owing on the existing 
balances, I think its unlikely that Quid Markets credit check would have shown none of this. 
And, in these circumstances, Im satisfied that Quid Market is likely to have been aware of 
these commitments. And the nature and extent of Mr Cs existing credit commitments leads 
me to find that Quid Market ought reasonably to have realised that Mr C was unlikely to be 
able to sustainably repay this loan and so it shouldnt have lent to him.
Mr C had to pay, or hes being expected to pay, interest and charges on a loan that Quid 
Market shouldnt have provided him with. So I think that he lost out and Quid Market should 
put things right.
Putting things right  what Quid Market needs to do
remove all interest and charges applied to Mr Cs loan from the outset. In other 
words, Quid Market needs to ensure that Mr C pays no more than the £400 he was 
originally lent. The payments Mr C made should then be deducted from the new 
starting balance;
 
Quid Market can collect on any remaining outstanding balance once all adjustments 
have been made. But Id remind it of its obligation to exercise forbearance should it 
do so and it be the case that Mr C is experiencing financial difficulty.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. Stagemount Limited should 
put things right in the way that Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman