DRN-1611854
The complaint
Xs complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
X acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service can look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held X responsible for keeping the car in good 
repair and condition. He would be responsible for any damage to or deterioration of 
the vehicle in excess of fair wear and tear.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Briefly summarised, the disputed damage relates to a front bumper, door mirror 
housing, rear bumper, wing left hand front, right hand door, right hand QTR panel 
and left-hand front wheel 
Ive seen photographs of the car taken at around the time of inspection. Ive looked at 
the inspection report and Ive taken account of the relevant guidelines. Based on 
what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the damage identified falls outside of the fair wear 
and tear guidelines. The way in which the guidelines apply to each item of damage 
has been outlined by the investigator and I wont repeat that here.
The damages to the vehicle arent in dispute. X has accepted there is chargeable 
damage. He disputed the actual amount being charged of £1840. He says he had 
already acquired a quote for the cost of the repairs from an independent garage. It 
quoted £800 and so he finds the charges excessive.
Ive considered the charges that have been applied but I dont think the amount being 
charged is excessive and therefore unfair. The charges BVRLA have made for the 
individual areas of damage appear broadly in line with similar charges Ive seen 
raised by their competitors.
I appreciate X gained a quote from an independent garage for significantly less, but 
he didnt undertake those repairs. I understand he says he couldnt due to time 
pressures. But X was supplied with a vehicle agreement when he acquired the car. 
This detailed when damage charges would be applied. As X chose to return the car 
rather than have the repairs carried out beforehand, I dont think MBFS has been 
unfair in applying those charges.
MBFS has also offered a 15% reduction taking the costs down from £1840 to 
£1564.00 as a good will gesture. It didnt need to do this, but I think it is a fair and 
reasonable gesture. I appreciate X may not be able to pay the costs in one sum, and 
if so, I would expect MBFS to be sympathetic and help X with a manageable 
repayment plan.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman