DRN-4124590
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the service hes received from Vitality Corporate Services Limited  
trading as VitalityLife.
What happened
Mr M has a life insurance policy with Vitality. Hes unhappy because Vitality have made 
changes to the scheme. In summary, he says that a once simple and fair scheme has 
become over complicated and biased which means it is impossible to achieve the metrics. 
He wants Vitality to ensure clients can clearly view the health metrics they are being 
measured by. 
In their final response letter Vitality said they had the right to amend the reward programme 
at any time and gave advance notice of any changes. They said Mr M didnt meet the criteria 
for cashback as hed achieved a total of five Green Zones. Unhappy with Vitalitys response 
Mr M complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He said Mr M 
would need nine Green Zones to qualify for cashback. He was also satisfied the changes 
had been communicated to Mr M. 
Mr M didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. He says Vitality didnt 
communicate details of what a zone was and how this could be viewed. Mr M said Vitality 
had made it impossible to meet their reward metrics without incurring additional charges as 
policyholders could only attain the cashback status by spending money with third party 
health providers. He didnt think it was clear this extra cost was mandatory in order to 
participate in the cashback scheme. 
These further points didnt change our investigators thoughts about the overall outcome of 
this complaint. So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint because: 
I think Vitality have given Mr M a reasonable amount of information about how he can 
attain cashback status. That includes the total number of Green Zones required to 
attain cashback and an overview of where his results are, in the member zone. 
Theres also lots of other supporting information thats available to Mr M. 
Based on the information thats available to me I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude Vitalitys cashback scheme is unattainable or impossible in the way Mr M 
has described. I think Vitality has explained in a suitable level of detail how Mr M can 
obtain cashback. 
Ive considered what Mr M has said about needing to pay a third party for health 
checks. However, I dont think thats unreasonable, and details of the arrangements 
with the third-party provider are available via Vitalitys website. So, this hasnt 
changed my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint. 
Im satisfied that Mr M was made aware of an overview of the changes and that he 
had the option to access more information about it. Vitality have provided a link to 
some of this information, but its now expired. I think its most likely that Mr M would 
have been able to access more information via this link at the relevant time. But, in 
any event, I think hes had sufficient access to information about how the policy 
benefits work.   
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman