DRN-4180228
The complaint
Mr P complains Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) provided him with a loan without carrying out appropriate affordability checks. 
What happened
Mr P was granted a loan of £300 on 2 March 2020 and he was due to make three monthly 
instalments of £143.59. Mr P repaid the loan on 30 June 2020 which was one month later 
than contracted for.  
Mr P raised a complaint with MoneyBoat as he felt that the loan should not have been 
provided to him. MoneyBoat then issued its final response letter and explained why it wasnt 
going to uphold the complaint. Unhappy with this response, Mr P referred his complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, who didnt uphold it. She said MoneyBoat 
had reasonable grounds to believe Mr P could afford the loan because it had carried out 
proportionate checks. 
Mr P didnt agree and asked for the case to be reviewed. As no agreement could be 
reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr P could afford to pay back the amount 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks could have taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ps 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr P. These factors include:
Mr P having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr P having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr P coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr P. The adjudicator didnt consider it 
had reached the point in the lending relationship where this applied and I agree, because 
only one loan was granted.  
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay the loan  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr P was able to repay 
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those 
repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ps complaint.
Before the loan was approved, MoneyBoat asked Mr P for details of his income, which he 
declared as being £1,620 per month. MoneyBoat says the declared income figure was 
checked by cross referencing information through a third-party report provided by a credit 
reference agency.  
Mr P also declared monthly outgoings as £900 which included things such as rent / 
mortgage, food, transport and other. As part of the application, MoneyBoat used information 
from its credit searches and or using the Common Financial Statement to bring Mr Ps 
declared expenditure in line with the averages within the above statement. As a result, of this 
check, Mr Ps estimated monthly expenditure was increased by a further £128 per month. 
But even after carrying out these checks, it showed that Mr P had sufficient disposable 
income to be able to afford the monthly repayment that he was committed to making.  
Before the loan was approved MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided a copy of the results it received from the credit reference agency.  Having reviewed 
the credit check results, there isnt anything in the results that wouldve indicated that Mr P 
was having current financial difficulties, for example it knew there were no current insolvency 
markers or debt management plans. And it knew that Mr P hadnt defaulted on any account 
within the last year. 
More than three years before the loan was approved, there were clear signs of financial 
difficulties because at least seven defaults have been recorded. But while some had been 
settled, I dont think these defaults alone wouldve prompted MoneyBoat to have carried out 
further checks due to how long ago they had been recorded  there were historic. 
Having looked at the rest of the credit check results there wasnt anything in my view that 
wouldve prompted MoneyBoat to have either carried out further checks or to have declined 
his application. 
In the final response letter MoneyBoat explained that Mr P had made a number of loan 
applications  41 in total. Ive considered this because that is a high number especially when 
considering only one loan was advanced.  The majority of these applications were submitted after this loan had been repaid and so 
have no bearing on the checks that were conducted when the loan was advanced.  And 
while there were some applications made before this loan (between March 2015 and 
September 2019) these are just too far removed from the start date to have given 
MoneyBoat cause for concern and so wouldnt have prompted it to have made better 
checks. 
Overall, MoneyBoat carried out reasonable and proportionate checks for a first loan of the 
value that was lent. These checks showed it that Mr P could afford the loan and so, I dont 
think it did anything wrong in relation to this loan.
Im therefore not upholding Mr Ps complaint. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment 
for him but I want to reassure him that Ive read and considered everything provided. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman