DRN-2967666
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) didnt review 
their Life Cover (LC) and Critical Illness Cover (CIC) when they extended the term of their 
mortgage. 
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S initially took out their mortgage in September 1996. They had some protection 
at this time. However, LC and CIC were sold to Mr and Mrs S as part of a Total Mortgage 
Protection Policy (TMPP) in 2003 when they applied for additional borrowing. And a 
replacement TMPP was sold to them in 2005 when they applied again for additional 
borrowing. The TMPP included LC and CIC as well as mortgage repayment cover (MRC). 
Mr and Mrs S have told us that Halifax first informed them that they could extend the term of 
their mortgage when they applied for the additional borrowing in 2005. Theyve told us that 
they didnt enquire about it and didnt know they could extend the term until Halifax told 
them. Theyve also explained they called Halifax over twelve months later to find out what 
was required, and they were advised to put the request in writing. They went on to extend 
the term of their mortgage to 22 years in January 2007. 
However, Mr and Mrs S have told us they contacted Halifax about another matter and were 
informed that LC and CIC were due to end soon. And they were unhappy their TMPP hadnt 
also been reviewed at the time they extended the term of their mortgage in 2007. They held 
Halifax responsible for the fact that LC and CIC werent in place for the full duration of their 
mortgage. Therefore, Mr and Mrs S complained to Halifax. 
Halifax responded on 11 June 2020 to Mr and Mrs Ss concerns about the LC and CIC. 
Halifax said that at the time the TMPP was sold in 2005 it was appropriate, and it couldnt 
have been foreseen that Mr and Mrs S would extend the term of the mortgage in January 
2007. They said it was made clear at the time of the sale that the term of the LC and CIC 
elements couldnt be amended in the future. And they said this was an underwriting rule that 
didnt apply to the MRC element. Halifax wrote out separately about the MRC and agreed to 
extend it. 
Mr and Mrs S remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. The investigator issued two 
views on the matter. Overall, he found that the TMPP offered cover on a level term basis and 
this wasnt the most suitable type of cover considering part of the mortgage was repayment 
rather than interest only. Therefore, he felt this part of the complaint should be upheld. But 
he didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong when they didnt review the LC and CIC 
elements of the TMPP at the point the mortgage term was extended. 
Halifax agreed with the investigators findings. But Mr and Mrs S didnt as they remained 
concerned that they werent covered for the full term of the mortgage and that Halifax had 
approached them about extending the duration. Therefore, the case has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is about the LC and CIC elements of the TMPP. I should note that there is 
limited information from the time when the applications for additional borrowing and term 
extension were made. This means I must carefully consider what is likely to have happened 
based on the information I do have.
 
Ive reviewed the illustration for the additional borrowing taken out in 2003. I can see LC and 
CIC were included in the TMPP. Ive also considered Halifaxs correspondence dated 7 May 
2005. Mr and Mrs S say they didnt receive this paperwork at the time. However, Ive seen a 
copy of the letter and its likely Halifax would have sought to confirm the information in 
writing. And Im content, on balance, Halifax sent the letter. 
In the letter, I can see that Halifax confirmed they had recommended Mr and Mrs S take out 
the mortgage based on an assessment of their needs. I can see they confirmed that 
obtaining buildings insurance was a condition of the mortgage. The attached paperwork also 
confirmed that the LC and CIC was due to end in May 2020. Having considered the 
correspondence, Im content that Mr and Mrs S received advice about the additional 
borrowing in 2003 and 2005. 
Halifax have explained that when a customer requests additional borrowing, then it is 
processed through an advisor and an application process. As part of this application process 
it is recommended that they review their protection needs. And Im satisfied this explanation 
is consistent with the correspondence Ive seen from that time as Mr and Mrs S were sold a 
replacement policy.
I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs S have said they also expected it to be reviewed at the 
time they extended the duration of their mortgage in January 2007. However, Halifax have 
explained they consider a term extension request a service need and they dont process it 
through their adviser application. Im not able to tell Halifax how they should process 
different applications, that is a decision for Halifax.
Ive taken into consideration Mr and Mrs Ss account of what Halifax told them about 
extending the mortgage during a telephone call and a visit to the branch. And I note that they 
feel strongly they wouldnt have done this without Halifaxs prompt. But Halifaxs obligations 
would differ depending on whether extending the mortgage term was an advised sale. And 
Im not convinced that by letting Mr and Mrs S know they could extend the term of their 
mortgage or asking them to put the request in writing means this was an advised sale. As a 
result, its necessary to consider the nature of the correspondence in relation to the term 
extension.
 
Mr and Mrs Ss request for an extension to the term of the mortgage was sent to Halifax in 
November 2006. Halifax wrote to them on 11 December. But I cant see there was any 
advice provided in this letter or reference made to advice being given.  
Therefore, Im content its likely that this application was processed on a non-advised basis. 
And this is consistent with Halifaxs explanation that it wasnt processed through their adviser 
application. As it was non-advised, I dont consider it unreasonable that Halifax didnt review 
the LC or CIC Mr and Mrs S had in place to ensure they had cover for the extended duration 
of the mortgage. This is also because having this cover wasnt a condition of the mortgage, and it was open to Mr and Mrs S to seek financial advice about obtaining a level of 
protection that they were satisfied with. 
Mr and Mrs S have also explained that it seemed from the annual reviews they were being 
sent that they did have LC and CIC for the full duration of the extended mortgage term. They 
say this is because there was no end date for the LC and CIC on the reviews. 
Ive considered the annual reviews dated 11 March 2019 and 11 March 2020. It says that it 
is an annual review of optional payment protection insurance on their joint mortgage. I can 
see it stated that the type of cover included LC and CIC and the amounts which would be 
paid out in the event of a claim. There is no date to suggest when this cover ended. But it 
does say the mortgage protected by this cover started in September 1996 and that the 
remaining term of the loan agreement was eight years ten months. The reviews also noted 
that cheaper more appropriate cover may be available from other providers. Ive also seen 
the annual review from March 2021. I can see that next to LC it was noted as non-applicable 
and CIC wasnt referenced.
 
Again, I do appreciate what Mr and Mrs S have said and it would have been useful for the 
reviews to highlight when the LC and CIC were due to end. But I must bear in mind that the 
reviews were intended to summarise the cover in place and provide information about the 
cost of the MRC for the previous year. In that sense it wasnt intended to give detailed policy 
information and Mr and Mrs S would need to refer to the policy documents for this. As 
mentioned, Ive seen the end date of the cover was confirmed in the paperwork sent out in 
2005.
 
In addition to this, Mr and Mrs S had to have a replacement TMPP in 2005 when they were 
accepted for additional borrowing and were sent confirmation of this. Therefore, Im 
persuaded it was reasonably clear that the cover wouldnt be automatically changed with 
amendments to the terms of the mortgage. Halifax have also confirmed that a new policy 
would be needed if the LC and/or CIC term needed increasing. 
In response to the view Mr and Mrs S have highlighted that Halifax agreed to extend the 
duration of the MRC cover to 6 September 2029. However, Im unable to conclude that 
Halifax did something wrong in respect of the LC and CIC because they agreed to extend 
the duration of the MRC. This is for the reasons already set out, but also because they are 
separate elements of the TMPP. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Halifax acted unreasonably by not reviewing the LC and CIC 
when Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage was extended in January 2007. I appreciate that this will be 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs S as they feel strongly about their complaint and I understand 
the difficulties in now obtaining cover. However, Halifax extended the mortgage term, and 
this was via their non-advised process and so I wouldnt have expected them to necessarily 
consider or advise upon Mr and Mrs Ss existing cover. Particularly, because having LC and 
CIC wasnt a condition of the mortgage. Also, when Mr and Mrs S took out the additional 
borrowing, they had to replace their cover and so I think it was reasonably clear that it 
wouldnt be extended automatically. 
However, the TMPP cover was sold on a level term basis and Halifax have accepted that a 
decreasing term would have been more appropriate for the proportion of the mortgage that 
was on a repayment basis (the further advances taken in November 2003 and May 2005). 
They should put this right and Ive explained how below.  
 
Putting things rightMr and Mrs S may have paid more in premiums for cover on a level term basis for part of the 
mortgage which was on a repayment basis. Therefore, Halifax should refund Mr and Mrs S 
the difference between the premiums they paid for the level term assurance policy and those 
they wouldve paid if theyd had a decreasing term assurance policy instead for the 
proportion of the mortgage that was on a repayment basis. Interest should be added to each 
amount and calculated at 8% simple per annum from the date that each premium was paid 
to the settlement date. This is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of the 
complaint.
It should be noted that after calculating the difference between the two types of cover, no 
refund may be due. This is because of the competitive pricing which may mean a decreasing 
term assurance policy might have been more expensive in the circumstances.  
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc should have provided cover on a decreasing term basis for the 
proportion of the mortgage that was on a repayment basis. Bank of Scotland plc should: 
1. Calculate the difference in premiums paid for the level term assurance applied to the 
repayment part of the mortgage and what Mr and Mrs S would have paid for cover on 
a decreasing term instead;
2. Refund the difference if Mr and Mrs S have paid more than they would have with 
cover on a decreasing term basis;
3. Pay interest of 8% simple per annum from the date each premium was paid to the 
date of settlement; and
4. Provide confirmation to Mr and Mrs S if no refund is due. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman