DRN-2411323
The complaint
 Miss W complains that a car acquired with finance from Santander Consumer (UK) Plc 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
 I issued a provisional decision explaining why I proposed to uphold this complaint. In that 
decision, I explained why I thought that the issues with the car were due to a fault and not 
due to Miss Ws driving style. I questioned the independent of the field engineers inspection 
and I said that it wasnt clear whether the field engineer had physically inspected the car. I 
explained why, on the basis of the information Id seen, I wasnt persuaded that the statutory 
presumption that the fault was present at the point of supply had been displaced.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wanted to make 
before I finally determined the matter.
Miss W replied and said she agreed with my provisional decision. Santander replied and 
provided a report from the field engineer who inspected, and road tested the car in July 
2019. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive looked at the further information provided by Santander, but it hasnt changed my 
decision. Ive already explained why I dont consider a manufacturer field engineer to be an 
independent expert and why I think Miss W is justified in querying the independence of the 
inspection which took place in July 2019. 
It wasnt clear from the information provided previously whether a physical inspection took 
place in July 2019. Based on what Ive seen now, Im satisfied that a physical inspection took 
place, but having read the report, Im not persuaded that the fault was caused by Miss Ws 
driving style. The engineer states that he drove the car in a similar way to what he believed 
Miss W would have been doing. Theres no evidence to suggest that the engineer had any 
knowledge of how Miss W drove the car, and, whether she approached roundabouts at low 
speed whilst downshifting the gear indicator. I havent seen anything to suggest that Miss W 
drove in this way and it isnt consistent with her testimony.
Im also persuaded that there was a fault because the technician from the dealership noticed 
the car jerking and hesitation when he road tested it. This suggest that the fault wasnt 
anything to do with Miss Ws driving style because she wasnt driving at this point.  
Putting things right
 I remain of the view that theres a fault with the car which renders it of unsatisfactory quality 
at the point of supply. Santander should allow Miss W to reject the car. I also remain of the 
view that Santander should pay compensation to Miss W for the inconvenience shes been 
caused due to being without use of the car since June 2019.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Santander Consumer (UK) Plc must:
Allow Miss W to reject the car
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for collection of the car at no cost to Miss W
Refund the deposit and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
Pay £250 compensation to Miss W for distress and inconvenience
Refund all payments made by Miss W except for the first payment and pay 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Remove any adverse entries on Miss Ws credit file in relation to the agreement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 February 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman