DRN-4446006
The complaint
Miss S complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream (Lending Stream) 
allowed her to take out loans which she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
A summary of Miss Ss borrowing can be found in the table below.
loan number loan amount agreement date repayment date
1 £100.00 27-05-2021 12-11-2021
2 £100.00 26-09-2021 11-03-2022
3 £100.00 28-09-2021 18-03-2022
4 £100.00 18-04-2022 07-10-2022
5 £100.00 09-05-2022 23-10-2022
6 £770.00 04-11-2022 15-03-2023
These were all instalment loans paid through weekly payments.  
Following Miss Ss complaint, Lending Stream wrote to her to explain why it wasnt going to 
uphold the complaint about loans 1 and 2.  But Lending Stream did accept for loans 3  6 
that it might not have been a good idea for us to make these loans. It then outlined the 
offer that it was prepared to make:
Refund the interest Miss S had paid towards loans 3  6 and to that sum it would add 
8% simple interest and then deduct the required tax at a rate of 20%.
Use this refund to offset any outstanding balance. 
Any adverse information about loans 3, 4 and 5 was to be removed from Miss Ss 
credit file. 
It will also ask to delete the credit file record in relation to loan 6. 
Unhappy with this response, Miss S referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The case was then considered by an adjudicator. She firstly said the offer Lending Stream 
had made was in line with what we wouldve recommended had we upheld the complaint 
about loans 3 - 6. So, she didnt consider those loans further.  
Secondly, she didnt uphold the complaint about loans 1 and 2 because Lending Stream had 
carried out proportionate checks which showed the loans to be potentially affordable. There 
also wasnt anything else to suggest the two loans were unsustainable for her. 
Miss S didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment and instead asked for an ombudsman 
to review the complaint. The complaint has then been passed to me to resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream had to assess the lending to check if Miss S could afford to pay back the 
amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances of the application. Lending Streams checks couldve 
taken into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size 
of the repayments, and Miss Ss income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Lending Stream should 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss S. These factors 
include:
Miss S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss S. The adjudicator didnt consider 
this applied in Miss Ss complaint in relation to loans 1 and 2 and I would agree.   
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Miss S could sustainably repay the loans 
 not just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having 
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that 
Miss S was able to repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is 
the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ss complaint.
Loans 1 and 2
As part of her application for these loans, Miss S declared a monthly income of £1,520 for 
both loans. Lending Stream says it didnt feel it needed to make any adjustments to this 
income figure based on what it knew about Miss S.  
Miss S also declared monthly outgoings of £450 for loan 1 and £325 for loan 2. For loan 1 
this was broken down as £350 for normal expenses with £100 being attributed to credit 
commitments. However, Lending Stream says it looks at other information such as statistics 
that relate to the general population and it considered how much people typically spend with 
their income. Having carried out this further check, Lending Stream added an additional 
£339 per month to Miss Ss declared expenditure. The same process was carried out for loan 2, and this time Lending Stream only added £89 
to Miss Ss declared outgoings. Even based on the amended expenditure information, the 
loans looked affordable. 
Before each loan was approved Lending Stream also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a summary spreadsheet of the results it received 
from the credit reference agency. I want to add that, although Lending Stream carried out a 
credit search, there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific 
standard.
Lending Stream was also entitled to rely on the information it was given by the credit 
reference agency. So, Ive looked at the results to see whether there was anything contained 
within it that wouldve either prompted Lending Stream to have carried out further checks or 
possibly have declined Miss Ss application.
Having looked at the credit check results, in my view there wasnt anything that wouldve 
prompted Lending Stream to have carried out further checks before either loan was 
advanced. 
Lending Stream knew for loan 1 that Miss S had five active accounts leading to an estimated 
monthly repayment to service those accounts of £136 per month. For loan 2, Miss S had 
nine active accounts with estimated monthly payments of £267. 
Now, these payments are larger than the commitments that Miss S declared to 
Lending Stream as part of her application. So really Lending Stream ought to have used the 
figures it was given from the credit reference agency when thinking about Miss Ss credit 
commitments. It didnt do this, but had Lending Stream done that, it wouldve come to the 
same conclusion. That Miss S had sufficient disposable income to potentially afford the 
combined weekly repayment of £15.75 when loans 1 and 2 were running concurrently. 
For both loans Lending Stream was told that Miss S hadnt defaulted on any accounts within 
the last three years or had any delinquent accounts either. Overall, there wasnt any signs, 
from the credit check to indicate Miss S was in financial difficulties, or to have prompted 
Lending Stream to carry out further checks.  
Given it was early on in the lending relationship  at this point Miss S had only been granted 
two loans. I think it was reasonable for Lending Stream to have relied on the information 
Miss S provided to it  which showed she had sufficient disposable income to afford the 
repayments. There also wasnt anything to suggest that Miss S was having either current 
financial difficulties or to indicate the loan repayments would be unsustainable for her. 
Taking everything into account, I do no not uphold Miss Ss complaint about loans 1 and 2. 
Loans 3 - 6
Lending Stream has also accepted, in the final response letter that these four loans ought to 
not have been provided  I therefore dont need to make a finding on that aspect because 
these loans are no longer in dispute. 
In addition, the redress Lending Stream has proposed is in line with what the 
Financial Ombudsmen wouldve recommended, if it was decided those loans ought to not 
have been granted. 
Ive set out below what Lending Stream has agreed to do to put things right as a fair 
outcome for the complaint.Putting things right
Its possible, this refund has already been made, but for clarity and completeness, 
Lending Stream needs to do the following and which it has already agreed to do  if it has 
not already done so. If the redress has already been paid, Lending Stream wont need to 
take any further action. 
Although Lending Stream has said, in the file that loan 6 has been repaid, for the purposes 
of this redress, and to mirror what it originally offered it should do:
A. Lending Stream should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss S 
towards interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding 
balance, not including anything Lending Stream have already refunded.
B. Lending Stream should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments 
made by Miss S which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss 
S originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Lending Stream should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on 
any upheld outstanding loan  loan 6, and treat any repayments made by Miss S as 
though they had been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this 
results in Miss S having made overpayments then Lending Stream should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
Lending Stream should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move 
to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this 
results in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Miss S. However, if there is 
still an outstanding balance then Lending Stream should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Miss S. 
E. Lending Stream should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ss credit 
file in relation to loans 3, 4 and 5. The overall pattern of Miss Ss borrowing for loan 6 
means any information recorded about it is adverse, so Lending Stream should 
remove the loan entirely from Miss Ss credit file. Lending Stream does not have to 
remove loan 6 from Miss Ss credit file until it has been repaid, but Lending Stream 
should still remove any adverse information recorded about it.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to deduct tax from this interest. 
Lending Stream should give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if 
she asks for one.
My final decision
Gain Credit LLC has already made an offer for loans 3  6 as outline in the final response 
letter to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Gain Credit LLC should pay the offer it has already agreed to pay, if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman