DRN-3319413
The complaint
For several years, Miss S has held a current bank account, called a 123 account, with 
Santander UK Plc (Santander). Miss S doesnt think that Santander has paid her the right 
amount of interest on this account and owes her some money. 
What happened
Miss S opened her 123 account during 2016. For quite a while, Santander paid her the 
interest she expected. However, during 2020-2021 she didnt receive any interest for several 
months. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Miss Ss complaint and thought that 
Santander had acted fairly when the interest stopped. The adjudicator didnt recommend that 
Santander should pay Miss S any further interest. Miss S didnt agree with the adjudicators 
findings and asked for an ombudsman to review her case. So, it has come to me to make a 
final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander charges customers a monthly fee for the 123 account. In return, it provides 
several potential benefits. For example, customers can earn financial rewards, known as 
cashback , for certain types of purchase they make with the account. And subject to certain 
conditions, customers can earn interest on their balances when they are in credit.
Santander has described the conditions for earning interest in a leaflet called Key Facts. I 
have seen a copy of this leaflet from around the time Santander sold the 123 account to 
Miss S. On the first page, it had a section called Interest and Cashback which set out the 
conditions for these two benefits. These conditions said that to qualify for the two benefits, 
customers must: 
Pay in at least £500 a month. 
Have at least two active direct debits. 
For earning credit interest only, have a minimum current account balance of at least 
£1,000. 
Santander has told us that it gave Miss S a copy of the key facts leaflet when she opened 
the 123 account. This was its usual practice in 2016 and Im satisfied that it did give her such 
a leaflet. If Miss S opened the 123 account online, then I am satisfied that Santanders 
computer system would also have brought the conditions to her attention. 
It seems that until August 2020, Miss Ss account satisfied the conditions for earning 
interest. She has told us that throughout this time she had two active direct debits (DD1 and 
DD2) and regularly received interest on her account. However, due to the Covid-19 
pandemic, in August 2020 she had to cancel DD1 and so her account fell outside the 
conditions. The interest stopped. Miss S has said that she didnt notice this until May 2021. 
She didnt know why the interest had stopped so went into one of Santanders branches to 
find out. Santander explained the conditions to her and she set up another direct debit (DD3) 
to bring her back within their scope. However, very shortly after this, the payee for DD2 
stopped taking it. So, the interest stopped again. (Im not sure if DD2 and DD3 were ever 
active alongside each other for long enough for Miss Ss account to qualify for any interest, 
but this uncertainty has no significant impact on the outcome of this complaint). 
Santander didnt notify Miss S on either occasion that she didnt have two active direct debits 
and so would not earn interest. She has made two main points about this in her complaint. 
She thinks that Santander should have warned her that cancelling DD1 would lead to 
her interest stopping. She has pointed out that by August 2020 she had held the 123 
account for a long time and couldnt remember how the conditions worked, so 
Santander should have alerted her.
As well as complaining that Santander didnt tell her that the payee had cancelled 
DD2, Miss S also thinks that as it was the payee (not her) who made the cancellation, 
Santander should have paid interest as if DD2 was still active. 
I fully accept that Santander did not alert Miss S that her 123 account wasnt earning 
interest, but I dont think it was obliged to do so. I havent seen anything in Santanders 
publicity material or terms and conditions which implied it would do this. So, as Im satisfied 
that it brought the conditions to Miss Ss attention when it sold her the 123 account (and 
hadnt changed them significantly in the intervening years), I think it met its obligations to 
her.
While I dont think Santander did anything wrong by not alerting Miss S when she had less 
than two active direct debits, for her benefit, I would also like to add that Santander did send 
her reminders about the conditions with her regular bank statements. Santander has sent us 
copies of some of these statements which mentioned the conditions. The exact wording 
seems to have varied from time-to-time, but as examples, the statement for the month 
ending 20 August 2020 said:
Credit interest rate: 0.60% AER/gross (variable) on balances up to 20,000 GBP. Pay 
at least 500 GBP into your account each month and have at least 2 active Direct 
Debits.
 
And the statement for the month ending 21 December 2020 said:
...To receive cashback and interest you must pay in at least £500 a month and have a 
minimum of two active Direct Debits....
Turning to Miss Ss second point, I fully accept that it was the payee, not her, who cancelled 
DD2. I do not know exactly why it did this (which is something Miss S may, of course, 
discuss with the payee organisation if she so wishes). But I cant hold Santander 
responsible. Its responsibility was to pay the direct debits when they were claimed by the 
payee, and not to pay them when they werent. It seems to have done this correctly. I see no 
reason to tell it to pay Miss S interest as if DD2 had remained active. 
Miss S has also mentioned that one of the direct debits she tried to set up (which may have 
been DD3 or another one) was also cancelled, although she is not sure why. She has simply told us that somehow in the process it got cancelled also. I understand that in the course of 
Santanders own investigation of Miss Ss complaint it made her a small compensation or 
goodwill payment for this and Im satisfied that Miss S didnt lose out.
So, in summary, I think Santander behaved reasonably when it stopped paying interest on 
Miss Ss 123 account while she had less than two active direct debits; and although there 
may have been some difficulties setting up new direct debits, Santander seems to have 
responded to these difficulties fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Miss Ss complaint about 
Santander UK Plc. I am not going to tell it to pay her any interest.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman