DRN-1968332
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. It was part of an insurance package called a Total Mortgage Protection Plan, or TMPP 
for short. Mr and Mrs O paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract 
interest. It covered Mr O, in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Mr and Mrs O say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them the PPI.
What happened
I sent Mr and Mrs O and Halifax a provisional decision on 31 May 2020, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Mr and Mrs Os mortgage application had a section for TMPP. It said it was something 
Halifax recommended they thought about  this was only a recommendation, not a 
requirement. There was a box which could be signed if Mr and Mrs O wanted to apply for 
TMPP, or which could be left blank if they didnt want it. Mr and Mrs O signed specifically for 
the package, separately to signing the application as a whole. Ive not seen any wider 
problems with Halifaxs sales process from the time  from what I have seen, it seems they 
normally set out the insurance as being a separate cost to the mortgage, and not part and 
parcel of the lending, and only set it up if the customer actively chose it. It looks like Halifax 
followed its normal sales process here, and Ive not seen any evidence which shows it 
misled Mr and Mrs O or unfairly pressured them into having PPI. So I think its most likely 
that Halifax made Mr and Mrs O aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that 
they chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if they no longer recall doing so 
after so many years.
Halifax recommended the PPI for Mr O, so it had to check it was right for him. And based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like Mr O 
was the sole earner, was eligible for the cover, and wasnt affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
While Mr O had work benefits and savings, the PPI offered him significantly more 
comprehensive cover. It wouldve paid out on top of his work benefits, covered him for much 
longer, and it meant Mr and Mrs O could effectively protect their savings and use them for 
other things. And its worth bearing in mind that if Mr and Mrs O fell behind on their 
mortgage, they couldve lost their home. So it looks like the PPI couldve really been useful 
for them in protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs O about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs O chose to take out PPI, which indicates 
they wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, Mr O wasnt affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for Mr and Mrs O in 
case something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would 
pay out in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs O could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely 
to have put them off taking out the cover.
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs O paid for it. But Halifax has now offered to give Mr and Mrs O back some of the 
cost of the PPI as a goodwill gesture. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
29 June 2020. But neither Mr and Mrs O nor Halifax had anything further to add.
What Ive decided and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  which is that in this particular case, 
Halifax doesnt need to do anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman