DRN-2794371
The complaint
Miss B complains that Skipton Building Society delayed processing a payment she made 
into her Lifetime Individual Savings Account (LISA).
What happened
Miss B had a LISA with Skipton. She says she made a faster payment into the account on 5 
April 2020, but Skipton didnt process it until 6 April 2020. The payment amount was £3500. 
She says that Skiptons delay meant she could only make a further subscription of £500 into 
her LISA for the tax year ending 5 April 2021. And she says shes missed out on the bonus 
she shouldve received for the tax year ending 5 April 2020.
She complained to Skipton. It investigated her complaint. It said that 5 April 2020 was a 
Sunday. It didnt process faster payments on non-working days and Sunday was a non-
working day. It also said it had put information on its website to inform its customers what the 
cut off time was for payments into Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs) for the tax year ending 
5 April 2020. It didnt uphold her complaint.
Miss B wasnt satisfied with this response. She said that Skiptons website said,
 faster payments by other providers will be processed and applied to your account 
within 2 hours of receipt regardless of the day or time they arrived. 
Miss B provided screen shots which showed her account entries on Skiptons online banking 
service indicated that the date of the credit to her account had been 5 April 2020. She 
complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into her complaint. She thought that Skipton hadnt made an error 
here. She said that Miss B had provided a screenshot showing that the payment had only 
been sent by the paying bank on 6 April 2020. She said that payments were only processed 
on banking days. She also said Skipton had put a message on its website to warn customers 
that 5 April 2020 was not a banking day.
Miss B didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B asked her bank to send a faster payment to Skipton on 4 April. It appears she issued 
that instruction at 11.59pm on that date.  Shes shown us a screenshot of her LISA with 
Skipton which shows a transaction dated 5 April 2020 for the amount shed paid in. So, I can 
understand why Miss B has complained when she later realised that the payment wasnt 
credited to her Skipton account until 6 April 2020.
Ive looked at the details provided by the paying bank. I can see that the information its 
provided shows that even though Miss B issued her payment instruction on 4 April 2020, the 
payment wasnt taken from her bank account until 6 April 2020. So, although Skipton may 
have been notified of the intended faster payment and recorded that on its systems, it 
couldnt have received the funds from the paying bank until 6 April 2020 at the earliest.
Miss B has referred us to the wording on Skiptons website about processing and applying 
faster payments within 2 hours of receipt regardless of the day or time they arrived. Ive 
looked at the webpage shes referred to. But, I can see that there is other information on that 
page which is relevant when considering what the time of receipt is. The webpage also 
says the following, just above the extract Miss Bs referred:
The day we receive the money will depend on when the payment instruction was 
made to the payers bank or building society and any cut-off point, for example if an 
instruction to make a payment is received after a given cut-off time e.g. 8pm it may 
not be sent to us until the following working day. Saturdays, Sundays and English 
bank holidays are not working days for this purpose.
I think this makes clear that payments sent on Saturdays and Sundays wouldnt be received 
by Skipton until the next working day. Thats also in line with the information Miss Bs 
provided to us from her bank which says that although the transaction was dated 4 April at 
11.59pm, it wasnt taken from her bank account until 6 April. 
The account entries shown on Miss Bs account with Skipton do show that the transaction 
was dated 5 April 2020. So, I can see why that may have caused her to believe that that was 
the date it had received the payment. 
Ive looked at information about how faster payments work. That information is published by 
Faster Payments Scheme Limited (part of pay.uk) and is available online. It explains that 
when a customer instructs his or her bank to make a faster payment, that bank will send the 
instruction to the receiving bank (in this case Skipton) to check that the account number is 
valid. But its after this that the payment itself is sent. The information published by Faster 
Payments Service also says that customers should check with their own bank to guarantee 
payments on weekends.
So, I think thats what happened on 5 April 2020. Skipton received details about the payment 
and was able to check that the account number was valid. But, it didnt receive the payment 
until it was sent on 6 April 2020  which was the next working day.
Skipton sent Miss B an email to confirm that the payment of £3500 had reached her account 
on 6 April 2020. At that date, Miss B wouldve known from the information in the email and 
the details from her own bank that, despite the transaction date stated on Skiptons online 
banking service, shed missed the tax year end. She doesnt appear to have queried this 
until February 2021. 
Ive also considered the other important information for ISA payments Skipton says it put 
on its website about the tax year end for April 2020. If Miss B had looked at that information, 
she wouldve seen that Skipton reminded its customers that payments by bank transfer had 
to be made before 5pm on 3 April. It listed other types of payments and the last date to send 
such payments. It also said that payments not made by these deadlines may not reach the 
account until 6 April. So, having looked at this information, I think Skipton did try to inform its 
customers about what they needed to do if they wanted to be sure that payments would be 
made into their ISAs before the end of the tax year.Having considered everything here, whilst I know it will come as a disappointment to Miss B, 
I agree with what our investigator said. Skipton hasnt made an error. In these 
circumstances, I dont expect it to have to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Skipton Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman