DRN-2921085
The complaint
Mr L complains about how Soteria Insurance Limited (trading as Co-op Insurance) handled a 
claim from a third party on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L had a collision with another car in a car park in 2019. Mr L says the damage to his own 
car was very minor, and he didnt make a claim on his insurance for it. But the driver of the 
other car claimed against Mr Ls insurance. 
After watching CCTV footage of the incident, Co-op took the view that Mr L was responsible 
for the accident. So it settled the claim with the other drivers insurer and recorded the claim 
as a fault claim on Mr Ls policy.
Mr L was unhappy with Co-ops decision. He says the record of the fault claim against him 
has affected his no claims bonus and future insurance premiums. Hes consistently said that 
he wasnt to blame for the incident. He says his car was stationary when the collision 
happened. And he says the other car didnt have a valid MOT at the time, so he believes it 
shouldnt have been on the road.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ls complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he accepted that the third party had been moving when the collision took place. 
But he didnt accept Mr Ls assertion that the third party had been reversing in the wrong 
direction. The investigator wasnt convinced that the accident was entirely Mr Ls fault. But 
he thought that the best outcome from Mr Ls point of view would have been a 50:50 split on 
liability. And he explained that this would still have been recorded on Mr Ls record as a fault 
claim. So although he thought Co-op had been a little hasty in settling the claim, he didnt 
think Mr L had lost out as a result.
Mr L disagreed with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
I should start by explaining that it isnt our role to decide who was, in fact, responsible for an 
accident. Thats a matter for the courts. Instead, I need to decide whether the insurer has 
acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when 
deciding to settle the claim.
Under the terms of Mr Ls motor insurance policy, Co-op was entitled to take over a claim 
from a third party and to defend it or settle it as it saw fit. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies. Insurers are entitled to decide whether its reasonable to contest a third-
party claim.
I can see that Co-op initially noted liability for the accident on its file as uncertain, pending 
further evidence. Then a couple of months after the accident the third partys insurers sent 
Co-op CCTV footage of the incident. Having watched the footage, Co-op took the view that 
Mr L was responsible for the accident. It said hed failed to notice that the other driver had 
stopped behind him, and he reversed into their car.
Mr L disputed this. His view was that it was the other car that was moving when the accident 
happened. And he thought it had been carrying out an illegal manoeuvre. He asked Co-op to 
provide a copy of the CCTV footage so that he could view it himself. Co-op tried to get 
permission to share the footage with Mr L, but wasnt able to.
Ive seen Co-ops notes of the phone call in which it told Mr L that it would have to accept 
liability. It had viewed the footage again and it said that it had reached the same conclusion 
as it had previously done  namely that Mr L had caused the accident by reversing into the 
other car. And it didnt agree with Mr L that the other car was reversing the wrong way. Co-
op suggested to Mr L that he could try to contact the owner of the CCTV camera with a view 
to getting a copy of the footage. 
Ive viewed the CCTV footage of the incident. I can see that the other car entered the car 
park in which Mr L was parked, and drove down the lane behind Mr Ls car. It seems that 
Mr L hadnt seen the other car when he started to reverse out of his parking space towards 
it. It looks as if his view was initially obstructed by a large car in the next bay. Meanwhile, the 
other car stopped briefly, before starting to reverse into a parking space on the opposite side 
of the lane from Mr L. 
Mr L stopped suddenly when the cars were very close together. It seems likely that this was 
when he noticed the other car, but its possible that Mr L stopped because the cars had 
come into contact. I accept that its also possible that, as Mr L says (and as our investigator 
thought), the collision happened after he stopped, and it was only the other car that was 
moving at the time. But if that was the case, Mr L had only stopped moving around a second 
before. The footage is clear, but the angle from which its taken means its not possible to be 
absolutely sure. 
In its final response to Mr Ls complaint, Co-op said it had considered Mr Ls version of 
events, alongside the CCTV footage. It said Mr Ls vehicle was performing a more high risk 
manoeuvre, and that Mr L would be held responsible for the collision. I think Co-op could 
perhaps have explained this more clearly. But I dont think its conclusion was unfair or 
unreasonable. The other car hadnt acted unreasonably  - still less illegally - by driving the 
correct way down the lane in the car park and starting to reverse into a parking space. It was 
already in the lane into which Mr L was reversing, and Mr Ls manoeuvre put the two cars on 
a collision course. Even if Mr L stopped before the moment of impact, it was only just before, 
and by that time the other driver would have had very little time to react.
As Ive already explained, its not for me to decide who was actually responsible for the 
accident. But like the investigator, I dont think Co-op acted unreasonably in deciding that 
Mr L was at least partly responsible. It might be that there was some scope for argument 
about whether it was his sole or partial responsibility. But the impact on Mr Ls insurance 
record of accepting full liability on Mr Ls part is no different than it would have been if Co-op 
had decided that liability should be split between Mr L and the other driver. It would still have 
been recorded as a fault claim. And the question of whether the other car had a valid MOT 
at the time of the incident doesnt affect my conclusion. Thats a separate matter and has no 
bearing on the question of liability for the accident. I acknowledge that Mr L is dissatisfied that hes not seen the CCTV footage himself. And 
I understand his frustration. Im satisfied that Co-op has sought the other drivers insurers 
permission to send Mr L the CCTV footage more than once. But the footage belongs to the 
owner of the camera. And the other drivers insurer has explained that they were unable to 
get a reply from the camera owner, despite chasing for a response. In the circumstances, Im 
unable to share the footage with Mr L, but would like to reassure him that Ive watched it 
carefully, several times, before reaching my conclusion.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L. But taking everything into account, I cant fairly uphold his 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman