DRN-2845884
The complaint
Mr H complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Honda Finance Europe Plc (Honda).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Honda, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Honda, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr H. The car here was almost 
new and had only completed about 1,000 miles so I dont think a reasonable person would 
expect much, if any, wear to be present.
The relevant legislation explains that we should consider whether the goods have proven to 
be durable when we consider whether a vehicle has been of satisfactory quality.
I dont think the drivers seat in this car has been suitably durable. Mr H has explained that 
the seat cushion foam started to degrade and photographs hes provided show the cushion 
cover and squab cover have worn. I understand Hondas view that wear can happen for a 
variety of reasons, but seats are tested to ensure they can withstand those conditions over a 
prolonged period of time, and I dont think a reasonable person would expect a seat to wear 
so appreciably within the first 15,000 miles of driving. I think its therefore likely this seat 
failed prematurely.
The relevant legislation gives the business one opportunity to repair a fault that is present or 
developing (as is the case here) at the point of supply. That fault should be resolved in a 
reasonable timeframe, but It wasnt. The remedy on offer was limited and would have 
required Mr H to contribute to the rectification cost and I dont think that was reasonable. So, 
I think the business should have allowed Mr H to reject the car.
And, even if Im wrong about that, Mr H could also have successfully requested a rejection 
on the grounds that a faulty parking sensor could not be rectified. Honda say he didnt 
complain about that until a few weeks before he sold the car, but Ive read Mr Hs testimony 
and its clear he was aware there was no fix for the problem as he has another Honda with a 
similar issue covered by the same technical bulletin. Hed been speaking to the dealership 
about that problem since the end of 2018 and he was clearly aware he would have to wait 
for a new, modified, grille to be available from the manufacturer. He would therefore have no 
reason to raise it with the finance company.
So, for those reasons I think Mr H should have been allowed to reject the car as it wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. But Mr H decided to sell the vehicle in April 2019 so the option to reject it 
is no longer available to him. Ive therefore considered how best to put things right.
Putting things right
When this service tells a business to allow rejection of goods, financed under a hire 
purchase agreement, we would usually tell them to end the finance agreement; refund any 
deposit paid and refund all finance instalments paid less those that could reasonably be 
withheld by the business in respect of the use the consumer had from the goods. 
Mr H was able to drive the car 15,571 miles before he sold it and that represents about 
average mileage. I dont think his usage of the car was significantly impacted by the worn 
seat and the parking sensor issue will only have been a problem when driving in certain 
conditions. So, I think he did have reasonable use of the vehicle and it would be fair for 
Honda to retain all of the finance instalments he paid in respect of that use. 
But Mr H paid a substantial deposit for the car and that will need to be returned to him along 
with interest as hes been deprived of that money. Honda say that will mean hes not been 
paying for the car, but I disagree. Mr H was paying for the car through his monthly 
instalments. Its only fair to return the deposit to him as that was being used to fund the car 
over its full term and that term was not concluded. Mr H was therefore deprived of the 
opportunity to purchase the car at the end of the agreement as the terms allowed. The 
deposit will be required to fund an alternative vehicle.
Mr H is upset because he feels he was offered a seat cover only for that offer to be 
retracted. Whilst I dont think its fair to tell Honda to honour a mistake they made I do think 
they should compensate Mr H for that mistake. Having considered the investigators view of 
this I would agree that £50 is sufficient.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Honda Finance Europe Plc 
to:
refund Mr Hs deposit and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;pay Mr H £50 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused by their 
mistaken advice.
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Hs credit file in relation to 
these issues.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman