DRN-1385850
 
The complaint
Mr P complains about how Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax dealt with him following 
an account block.
What happened
Mr P says an attempted transaction was blocked by Halifax in May 2019 which he takes no 
issue with. He says his call to Halifax took some 10 minutes to be answered, which is too 
long and Halifax's security questions were unreasonable. Mr P says Halifax's attitude and 
response to what took place doesn't inspire confidence and would like it to improve its 
service. He also says £75 appeared in his account without explanation and Halifax told him 
to set up voice recognition which he has done twice.
Halifax says it followed its security process and so hasn't made a mistake or acted unfairly. It 
says 10 minutes waiting time is not unreasonable but accepts it didn't call Mr P back as 
agreed, and paid £75 compensation for that.
Mr P brought his complaint to us and says he doesn't want compensation but would 
like Halifax's processes to be brought in order and improved.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought Halifax's had provided poor customer 
service but thought the compensation offer was fair . The investigator thought it up to Halifax 
to decide what its security questions should be, and as we are not the regulator, we couldn't 
tell Halifax to change its process or policies.
Mr P questions why Halifax's complaint response letter gave him referral rights to us if we 
can't place pressure on Halifax on these matters. He says offering compensation doesn't 
solve the problem
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator.
I appreciate that the investigator has explained that we are not the regulator of banks and 
building societies. So it's not our role to tell a business how it operates. I accept that Halifax's 
final response letters gave Mr P referral rights to us. And so, I understand why Mr 
P questions the purpose of those rights, if there is nothing we can do about his complaint. 
But I'm satisfied that there are areas of Mr P's complaint that we can look at, such as the 
complaint for which Halifax offered compensation .So I don't think Halifax made a mistake 
by providing those referral rights. I also appreciate that Mr P doesn't want compensation and 
so there is little point me addressing that issue any further.
For the reasons I have explained I am satisfied that it's up to Halifax to decide what its 
security , fraud policies and procedures are and what questions it asks of its customers to establish identity. I think such matters are for a business to decide upon when it exercises its 
commercial judgement and not something I can fairly interfere in. But I appreciate what Mr P 
says about some of the questions, and the ability of a customer to know the month and year 
an account was opened some 20 years ago.
Overall I'm satisfied that the main part of Mr P's complaint concerns the way in which Halifax 
operates and its policies and procedures. And what Mr P would like is for Halifax to improve 
the way in which it deals with these matters and how it runs its business. I have explained 
those are not matters this service can deal with. I also make clear that I don't think Halifax 
can be responsible for Mr P not receiving its letters, as its not responsible for the delivery of 
mail. If Mr P wishes to make a complaint about the voice recognition issue then he will need 
to complain directly to Halifax, as I don't think it has looked into that complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman