DRN-3696093
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with delays in Santander UK Plc (Santander) changing the address for his 
current account. Mr C says that this meant he was unable to provide a bank statement with 
his new address which he required for an investment that he wanted to make. He says that 
this caused a loss of around £7,000 in interest that he could have received.
What happened
In February 2022 Mr C attempted to change his address as he had recently moved to a new 
house. He requested a bank account statement with his new address as he says he needed 
this to open an investment with the proceeds from a house sale. He says he was told that a 
statement with the new address would not be available until March 2022. Mr C subsequently 
did not receive a bank statement that was correctly addressed until June and raised this 
matter with Santander. 
Santander admitted that there was an error at their end and made an offer of compensation 
of £250. Mr C did not agree with this offer as he felt that he missed out on many months of 
interest as he was unable to transfer the large amount of funds in his account until the 
updated statement was received. He therefore referred his complaint to the financial 
ombudsman service.
One of our investigators looked into this matter already. She did think that whilst Santander 
were at fault for delaying the change of address and providing a bank statement, she 
believed that Mr C couldve used different address verification and therefore Mr C did not 
mitigate his financial loss. She therefore was of the opinion that the £250 compensation that 
had been offered was sufficient given the overall circumstances of this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, it doesnt appear to be in dispute that Santander made an error 
by not updating Mr Cs address. Therefore, all that is left for me to consider is whether what 
Santander has offered to put matters right is reasonable.
Firstly I will address the loss in interest that Mr Cs says he suffered from. Mr C says that the 
delays in his address being updated and bank statements being produced caused him a 
significant financial loss as he was unable to transfer the proceeds of a house sale into an 
investment account. He has said that he was unable to provide any other document to prove 
his address and where the funds were originating from and this meant he was unable to 
make the investment.
We have asked Mr C to demonstrate this loss and that it was not preventable by him. I say 
this because we would usually expect someone to mitigate any loss that they were going to 
suffer from. Mr C has provided information that shows the address verification requirements 
of the three institutions that he attempted to open accounts with and they broadly state that 
apart from a driving license (which he says he needed to use for id verification so could not 
use for address verification) they could only accept bank/credit card statements, utility bills, 
mortgage documentation or lease documentation. 
Mr C has explained that he was not responsible for the utility bills in his new address and 
had no lease or mortgage documentation. So I accept that on the face of it, it may have been 
difficult for him to open an account specifically with these three institutions. But this does not 
mean that he could not make alternative arrangements so he could carry out a different 
investment or indeed put the funds somewhere else to earn interest whilst he was waiting for 
the updated bank statement. I also see no reason why he could not be added temporarily to 
a utility bill, or use a passport for id purposes if the matter was as urgent as Mr C claims that 
it was.
So I dont think that it would be reasonable for Santander to be liable for the loss that Mr Cs 
says he suffered from.
That said I am satisfied that Santanders error wouldve caused Mr C distress and 
inconvenience. So I do think that Mr C is entitled to compensation for this. I should stress 
that awards that we make for distress and inconvenience are not intended to punish or fine a 
business. 
I have considered everything that has been provided and I overall I think that £250 that has 
been offered by Santander is a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused by 
having to contact it on a number of occasion to amend his address and receive an updated 
statement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Santander UK Plc to pay Mr C £250 to reflect the distress 
and inconvenience caused by this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman