DRN-1506742
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him a fee-
paying FlexPlus packaged bank account, which he took out in September 2016.
Mr H says the account was mis-sold because Nationwide failed to make it clear that the 
travel insurance provided by the account only provided basic cover and that account holders 
should take out further cover. Mr H also says that Nationwide should be held responsible for 
choosing a travel insurer with a deficient claims handling service.
What happened
Mr H and his family unfortunately had to make a claim on the travel insurance provided by 
his FlexPlus account, due to his son taking ill whilst abroad. 
Mr H submitted a claim with the insurer. But unhappy with how the claim was handled and 
how it was settled, Mr H submitted a complaint to the insurer. And, as the travel insurance 
was provided through his packaged bank account with Nationwide, he also submitted a 
complaint with Nationwide too. 
This complaint solely concerns whether Nationwide did anything wrong or acted 
unreasonably.
One of our adjudicators considered Mr Hs complaint and she concluded that Nationwide 
had not mis-sold the account. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators findings and so the 
complaint has been referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about mis-sold packaged bank accounts on our 
website, and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint.
As this complaint is against Nationwide, I can only consider whether it did anything wrong in 
relation to the Flex Plus account. Therefore whilst I understand that Mr H is unhappy with 
how the insurer dealt with his claim, Im unable to address whether the insurer did anything 
wrong or acted unreasonably in this decision.
Having looked at everything that Mr H and Nationwide have provided, I am unable to 
conclude that the account had been mis-sold or that Nationwide has acted unreasonably. I 
will explain why.
When Mr H took out the account in 2016, he did so by applying for it online. Because of this, 
Im satisfied that the account was sold to him on a non-advised basis. This means that 
Nationwide was not required to check if the packaged account, or any of the individual 
benefits it included, were right for Mr H. However, Nationwide was required to present Mr H 
with the important information about the account and associated benefits, so that he could 
decide for himself whether it was right for him.
Nationwide says that its online application process wouldve required Mr H to check: that he 
was eligible for the account and packaged benefits, the monthly cost of the account, the 
main benefits and exclusions of the insurance products, as well as explain Mr Hs 
cancellation rights. And based on what both parties have said and provided, Ive seen 
nothing to suggest this didnt happen. 
I understand that after Mr H had agreed to the account, he was then provided with a 
welcome pack, which he appears to have retained since he opened the account. This 
included the terms and conditions that applied to the packaged benefits  including the travel 
insurance.
Therefore, based on everything I have seen, Im satisfied that Nationwide did what it needed 
to do in terms of providing Mr H with the important information about the travel insurance.
Mr H has said that, as the FlexPlus account was the most expensive account offered by 
Nationwide, he expected the level of cover provided to be very good. But I cant say that 
Nationwide has somehow mis-led Mr H into thinking the cover was better than it was. 
Afterall, its clear that Mr H was provided with information about the cover, both during and 
shortly after the sale. And, as he chose the account himself online - without receiving any 
advice from Nationwide - it was up to him to review the terms, conditions, exclusions and 
limitations on cover, to determine whether it met his needs or not.  
I understand that a bone of contention for Mr H is that the cost of food and drink was not 
covered by the insurer under the medical emergency cover. Mr H has provided a copy of the 
terms and conditions he received when he took out the account. He says that Nationwide 
has changed the terms and conditions in an underhand way, as hed assumed he was 
covered for such costs. However, looking at the excerpt of the terms and conditions Mr H 
has provided, they dont specifically include food and drink under the whats covered 
section. So I cant agree that Nationwide gave Mr H information that specifically said food 
and drink costs would be covered in such circumstances. 
Mr H has also said that his food and drinks costs should be treated as an accommodation 
cost. Hes also said that such costs should be covered by a travel insurance policy. 
However, as outlined above, whether the terms and conditions have been applied correctly 
and reasonably to Mr Hs claim, is the responsibility of the insurer - not Nationwide. So 
whether its reasonable to say that his costs should be covered by any section of the policy, 
is being considered under a separate complaint, against the insurer. So I wont comment 
further on it here. 
Finally, I appreciate that Mr H is unhappy with Nationwides choice of insurer for the FlexPlus 
travel cover. But just because Mr H is unhappy with how the insurer dealt with his claim, 
doesnt mean that Nationwide was wrong, or has acted unreasonably, by choosing to use 
that insurer. Deciding who should underwrite its insurance products is a reasonable exercise 
of Nationwides commercial discretion. And I can see the one it did choose is a large, UK 
based insurer, that is regulated by both the Prudential Regulatory Authority and the Financial 
Conduct Authority. And any requirement to monitor the activities of the insurer is the 
responsibility of the regulators, rather than Nationwide. Therefore taking everything into account, I cant say that Nationwide mis-sold the account or 
acted unreasonably in this matter. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman