DRN-2176228
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the poor service his wife Ms H received from British Gas 
Insurance Limited (BG) when she contacted it to amend a direct debit.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. Mr H says Ms H was on hold to 
BG for 1hour 50 minutes. When she complained, she was told a manager would phone her 
back within 24 hours but she never received a call back. BG has apologised and explained 
that this was due to the high number of calls it receives during the winter period. It offered 
her £30 compensation. Mr H doesnt consider that this is enough.
Our investigator didnt consider that BG should do any more. Mr H has asked that his 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman, so its been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the view given by our investigator and Ill explain why.
Awards of compensation that this service can make arent intended to fine or punish a 
business. This is the job of the businesss regulator. We can award fair compensation that's 
a proportionate reflection of the impact a business's actions (or inaction) has had on their 
customer. 
If we decide a business has acted unfairly, we consider the impact on their customer. For us 
to award compensation, we need to decide that the impact of a business's actions has 
been greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset, more than the inconvenience and 
upset that happens from time to time in our day-to-day lives and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. A busy phone line is just such an example. We're 
unlikely to tell a business to pay compensation in these circumstances unless what the 
business did or failed to do had a significant impact on a particular customer.
BG has acknowledged that its service to Ms H wasnt satisfactory, has apologised, and has 
offered £30 compensation for the inconvenience that Ms H suffered. Ms H says her call to 
BG took up her time, and she felt stressed. Her annoyance and frustration is quite 
understandable, but I dont consider that BGs poor service in the respect complained about 
is likely to have had such a significant or lasting impact upon her as to justify more 
compensation than BG has already offered. I consider that compensation of £30 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
For these reasons, although I understand Ms Hs frustration, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about British Gas Insurance Limited 
and dont require it to do anything more than to pay Mr H the £30 it has already offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman