DRN-2561566
The complaint
Miss Cs unhappy her car insurance premium increased after Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited updated her address.
What happened
Miss C called Admiral when her policy was due for renewal to let them know shed found a 
cheaper quote. She also told Admiral she was due to move addresses on the date the policy 
was set to renew.
Admirals advisor updated Miss Cs address and adjusted her quote based on the new 
details shed provided. The policy premium increased considerably so Miss C confirmed she 
wanted to cancel it.
Miss C later received a call back from Admirals renewal department. She spoke with a 
different advisor who, following a discussion regarding Miss Cs address, changed it back to 
the address Admiral had previously held. This reduced the premium quoted which Miss C 
accepted.
Later, following Miss Cs move to her new address, Admiral updated her details, but this 
caused her premium to increase and they advised her an additional £215.64 was due.    
Miss C said shed advised Admiral of her change of address prior to accepting the quote and 
didnt think the additional amount should be owed.
Miss C complained to Admiral. They said when Miss C spoke to the second advisor there 
was some confusion over the correct postcode for her. But Admiral said their advisor 
explained shed changed Miss Cs address back before providing the new quote and Miss C 
didnt explain her address would be changing on the day the policy was set to start. Admiral 
said they would reduce the additional premium owed by £50 leaving a difference of £165.64 
to be paid. Alternatively, Admiral said if Miss C wished to cancel the policy, shed be able to - 
minus a charge for the period shed been on cover.
Miss C remained unhappy so brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into things, she thought Admiral had acted fairly and in line with the terms of the policy when 
charging the additional premium. She also said Admirals offer to reduce the amount owed by 
£50 was reasonable.
Miss C wasnt satisfied with our investigators opinion and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint, so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its clear when Miss C initially contacted Admiral, she advised them her address was due to 
change as of the date her policy was set to renew. Im also satisfied it was clear to Miss C 
after that call, that once Admiral had updated her details to her new address, the premium 
quoted for them to continue insuring her increased to in excess of £900. I say this because 
she declined the policy after being told the premium, having already found a considerably 
lower quote from another insurer.
The confusion regarding Miss Cs address arose after she tried to call Admiral again later 
that day and another of their advisors called her back. Ive listened to the call and whilst I 
agree it seems strange her address was changed back only a short while after Admiral had 
updated it, Im satisfied it was done so by the advisor acting on information provided by   
Miss C, which was verified by the advisor on three occasions. 
When confirming her identity, Miss C provided Admirals advisor with the postcode she was 
due to move out of, but as Admirals systems had been updated during the previous call, it 
didnt match the information held on their systems. When the advisor told Miss C this, she 
then provided the postcode she was due to move to  which did match the one Admiral held.    
Having initially been given a different postcode to the one held on Admirals system, the 
advisor asked Miss C are we changing your address today? before later repeating so you 
want to change your address today?. On both occasions Miss C confirmed yes. The 
advisor then repeated the address she was updating their system to and asked Miss C is 
that correct?. The address the advisor had provided was Miss Cs original address to which 
Miss C again confirmed yes.
The advisor went on to let Miss C know that due to changing her address, reducing her 
predicted mileage and updating where the car would be parked overnight the premium 
quoted had come down to approximately £650. Whilst its clear there was some confusion as 
to which address the quote should be based on, ultimately, Im satisfied had Miss C been 
clear which address she was moving to, Admiral wouldve never offered her a policy for the 
premium it did.
Miss C accepted the quote and following the phone call, Admiral sent her documents to 
advise her of the changes theyd made. Miss C was sent a letter confirming her address had 
been changed back to the address she was due to move from and that it was this address 
against which the vehicle was being insured. She was also sent a motor policy schedule 
again confirming it was her original address linked to the policy. Both documents were sent 
to Miss C prior to her policy start date.
Furthermore, in both documents Admiral clearly asked Miss C to check the details carefully 
and if anything was incorrect, to contact them. Had she done this Miss C wouldve had the 
option to either accept the correct quote or look for alternative insurance elsewhere prior to 
paying a premium to Admiral. 
Once it did come to light that Admiral held the incorrect address for Miss C it needed to be 
updated, her policy wouldnt have been valid had it not been. This meant Admiral had to 
recalculate the policy premium and that Miss C needed to pay an additional amount should 
she want to continue to be covered with them. The terms of her policy allow them to do this. 
They say, If you make changes to your policy, you may have to pay an additional 
premium. Whilst I can understand this mustve been frustrating for Miss C, the policy she 
took out was based on an incorrect address and having provided a substantially higher 
quote previously based on the correct address, Im satisfied Admiral acted fairly when 
applying their terms for a policy they clearly considered a greater risk.
As a gesture of goodwill Admiral offered to reduce the difference in premiums by £50. They 
werent obliged to do this, but I think during the second phone call there was clearly 
confusion on Admirals part as well as from Miss C, so I think theyve acted reasonably by 
doing so and Im satisfied it fairly reflects whats happened in the circumstances of this 
complaint. But as Ive previously said Im satisfied the policy Miss C needed was never 
available from Admiral for the premium she paid, so I dont think they need it.
Miss C was given the option to pay the additional premium or, if she no longer wanted to 
continue being covered, she could cancel the policy and only pay for the time shed been on cover. Ultimately, whilst I accept there has clearly been some confusion, Im satisfied this is 
fair and reasonable resolution in the circumstances of this case and I dont think Admiral 
need to do anything more.
My final decision
My financial decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman