DRN-2866558
The complaint
Mr I complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund a number of payments made from 
his account that he says he didnt make, and about the service hes received when trying to 
get payments refunded.
What happened
When checking the statements for his account towards the end of 2019, Mr I noticed a 
number of transactions which he says he didnt make. The transactions took place between 
December 2018 and September 2019 and included a number of cash withdrawals at various 
locations and card payments to several different companies.
Mr I contacted Barclays but was given contradictory information about how to report the 
transactions. He was initially told he needed to highlight the transactions on paper 
statements and send them in, then told he could highlight the transactions on an excel 
spreadsheet and email this in and then told he would need to report the transaction in 
branch. As Mr I was abroad for most of 2019, this led to a delay before he could visit a UK 
branch. And when he did visit a branch, he was told they couldnt deal with the fraud and so 
hed need to send in the transactions on a spreadsheet again.
During this time, further transactions took place on the account which Mr I says he didnt 
make. And he was also contacted directly by the company some of the card payments went 
to, demanding payment and threatening legal action. After reporting these further 
transactions, Mr I says Barclays failed to respond to his emails, failed to take into account 
forms he returned to it and incorrectly closed his fraud claim.
Barclays investigated Mr Is complaint and ultimately refunded the initial card payments and 
the further transactions, but didnt agree to refund the cash withdrawals. Barclays also 
apologised for the level of service Mr I had received and paid him a total of £650 
compensation. Mr I wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so referred his complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and felt Barclays had acted reasonably in 
refunding the card payments and further transactions, but not the cash withdrawals. So they 
didnt ask Barclays to refund any further transactions. They also felt Barclays should pay an 
additional £100 compensation for the poor service it had provided. Mr I didnt agree with the 
amount of compensation, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr I made a number of detailed submissions and Ive not responded individually to every 
point he and Barclays have made. But I have considered everything they both sent us and 
have focused my decision on the issues I think are key to the outcome of the complaint.
Barclays has already agreed to refund the card payments and further transactions Mr I says 
he didnt make, so Ive not considered these here. Mr I also said he accepted what our 
investigator said about the cash withdrawals not being refunded, and so Ive also not 
considered these further. So the remaining issue I need to consider is whether the amount 
Barclays has offered is fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
Mr I suffered as a result of its poor service.
Ive reviewed everything Mr I and Barclays have said, read copies of the correspondence 
between them, checked Barclays records of its contact with Mr I and listened to recordings 
of calls between Mr I and a number of Barclays fraud staff.
From what Ive seen, it appears Barclays did give Mr I contradictory information about how to 
report the transactions he says he didnt make and generally provided a poor level of 
customer service to him throughout its investigation. And I think being told different things, 
not being responded to, having to explain the situation to numerous different people, making 
numerous phone calls and branch visits, and the delays to the investigation of the 
transactions as a result wouldve caused Mr I significant inconvenience and frustration.
These delays also meant the further transactions came out of Mr Is account, when its 
possible they could have been prevented, and that Mr I had further contact from one of the 
companies the payments went to and spent longer not knowing whether his account and 
personal details were secure. And I think this will have caused Mr I significant distress.
Mr I also said the delays and Barclays incorrect closing of his fraud claim affected his 
finances and meant he had to hold off on essential purchases and alter his travel plans.
So I think its clear Mr I has suffered a significant amount of distress and inconvenience as a 
result of Barclays poor service. But, taking into account everything thats happened and the 
impact its had on Mr I, I think the £650 Barclays offered, plus the extra £100 our investigator 
recommended, is fair and reasonable compensation for this. I think this amount appropriately 
compensates Mr I for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused and is in line with 
the range of awards our service makes for this kind of distress and inconvenience.
I appreciate how strongly Mr I feels about this case, but I dont think it would be fair to 
require Barclays to pay a higher amount of compensation than this.
So I think Barclays should have to pay Mr I a total of £750 compensation.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr I a total of £750 compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman