DRN-1963998
The complaint
Mr E complains that GE Money Home Lending Limited didnt return the deeds and other 
documents relating to his property at the end of his mortgage term.
What happened
In 2008, Mr E took out a mortgage with GE Money. As part of the process, he gave his 
solicitor the original deeds to his property, along with various other documents, including 
records of earlier ownerships as well as warranties and permissions. His solicitors passed 
the documents to GE Moneys solicitors. 
Mr E wrote to GE Moneys solicitors asking for the documents to be returned to him. The 
solicitors said they couldnt return them until the end of the mortgage term, on GE Moneys 
instructions. But Mr E could have a copy of them, on payment of the fee. Mr E wrote back to 
say he was unwilling to pay a fee and so entrusted the documents to the solicitors to be 
returned to him at the end of the term.
In the meantime, Mr Es loan  along with others  was sold on from GE Money to another 
lender Ill call K. The term has now expired and Mr E wrote to K asking for the documents 
back. K said it didnt have them. Mr E also wrote to the solicitors, who didnt respond. One of 
our investigators looked at a complaint about K and concluded that it had never received the 
documents from either GE Money or its solicitors. 
This complaint is therefore about GE Money. Mr E wants his documents returned, or wants 
to be indemnified against future losses should they be needed when he sells his property, 
and wants to be compensated for his anguish. 
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
I think its clear GE Moneys solicitors received Mr Es documents at the time the 
mortgage was taken out. They wrote to Mr E confirming as much. And their letter 
makes it clear they were acting for GE Money, and holding the documents on GEs 
instructions. The solicitors were to store them until the end of the term. The 
investigator who dealt with the complaint about K found that K had never received 
them  so the documents are most likely either still in the solicitors storage facility, or 
have been lost.
Mr E has written to the solicitors and not received a response. But the solicitors were 
acting on behalf of GE Money, and as GEs agents. The documents were held to GEs 
order. 
I think that GE should now make enquiries of its solicitors, and ask them to check their 
records to see whether they still hold the documents. If they do, the documents should 
be returned to Mr E. And if they do not, GE should ask the solicitors for an explanation 
of what happened to them.I would therefore like GE Money to make those enquiries of its solicitors now, and 
when it responds to this provisional decision it should tell me the outcome of those 
enquiries. 
I can understand why Mr E is upset that they have gone missing. They contain 
historical information about his property and the local area, and so have sentimental 
importance. I dont have any evidence at present to suggest that they have any 
intrinsic value, so I dont think Mr E has suffered any financial loss  though if he is 
able to provide evidence that the documents do have a material value, Ill consider it 
before I make my final decision. 
I dont think either that its likely Mr E will find it difficult to sell the property in future. 
The property is registered land, so dealt with electronically and the paper deeds are no 
longer required.
For those reasons, subject to any further evidence Mr E may provide, I dont think he 
has suffered any financial loss, or will suffer any if the deeds cant be found. But hes 
clearly been upset, and put to some inconvenience, by the failure to return them to 
him. I think GE Money should pay him £150 compensation in recognition of that. 
Mr E accepted what Id said. But he said that he did think the deeds had some intrinsic 
value, albeit small, and he sent examples of where historic deeds had sold online to 
collectors for around £50.
GE explained that the solicitors it used at the time were no longer trading so couldnt be 
contacted or asked to check their archives. It had thoroughly searched its own storage 
facility and was unable to locate them. And they werent among the documents passed to 
the new lender. It couldnt explain where they were or what might have happened to them. It 
agreed to pay £150 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr E is disappointed, and wants the deeds to be found. He entrusted them 
to GE and its solicitors. While theyre no longer necessary for him to be able to sell the 
property, they are of value to him and he wants them back. Thats understandable.
Unfortunately, at some point in the intervening years theyve disappeared. I accept that GE 
has done its best to find them, and doesnt have them  and nor does the new lender. The 
most likely explanation is that they were still with the solicitors when they ceased trading, but 
that cant be checked now. It seems the deeds are definitively lost.
Mr E did entrust them to the solicitors, at GEs request. I think GE is responsible for them 
and for their safekeeping  and for their loss. I note what Mr E says about the possibility that 
they did have a small intrinsic value for their historic interest. Thats possible, but not 
something I can be sure of  and any value they did have would be small.
Putting things right
Im satisfied my proposed award is enough to compensate Mr E both for the inconvenience 
and for the possibility of a small financial loss.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct GE 
Money Home Lending Limited to pay Mr E £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman