DRN-3360238
The complaint
Miss P complains that Revolut Ltd blocked and closed her account. And then returned funds 
in the account to their original sources, rather than to her.
What happened
In October 2020, Revolut carried out a review of Miss Ps account.
 
Revolut completed its review and returned the money that had been paid into Miss Ps 
account to the original senders of the money, rather than releasing it to her. Revolut also 
decided to close Miss Ps account. 
Miss P complained but Revolut maintained its position, so she brought her complaint to our 
service. Before it was investigated Revolut offered Miss P £20 for the inconvenience the 
review had caused, which was declined.
 
One of our investigators then reviewed the complaint but didnt think Revolut had been 
unfair to Miss P. They explained Revolut had certain legal and regulatory requirements they 
had to follow, which can lead to accounts being restricted and closed. They also agreed that 
Revoluts terms and conditions allowed them to close the account in the manner they did 
and return money to source.
Miss P disagreed. She says shes out of pocket and wants the balance of her account 
returned to her.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Revolut has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations are 
ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened. They can broadly be 
summarised as a responsibility to protect persons from financial harm, and to prevent and 
detect financial crime. To comply with its obligations Revolut may need to review an account 
and/or restrict its customers access to accounts and funds held within them.  
Having looked at all the evidence, including how Miss P was operating her account, Im 
satisfied that Revolut acted in accordance with these obligations when it blocked and 
reviewed Miss Ps account. It was entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions. 
It also wasnt obliged to tell Miss P why it was carrying out a review, as much as shed like to 
know. And I dont believe it would be appropriate for me to require it to do so. 
Revolut was also within its rights to close Miss Ps account and did so line with the account 
terms and relevant regulations. So, I cant say Revolut have done anything wrong or treated 
Miss P unfairly when it closed her account. 
The crux of Miss Ps complaint is that shes unhappy Revolut returned money paid into her 
account to source  in other words it sent the money back to where it came from. I can see 
from looking at Miss Ps statements that Revolut sent the balance of Miss Ps account back 
to the cards Miss P used to top up her account. Having looked at the information Revolut 
relied on to do this, I agree that this was the right action in the circumstances. So, I wont be 
asking Revolut to return the money to Miss P. 
In summary, based on the full circumstances of this complaint, and the evidence Ive 
received from both parties, Im satisfied Revoluts actions are fair. So, it follows that I wont 
be asking Revolut to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman