DRN-2316908
The complaint
Ms W complains about the way BUPA Insurance Limited has administered her private 
medical insurance policy as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Ms Ws represented by Ms B.
What happened
Ms W has held private medical insurance with BUPA for many years. In August 2019, Ms 
Ws policy renewed at a price of £3428.11 for the policy year.  Her policy included cover for 
pre-existing medical conditions and was intended to provide her with authorised access to 
private medical treatment while the policy was live.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. 
Subsequently, on 16 March 2020, the UK government advised citizens to stop all non-
essential travel and social contact. And on 23 March 2020, national lockdown was imposed 
by the UK government. Due to the large numbers of patients suffering from Covid-19, private 
medical facilities and consultants were diverted to provide support to NHS. BUPA let Ms W 
know that benefits under her policy would be limited for a temporary period while private 
facilities assisted the NHS, as non-urgent treatments werent being prioritised.
Ms B contacted BUPA to ask whether Ms W could receive a refund of her premium or if her 
policy year could be extended. However, BUPA said this wasnt possible under the terms of 
the contract. However, it also told her that it was committed to passing back any exceptional 
financial benefit to its members  which could be through a rebate, or other means. And it 
said that once things returned to normal, it would commission an independent review to work 
out the fairest way to do this. It also said that Ms W could cancel her policy and take out a 
new one  but that her pre-existing medical conditions would be excluded from cover. 
Ms W was unhappy with how BUPA had administered her policy, so Ms B asked us to look 
into her complaint. She felt Ms W was paying a large amount of money for no insurance.
Our investigator didnt think Ms Ws complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the policy 
terms and conditions allowed Ms W to suspend her policy, or for a partial premium refund. 
He noted that BUPA had agreed to suspend premiums for some of its policyholders who 
were in financial difficulties, but that Ms W didnt appear to be eligible for this suspension. 
While he appreciated that Ms W felt the policy hadnt provided the cover shed expected it to, 
he thought she did have access to some benefits under the policy. And BUPA had also 
introduced some remote services. He was persuaded that it was fair for BUPA to review the 
overall impact of Covid-19 and commission a review with a view to passing back any 
exceptional financial benefit. Overall, he felt BUPA had treated Ms W fairly.
Ms B disagreed. She said Ms W hadnt received any cover whether for urgent or non-urgent 
treatment  shed been referred back to the NHS. She found it frustrating that some 
policyholders had been entitled to suspend policy payments due to financial hardship. She 
also explained that Ms W was now virtually bed-bound due to a number of medical issues, 
which she said she wouldve sought private specialist advice for had it been available. She 
felt that Ms W had needed to seek private medical support and hadnt been able to. She felt 
it was now too late to get medical help and that Ms Ws condition had deteriorated. Ms B felt 
that Ms Ws ill-health was down to BUPA abandoning her.
The complaints been passed to me to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Ms W, I think BUPA has treated her fairly. Ill 
explain why.
When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Ms Ws complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of Ms Ws contract with 
BUPA as well as other relevant considerations such as the law and industry guidance. 
The terms and conditions of Ms Ws policy say her plan is for one year and that premiums 
must be paid for BUPA to provide cover during that year. Insurance policies are intended to 
cover the risk of an uncertain event happening over the duration of the contract. An insurer is 
entitled to retain the benefit of the premium paid to cover the risk during that time, even if no 
successful claim has been made under the policy. BUPA provided cover under Ms Ws 
private medical insurance policy from August 2019 to August 2020. It isnt clear whether Ms 
W did make any successful claims during that time, but BUPA is entitled to retain the 
premium it charged to cover the risk of Ms W making a claim during the policy year. 
And the terms of Ms Ws plan set out her cancellation rights under the contract. These say 
that if she cancelled her policy within 21 days of either receiving the policy documents, or the 
cover start date, shed be entitled to a full refund of her premiums (unless any claims had 
been made). If Ms W chose to cancel her policy at any point after 21 days, BUPA would 
refund the premiums shed paid after the date the cover ended. Theres no term in the 
contract which allows Ms W to suspend the payment of premiums or to extend the policy 
term. So I think it was fair for BUPA to tell Ms B that neither of these options were available 
to Ms W. I also think it was fair for BUPA to decide to offer payment breaks for eligible 
policyholders who were in financial hardship  but Ms B didnt suggest to BUPA that this was 
the reason Ms W wanted the policy to be paused. And so BUPA didnt consider Ms W was 
eligible for a payment holiday. BUPA is entitled to decide in what circumstances it is 
prepared to use its discretion to offer payment breaks and Im satisfied Ms W hasnt been 
treated any differently to any other policyholder who was in the same situation as she was.
Ive considered what Ms Bs told us about Ms Ws health during the four-month period 
between March 2020 and the end date of the policy. Im sorry to hear that shes been unwell 
and that Ms B felt unable to access the care she believes Ms W needed. I dont doubt how 
upsetting and worrying this situation mustve been. 
But while Ive considered what Ms Bs said about a private doctor telling her that Ms W 
needed private medical care, I havent seen enough evidence to show me that Ms B 
contacted BUPA to try and make a claim, or get any necessary treatment authorised. It 
wouldnt be reasonable for me to find that BUPA hadnt appropriately responded to a claim 
when it doesnt seem Ms B made one on Ms Ws behalf during this period based on the 
evidence Ive been provided with. So I dont think its accurate to say Ms Ws policy was 
unusable. Depending on the type of medical treatment or services Ms W required, BUPA 
couldve pre-authorised treatment to be carried out at a later date. Ms W had access to, 
amongst other things, BUPAs remote services, mental health support and video consultations. Ms W would also have been eligible to claim enhanced benefits if shed been 
hospitalised with Covid-19 during that time. 
I wouldnt ordinarily expect an insurer to refund premiums if medical treatment or medical 
services were unavailable due to circumstances outside of its control because of, for 
example, the lack of availability of certain medical professionals. BUPA doesnt own or 
operate the vast majority of the private facilities its members use and the requisitioning of 
insurer-approved private facilities for use by the NHS was something which was outside of 
BUPAs control.
Overall, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances of this case to 
require BUPA to refund any premiums to Ms W. BUPA initially told Ms W that a third-party 
independent review would take place to see if thered been any exceptional financial benefit 
to it as a result of Covid-19, once itd had the chance to assess the impact of Covid-19 on 
claims. If so, then it committed to passing back any difference to its members by way of a 
refund or other appropriate method. I dont think this was an unfair position for BUPA to take. 
I say that because it agreed to pass on any unusual financial benefits to its members to 
recognise the impact Covid-19 had had on their ability to use their policies as usual.
BUPAs website suggests that this review has now taken place and that eligible 
policyholders will receive a rebate between April and the end of July this year. I should say 
that theres no guarantee that Ms W will be entitled to any refund in 2021 this is for BUPA 
to calculate. If Ms W is unhappy with the way her rebate is calculated, she may be able to 
bring a new complaint to us about that issue.  Im sorry to disappoint Ms W but I wont be 
asking BUPA to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman