DRN-4070240
The complaint
Mr W and X complain about the service they received from Lloyds Bank PLC when trying to 
switch their interest rate on their mortgage.
They wanted to switch their rate from a staff concessionary rate to a publicly available rate 
but feel Lloyds imposed unfair processes and barriers  causing an unnecessary delay that 
led them to missing out on a lower rate of interest. 
They want Lloyds to honour and backdate this interest rate to their mortgage account and 
pay them compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
What happened
Mr W and X have a mortgage with Lloyds. Their mortgage consists of two sub-accounts. 
One part is on a retail fixed interest rate of 2.76% until 30 November 2030, the other is on a 
concessionary tracker interest rate  available through the Lloyds banking group colleague 
concessionary scheme. 
Mr W and X became concerned about rising interest rates, so they explored the option of 
switching part of their mortgage from a tracker to a fixed rate. The product they wanted was 
a retail 10-year fixed rate of 3.18%.
On 26 September 2022 Mr W called Lloyds to make the switch. Mr W was told hed need to 
speak to a mortgage advisor specifically trained to discuss staff mortgages. An appointment 
with a suitable advisor was made for 3 October 2022. However, by that time the interest rate 
product Mr W and X wanted had been withdrawn and replaced with a less favourable deal of 
4.23%. 
Mr W and X complained to Lloyds. They were unhappy that Lloyds processes stopped them 
from getting the product they wanted. They dont agree that it was necessary to speak to a 
specialist mortgage advisor when switching away from a concessionary rate. A regular 
mortgage advisor should have been able to assist them and/or they should have been able 
to use an execution only process like other customers.
Lloyds apologised for any delays experienced. It said that due to significant changes in the 
mortgage market, it was experiencing high levels of demand  impacting the service it 
provides. Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. It said the correct process had been followed.  
All staff who apply for new mortgage rates must take advice to take account of benefits in 
kind and any tax implications. It said the same applies even if switching from a staff 
mortgage to a public rate. 
Mr W and X remained unhappy and brought their complaint to our service. Our Investigator 
didnt recommend that their complaint be upheld. He found that Mr W and X had 
experienced delay and frustration, but he concluded that was due to sudden high demand 
arising from the wider economic situation rather than anything Lloyds had done wrong. He 
also found that Lloyds had acted in accordance with its process by expecting advice to be 
given by a suitably trained mortgage advisor before any changes could be made to a staff 
mortgage.
Mr W and X didnt accept that conclusion. They still felt theyd been treated unfairly and
that Lloyds processes were to blame, so they asked for an Ombudsman to make a final 
decision on their case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive given careful consideration to all the submissions made by both parties, but I wont
address each and every point that has been raised. Ill focus on the matters that I consider
most relevant to how Ive reached a fair outcome  in keeping with the informal nature of our
service.
Having done all that, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I realise this will be
disappointing for Mr W and X. But I hope the reasons I have set out below will help them to
understand why I have come to this conclusion.
Lloyds operates a scheme under which eligible staff can benefit from preferential mortgage 
products. Ive carefully considered everything, including what Lloyds policy says about how 
the scheme operates, and whether Mr W and X were treated fairly in accordance with the 
policy terms.
Mr W and Xs mortgage consisted, in part, of a concessionary mortgage. This provides them 
with a lower rate than is available to the general public. However, this is classed by 
HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) as a benefit in kind. Having a benefit in kind affects the 
tax paid. Lloyds says the tax implications are the reason it requires staff to apply for these 
products by phone. This is so that a suitably trained mortgage advisor can go through the 
advice process, to help them to decide whether the benefit of a lower mortgage interest rate 
outweighs the impact on the tax they pay.
Mr W and X dont dispute this. They accept its necessary to speak to a specialist mortgage 
advisor when signing up to the scheme due to the tax implications involved. Their point is 
that they say they didnt want or need advice. They say that the said tax implications dont 
apply when switching away from the concessionary rate to a public rate and so it was not 
necessary to speak to a specialist mortgage advisor in their circumstances. Ive thought 
carefully about this and whether it was reasonable for Lloyds to refer Mr W and X to a 
specialist mortgage advisor in the circumstances. 
Amongst other things, the policy makes reference to a particular process that the mortgage 
advisor must follow and a specific application screen they must complete  not only when 
signing up a colleague to the scheme but also when making any changes to a mortgage that 
involves a staff concessionary rate  including moving away from such a rate onto a public 
rate. Whilst I cant say for certain, it is quite possible that only specifically trained mortgage 
advisors have access to the relevant systems. 
However, what I consider to be of more importance here is how the advice sales process 
applies in these circumstances.
Lloyds says that its policy is that all staff on the concessionary rate  or looking to go onto 
the rate, need to go through a specialist mortgage advisor. The advisor is trained to explain how the new rate would affect the tax and if coming off the colleague rate was a suitable 
option. 
Lloyds has explained that to make sure its providing staff with the right advice, the specialist 
mortgage advisors can only recommend a product once the applicants individual needs and 
circumstances have been considered alongside the full range of available rates. 
When considering everything, I think Lloyds explanation about why it required Mr W and X 
to apply by phone is reasonable. Im persuaded that it wouldnt be possible for a regular 
mortgage advisor to provide adequate advice on the basis that they arent trained to discuss 
the concessionary scheme - so proceeding in this way means customers would be deprived 
of a full service  with advice only given on part of the available range. And  to fully explore 
the range of products available (including those from the concessionary range) the advisor 
would need to give the necessary tax advice  which I agree does require specialist 
knowledge. 
I appreciate Mr W and X say that they were comfortable with the choice they were making, 
so in this case they should have been able to proceed on an execution only basis or at the 
very least without speaking to a specialist mortgage advisor. But, for the reasons Ive 
explained, Im satisfied Lloyds applied its policy fairly. Lloyds policy says all staff accounts 
are manged on the phone, so all those with staff concessionary rates are directed to call to 
make changes to their accounts. Lloyds applied its policy accordingly  this requirement was 
the same for all other borrowers with staff mortgages and I cant reasonably say that it 
should have treated Mr W and X any differently.
Ive asked Lloyds for clarity on its dedicated staff page - the Colleague concessionary 
product hub. Our investigator suggested that staff can now apply online using the updated 
system. Lloyds has confirmed this is not the case. The page, which was in place at the time 
Mr W and X made their enquiries, was designed to give staff access to online information 
and calculators. It also provides an online booking system to speak to a dedicated advisor, 
instead of having to call the public phone line to make such an appointment. Lloyds has 
explained that nothing has changed in terms of the application process itself  which 
remains as an advised service over the phone with a dedicated mortgage advisor. As such I 
dont agree that Mr W and X have missed out on a new service that they say undermines 
Lloyds position on its policy.
I appreciate Mr W and X complain about long wait times. I can understand their frustration. I 
must, however, also bear in mind all the circumstances. I accept Lloyds explanation about 
why customers were having to wait so long to get through to an advisor in late 
September 2022. The wider economic situation was changing fast, and mortgage lenders 
were responding to that by changing their product offerings very quickly. As a result, many 
more mortgage borrowers than expected were trying to secure new mortgage products 
before they were withdrawn.
Its unfortunate that Mr W and X didnt get the rate they wanted. But there was never any
guarantee about that. Products change all the time and, as Ive already said, the market was
moving fast at the time in question. Mr W and X were ultimately offered a new fixed rate 
within a week or so of Mr Ws first call.
In all the circumstances, and bearing in mind the economic backdrop at the relevant time, I
find I cant fairly require Lloyds to apply the rate Mr W and X originally wanted to their
mortgage, and I make no order or award on the basis that Im not satisfied Lloyds got things 
wrong here.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and X to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman