DRN-1829477
The complaint
Mrs W says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs W took out an PPI policy with a hire-purchase agreement in 1997. She paid a monthly 
amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint for the following reasons.
The credit agreement was marked with a cross to indicate Mrs W wanted PPI. From what we 
know about how these policies were sold, I think the cross would most likely have come 
about following a conversation about the PPI. And Mrs W wouldve had the opportunity to 
check the agreement before signing it  to check that it reflected what had been agreed. So, 
I think AXA made Mrs W aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs W so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
I think AXA couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even if it had, I 
think Mrs W would still have bought it. 
Its possible AXA didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mrs W doesnt 
appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
The regulators rules on high levels of undisclosed commission and profit share only apply to 
lenders. Since this complaint is against the insurer of the policy, they dont apply. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Ws comments. But these points dont change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman