DRN-4068794
The complaint
Mrs D complains that MBNA Limited lent to her irresponsibly when it gave her a credit card.
What happened
Mrs D took out a credit card with MBNA in February 2019. It had a credit limit of £4,700 
which was never increased.
Mrs D says that MBNA lent to her irresponsibly. She says the limit she was given was too 
high and it means she had only been able to make the minimum repayments. Mrs D asked 
MBNA to pay back the interest she had been charged on the account.
Our adjudicator thought Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. Our adjudicator thought that 
Mrs D was over-indebted elsewhere and MBNA shouldnt have lent to her.
MBNA disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I came to a different decision to that of our adjudicator. I issued my provisional decision on 
28 March 2023 and invited comments from both parties by 11 April 2023. I asked Mrs D to 
provide legible copies of her joint account bank statements and individual account 
statements along with a full copy of her credit file which detailed her payment history towards 
other credit commitments before she took out this credit card.
MBNA agreed with my provisional decision. Mrs D disagreed. She made further points which 
I have addressed below but she didnt provide the documentary evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mrs Ds complaint.
MBNA had to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs D could 
afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such has how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and Mrs Ds income and expenditure.
Certain factors might point to the fact that MBNA should fairly and reasonable have done 
more to establish that  for example, if the results of the initial checks showed areas of
concern. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
MBNA has said that it completed credit checks before it lent to Mrs D which provided no 
reason for concern. Mrs D told MBNA that she had an income of £23,500 a year. Credit 
checks showed that Mrs D had a revolving debt (for example credit cards and shopping 
accounts) of around £7,000 and non-revolving debt (for example, loans or hire purchase) of 
around £6,000. She had no County Court Judgments (CCJs) or accounts which had 
defaulted or were in arrears. Her credit scoring showed a good credit rating. Mrs D was 
using a low proportion of her total available revolving credit.
MBNA didnt have any information about Mrs Ds outgoings and committed expenditure, and 
as the credit limit and existing borrowing were reasonably high I think it would have been 
proportionate for MBNA to have got a better understanding of Mrs Ds financial 
circumstances before it lent to her.
Our adjudicator thought that MBNA ought to have requested copies of Mrs Ds bank 
statements. I think that may have been disproportionate. I think it would have been 
reasonable for MBNA to have just asked Mrs D about her outgoings and committed 
expenditure each month. But this makes no difference to the outcome of Mrs Ds complaint.
I cant know for sure what Mrs D would have told MBNA about her financial circumstances. 
But in the absence of this information, I think its reasonable to consider the information 
which Mrs D was able to provide in the form of her bank statements.
Our adjudicator reviewed those bank statements and noted that Mrs D had a monthly net 
income of around £1,579. They also calculated that Mrs Ds committed expenditure was 
around £2,232. This included payments for items such as house payments, utilities, phone 
bills, council tax, food, travel, credit cards, hire purchase agreement and insurance. On this 
basis our adjudicator concluded that Mrs D didnt have any disposable income to sustainably 
afford the additional borrowing.
But the bank statements were from a joint account. The second party to the joint account 
also paid income into the account. Mrs D says this was £1,211.41 a month. I havent been 
able to verify this because I have found the bank statements to be largely illegible. When I 
issued my provisional decision I said it would be helpful if Mrs D wished to dispute my 
provisional findings that she provides new copies of these statements in a .pdf format, but I 
didnt receive these. Mrs D also told our adjudicator that she was responsible for paying all 
shopping, gas, electricity, house and pet insurances. I can see from the bank statements 
that Mrs D transferred money between the joint account and another account in her name, 
although I havent seen statements from that other account. The bank account was generally 
always in credit, as far as I can tell.
The expenses Mrs D says she was responsible for seem to have been paid out of the joint 
account. The joint account was funded by both Mrs Ds income and the joint account 
holders income. This totalled around £2,800. And if our adjudicators calculation about 
committed expenditure is right (and Mrs D has not disputed this), this left disposable income 
of around £500 a month. I think this would have been sufficient to meet the repayments on 
the new account, even if Mrs D used the whole credit facility. As it is, it seems that it was Mrs 
Ds intention to use the card only for 0% interest balance transfers, which she completed as 
soon as the account was opened which means her minimum payments towards her overall 
borrowing would have decreased if she was paying interest on balances elsewhere. Indeed, 
MBNA explains Mrs D did not use the card for retail purchases until 2022, some three years 
later.
As Mrs D had joined her finances with a third party, I think its reasonable to consider their 
finances together. It seems that their joint household expenses were paid from the same 
account that both salaries were paid into and that neither person was individually 
responsible for specific bills. Mrs D disagrees, because she says the bills came through in her name and she was responsible for paying them. But they were paid from their joint 
account which was funded entirely by both Mrs D and her partners incomes, and I am 
satisfied that both parties contributed towards essential expenditure. This means I dont 
accept that Mrs D funded the joint essential expenditure entirely from her own resources. 
I asked for a copy of Mrs Ds credit file because I thought it may help me better understand 
whether there was any information which had been missed about her finances in the credit 
checks MBNA completed. Mrs D was only able to provide a basic credit file which showed 
what her outstanding borrowing was in January 2023. It didnt show what her position was 
like in February 2019 when she took the credit card. Mrs D didnt provide a full credit file 
after I issued my provisional decision, either.
So, on the information I have available to me at this point, I dont think MBNA did anything 
wrong when it lent to Mrs D because even if it had completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks I dont think it would have acted differently and not lent to Mrs D. I dont think Mrs D 
lost out as a result of anything MBNA might have done wrong. This means that I wont be 
awarding any compensation to Mrs D.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs Ds complaint and MBNA Limited doesnt have to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman