DRN-1542457
 
The complaint
Mr E, as the representative of the estate of Mrs E, complains about the requirements 
imposed by Barclays Asset Management Limited ("BAM") in respect of obtaining a grant of 
probate (GoP).
What happened
Mr E's mother, Mrs E, sadly passed away in June 2019. As executor of her estate 
he contacted BAM, one of the businesses with which Mrs E had held investments. It 
explained its requirements to release the funds, although there followed some confusion 
about whether a small estates form would be sufficient. Mr E proceeded to obtain the GoP, 
which was provided to BAM in late August 2019 and the investment was sold. 
Mr E was nevertheless very unhappy that he'd been required to obtain the GoP. He felt it 
had been unnecessary and that the small estates process would have been suitable and that 
BAM should've supplied the form earlier in the process, so the investment could've been 
sold sooner, before its value decreased. Mr E felt that by imposing the requirement upon him 
BAM had unreasonably withheld access to the money. 
Mr E made a complaint, but BAM didn't uphold it. BAM felt that it had set out its 
requirements clearly to Mr E and had provided him with the small estates form at the point 
that he had indicated that it would be a suitable means of administering the process. 
The matter was referred to this service, but our investigator also didn't feel the complaint 
should be upheld. She said, in brief:
BAM's initial letter of Mr E of 11 July 2019 had reasonably set out its requirements 
and explained that either a GoP or small estates form would be required.
While a small estates form could have been included at that point, it was reasonable 
to wait until it had clarification from Mr E that a small estates form could be used. 
Even if the small estates form had been received earlier, with the 11 July 2019 letter, 
it was unlikely that Mr E would've used it as by that point GoP had already been 
applied for in respect of other investments in the estate.
 
Mr E didn't accept the investigator's view. He reiterated his concerns about the unfairness of 
different businesses having different thresholds for when a GoP was required, particularly as 
obtaining probate wasn't a legal requirement. He also raised concerns relating to identity 
requirements being different for different parts of the business, as documents supplied to 
facilitate the release of funds from Mrs E's bank account hadn't been accepted by BAM. He 
felt BAM could've taken other steps to confirm him as executor. Further, he disagreed that 
he wouldn't have acted differently if he'd been made aware sooner of the small estates 
process.
The investigator wasn't persuaded to change her view. She said:It was reasonable that different parts of a business might have different processes 
and requirements.
It was reasonable for BAM to have set its own threshold for GoP requirements.
It was unlikely that given the nature ands size of Mrs E's estate this would've been a 
situation where a GoP wasn't required.
BAM couldn't have confirmed Mr E as executor by speaking to the beneficiaries, it 
would've always required some sort of formal documentation, most likely a GoP. 
 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter's been referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Its clear that Mr E has strong feelings about BAM's actions. Hes provided detailed 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered in their entirety. 
However, I trust that he wont take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be 
the central issues, and that theyre expressed in less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of 
my decision is not to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. 
That said, I do understand Mr E's frustration and appreciate that this will have been a very 
difficult time for him. Administration of an estate, especially that of a loved one, is a stressful 
and complex process, even when, on the face of it, the estate appears to be a relatively 
straightforward one. 
One of the many issues that creates this complexity is the fact that different financial 
institutions have different processes and requirements. As Mr E has found through his own 
research, the threshold requirement for obtaining a GoP varies a lot from one business to 
another. But it's nevertheless the case that none of them are wrong, as there are no 
prescribed requirements or regulations. Each business is entitled to design its process and 
requirements as it sees fit, in line with the nature of its business and its experience of 
handling this type of situation. 
In respect of the issue of the potential use of the small estates form, I think BAM's initial 
letter of 11 July 2019 that explained its requirements and that there were two possible 
processes, depending upon circumstances - the GoP and the small estates form - was 
reasonable. I wouldn't have expected BAM to include the small estates form at that point. It 
made clear that Mr E could contact it to ask for one if appropriate. And it did send one to him 
after his further letter of 22 July 2019. 
As to whether Mr E would've used the small estates form if it had been sent to him sooner, 
while I note his comments, I think on balance its more likely than not that he would have 
used the GoP process instead, as by 11 July 2019 he was aware that the other financial 
business he was dealing with would require a GoP - as that investment was higher in value 
than the BAM investment. 
In respect of the investment devaluing while Mr E obtained the GoP this is, or course, 
unfortunate. But I don't think it was unreasonable of BAM to wait until receipt of the 
GoP before selling. It's normal industry practice to do so and is based upon the general 
rationale for requiring a GoP in the first place - to ensure that the person issuing the 
instruction is legally entitled to instruct the sale. My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E, as 
representative of the estate of Mrs E, to accept or reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman