DRN-4110915
The complaint
Ms F complains about delays by UK Insurance Limited, trading as Churchill, in dealing with a 
claim she made on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2022 Ms F was involved in an accident in which her car was damaged. She 
told Churchill about the accident straight away. Churchill told her that it was likely that the car 
would be considered a write-off, but it would need an engineer to confirm this. An engineer 
finally inspected the car nearly six weeks after the accident and concluded that it was a 
write-off. 
Ms F acknowledges that her policy provides for a courtesy car while any repairs are carried 
out to the car after an accident, but not if the car is written off. But she says the question of 
whether the car was written off depended on the engineers inspection, which took far longer 
than it should have done to organise. Meanwhile, she couldnt source a new car, as she 
didnt know whether Churchill were going to repair her car or give her a cash settlement. 
Ms F says she spent several hours in total on the phone to Churchill about her claim, and 
was passed between departments, kept on hold and repeatedly given incorrect contact 
details. She says she was left not knowing what the outcome of her claim would be, and with 
no idea when she could expect to hear. Shes told us that the whole situation caused her 
significant stress and anxiety, and that she was unable to carry out some of her work duties 
because she didnt have a car.
Churchill acknowledged that there had been a delay in the engineer inspecting Ms Fs car. It 
initially offered her £75 to reflect this, but later increased its offer to £250.
One of our investigators considered Ms Fs complaint and thought it should be upheld. He 
said, in summary that the £250 compensation that Churchill had offered was reasonable to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience Ms F had experienced as a result of Churchills 
handling of the claim. But he thought that it should also pay her for loss of use of her car 
during the additional time that the claim had taken. And he said £10 per day was fair to 
reflect this. As Churchill had taken four weeks longer than the investigator thought it should 
have done to arrange an engineers assessment of Ms Fs car, he said it should pay Ms F 
£280 for the loss of use of her car, in addition to the £250 it had offered her.
Churchill didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, and for similar 
reasons.
Its not in dispute that Ms Fs policy didnt provide for a courtesy car if her car was written off. 
But I think it would have been reasonable to expect Churchill to arrange for an engineers 
inspection to be carried out within two weeks of being notified of the accident. As it was, it 
took around six weeks. This meant that Ms F was left without a car for roughly four weeks 
longer than she should have been. During that time she had to find other ways of getting 
around. And I think its reasonable to require Churchill to compensate Ms F for this. 
I accept that having the situation hanging over her, unresolved, for such a long time would 
have been stressful for Ms F. And I consider Churchills handling of her claim to have been 
poor, resulting in Ms F having to chase for updates and spend large amounts of time on the 
phone. This could have been avoided if Churchill had dealt with Ms Fs claim within 
reasonable timescales and had communicated clearly with her. 
In response to the investigators view, Churchill said that it believed the £250 it had offered 
Ms F was reasonable to reflect the delay in dealing with her claim. And it said that in 
reaching that figure, it took into account the fact that Ms F may have had additional travel 
expenses. But like the investigator, I consider the £250 that Churchill has offered Ms F to be 
reasonable to reflect the distress and inconvenience that she experienced. I dont, however, 
consider it to be enough to reflect the loss of use of Ms Fs car. Due to delays in arranging 
the engineers inspection, Ms F was without a car for around four weeks longer than she 
might reasonably have expected to be. And I consider compensation of £10 per day to be 
reasonable and appropriate to reflect this. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Churchill should pay Ms F the £250 it has already offered her, if it has not 
already done so. And in addition to this, it should pay her £280 to reflect the loss of use of 
her car. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require UK Insurance Limited, trading as 
Churchill, to put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman