DRN-2937351
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with how Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer 
Finance (Santander) has dealt with matters following their decision to end his car finance 
agreement.
Mr C is represented by his father in this complaint but for the purposes of this decision, I will 
refer to Mr C throughout. 
What happened
In September 2018, Mr C entered into a finance agreement for a car with Santander. In 
August 2019, they ended the agreement and took back the car due to a breach of the 
agreement terms. Mr C didnt believe Santander had treated him fairly and brought the case 
to our service, I will refer to this as complaint one. 
In December 2019, Mr C cancelled his direct debit payments. According to him, he said he 
was told to stop paying towards the agreement while complaint one was being investigated 
by our service. However Santander disputed this. As no payments were received, Santander 
recorded adverse information on Mr Cs credit file to reflect the missed payments for 
December 2019, January 2020 and February 2020.
Our investigator looked into complaint one and said Santander were entitled to take back the 
car as per the terms of the agreement however he said the proceeds of the sale of the car 
should be deducted from the balance owed.
In March 2020, the car was sold at auction. Based on the proceeds of the sale less auction 
costs, £12,499 was deducted from the overall balance owed by Mr C. However as there was 
a shortfall, Santander determined Mr C needed to pay £5,999 to clear the balance owed 
under the agreement. 
Mr C complained that Santander hadnt made him aware when the car was sold, nor the 
outstanding balance but they had recorded adverse information on his credit file due to the 
missed payments in December 2019, January 2020 and February 2020. Santander said it 
wasnt their process to let consumers know in advance when the car was going to be sold 
and as payments werent received for these months, they hadnt done anything wrong by 
recording the adverse information on his credit file.
 
Unhappy with their response, Mr C referred the complaint to our service. In December 2020, 
our investigator recommended the case was upheld. In summary they said following the sale 
of the car in March 2020, Santander hadnt communicated with Mr C to let him know about 
the balance owed or the arrears. Had they done so, its likely Mr C wouldve made 
arrangements to pay it or asked to set up a repayment plan. They concluded Santander 
hadnt acted fairly and recommended the adverse information should be removed from Mr 
Cs credit file from January 2020 onwards. 
Both parties accepted the investigators opinion, the case was closed in January 2021 and a 
repayment plan was set up for Mr C to pay the outstanding balance. However since that 
time, adverse information has continued to report on Mr Cs credit file. Santander said as 
there was still a balance owed, adverse information will automatically report but on a monthly 
basis, they would manually it from his credit file. Mr C was unhappy with this as sometimes 
the information was removed, other times it wasnt and this was impacting his credit file. He 
has provided several copies of his credit report which shows adverse information including 
defaults and missed payment markers. 
There has been regular communication between Mr C, our service and Santander about 
seeking an alternative and sustainable solution to stop the adverse information from 
reporting. Although Santander dont dispute it should be removed, they said they couldnt 
stop it from reporting as this was automatically done but they would manually remove it. 
After much back and forth, in September 2021 Santander made a proposal. They said they 
would record the agreement as being settled and separately set up an informal arrangement 
for a repayment plan for Mr C to pay the outstanding balance based on his affordability. 
However they said should he not keep to it, they would take legal action. They also agreed 
to remove the adverse information from January 2020 onwards but said it would take up to 
five days to reflect on Mr Cs credit file. Mr C agreed and Santander confirmed these actions 
had been carried out on 7 September 2021.
However despite Santanders confirmation of the above, Mr C has provided copies of his 
recent credit report in October 2021 showing adverse information is still reporting, namely 
January, February 2020 and January 2021. 
Ive reviewed the case from the beginning and its clear a lot has happened but for the 
purposes of this decision, Ive summarised it in far less detail as the timeline of events are 
well known to both parties. Similar to Mr C and Santander, I agreed with the findings of the 
investigator. Therefore I find the only outstanding matter for me to consider is what 
Santander must do to put things right. 
At this point, I would like to say while I acknowledge Santanders efforts to remove the 
adverse information, I dont find it to be a long term or sustainable solution because it 
requires manual human intervention on a monthly basis across different credit reference 
agencies. It goes without saying its susceptible to human error, which is what happened 
here some adverse information was removed, some wasnt.  
In October 2021, I sent Santander my initial thoughts. I said despite their acceptance of the 
investigators view in January 2021 and their proposed resolution in September 2021, 
adverse information continued to report. I highlighted by their own admission when Mr Cs 
most recent credit report was brought to their attention, they said they had checked two 
credit reference agencies and removed adverse information for January 2020 and June 
2019 to show perfect conduct.
Given what had happened so far and what had been agreed, I said it was disappointing to 
see the situation remained unresolved and now theyre also saying adverse information was 
reporting in 2019 which they had never mentioned previously. I said the adverse information 
should be removed and the agreement should be reported as settled and a repayment plan 
set up which is what they said they would do. I made it clear if the matter continues, its most 
likely to lead to future complaints and further inconvenience to Mr C.
Overall, I said I believed their resolution proposed in September 2021 was fair and 
reasonable but they need to make sure it was fully actioned. I explained I couldnt ignore the 
significant amount of time its taking to put things right given they initially accepted the 
investigators opinion in January 2021. During this time, Mr C has said this is causing stress 
and worry because hes concerned about the impact this is having on his credit file, the 
worry about the ability to get credit and the considerable amount of time he has spent going 
back and forth with our service and Santander to resolve the issue. Based on the impact this has had, in addition to what Santander had already offered, I recommended they pay £300 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
In response to my initial thoughts, Mr C said given what has happened so far how could he 
be certain Santander would put things right as Ive said. Meanwhile, Santander accepted my 
initial findings.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I appreciate Mr Cs comments and I can understand given what has happened thus far, he 
would like to receive assurance that this matter will be resolved once and for all. This is why 
in this decision, Ive made it clear what Santander must do to put things right and Ive asked 
them to confirm in writing when theyve done so. Lastly, I would like to stress that if Mr C 
accepts this decision, it will become legally binding on Santander. 
As Ive received no further information or evidence from either party to make me change my 
decision, Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint for the reasons as explained in my initial 
findings as set out above. 
My final decision
 For the reasons above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
To put things right, Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer Finance 
must:
- Record the agreement as settled on Mr Cs credit file;
- Set up a suitable repayment plan for Mr C to pay the outstanding balance based on 
his affordability;
- Remove all adverse information from Mr Cs credit file from June 2019 onwards;
- Put in place the appropriate measure to ensure adverse information doesnt report on 
Mr Cs credit file moving forward;
- Provide written confirmation to Mr C when the above has been carried out;
- Pay £300 compensation to Mr C for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman