DRN-4477008
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has failed fully to comply with his subject 
access request (SAR) for documents despite him making the request a number of times, and 
that it failed to respond to his complaint.
What happened
Mr H says that he first made the request to Barclays on 27 June 2022. He says that he 
followed that request up with further requests on 12 October 2022 and 21 January 2023. He 
says that he reiterated those requests, and made a complaint about the failure to give him a 
full response, on 10 March 2023. He says that he still has not received a full response to his 
requests.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator said that from the 
information Mr H provided, it seemed as though he had received a response to his SAR 
requests, but that the documents contained were not what he wished for. She said that from 
what shed seen Barclays had acted reasonably in dealing with the SAR request. At that  
stage Barclays had not sent its file, but it has now been received, which is in part why I am 
making this provisional decision.
Barclays has said that it responded to Mr Hs SARs on 8 and 29 July 2022 (it says in its 
response to us 2023, but I assume that was an error for 2022, when compared to its file 
notes) and also on 26 October and 10 November 2022. It said that if Mr H still requires an 
SAR it is willing to provide this but would need to know what information he requires.
Mr H believes that Barclays has persistently failed to disclose documents he'd requested as 
part of the SAR process.
I issued a provisional decision. It in it I said I didn't think that Barclays had responded to 
Mr Hs complaint properly and that it should pay compensation of £50. I further said that it 
should provide copies of the letters that Mr H has requested. And that if Mr H indicates to me 
what other documents he still requires I would consider whether it would be reasonable to 
ask Barclays to supply them.
Barclays accepted my provisional findings. It indicated that it will raise an SAR for the 
specific information once the FD is received (so it can ensure that no further documents are 
required by Mr H). 
Mr H was not happy. He believes that he's made clear and precise requests for information 
and that Barclays has obstructed these. He further states that he still has not received 
information such as call transcripts, in a clear format.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out below my provisional findings, in italics:
I have noted that there is a certain lack of evidence from both sides in this case. Where the 
evidence is incomplete or contradictory I will make my findings on what I consider is more 
likely than not to have happened.
As I've said, Mr H tells us he first made his request for an SAR on 27 June 2022. Barclays 
notes indicate that on 29 July 2022, it sent some voice recordings and followed this up with 
other documents. Mr H says he made a further request on 12 October 2022, and from 
Barclays notes I see that further documents were sent to him on 10 November 2022. In both 
cases I don't know what documents it sent, nor has Barclays been able to provide copies of 
its responses to his requests. While Barclays advises that further responses to his SARs 
were sent on 8 July 2022 and 26 October 2022, no evidence of that appears in the notes. 
Mr H has provided us with a copy of a letter he sent to Barclays on 10 March 2022. This 
letter set out the copies of letters and their dates that he required. He says he received a 
response from Barclays data protection team on 22 March, but these were copies of 
documents hed already been sent. I haven't seen a copy of that response, nor does it 
appear in Barclays notes.
I am conscious of the lack of evidence from Barclays side. But as far as I can see it did 
comply with Mr Hs SARs of 27 June and 12 October 2022. I think it likely also that it did 
receive his letter of 10 March 2023 which should have been handled as a complaint as well 
as a further request for certain documents. In light of the fact that he didn't receive a 
response to his complaint I think that Barclays should pay compensation of £50.
As regards a further response to his SAR, Mr H has said that he wants copies of the 
following documents:
Barclays letters to him of 5, 6 and 14 April 2022.
His letters to Barclays of 27 June and 12 October 2022 and 21 January 2023.
I think it's fair and reasonable for Barclays to provide copies of the above letters or to advise 
that it either does not have such copies or why it would be unable to provide them. In 
response to this provisional decision, Mr H should advise me whether there are any further 
documents he requires and I can consider whether it would be reasonable to ask Barclays to 
provide them.
Whilst I fully understand that Mr H is unhappy with what Barclays provided, I have to bear in 
mind that I have not seen evidence of what Barclays has provided nor is Mr H prepared to 
set out exactly what documents he wants. I've also not seen copies of Mr Hs SARs which I 
understand he may not still have but which may be contained in the letters set out above. 
So what I will do is require Barclays to provide Mr H with copies of the letters set out above. 
It should further consider any SAR which Mr H may make once he receives the copy letters. 
As I don't know what it has already sent, even if Barclays thinks it will be sending duplicates 
it should nevertheless send those. If Mr H is still unhappy with what he has received then I 
can only suggest that he refers the matter to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
I do note that Mr H has advised that hes made SARs concerning other complaints which he 
has made about Barclays to the Financial Ombudsman Service. If he has not done so 
already, he may want to consider making an SAR to the Financial Ombudsman Service for 
any documents or call recordings received from Barclays in respect of those complaints.Putting things right
Barclays should pay Mr H £50 compensation.
It should further provide Mr H with copies of the letters as set out above, or advise that it 
either does not have such copies or why it would be unable to provide them.
If, after receiving the copy letters Mr H makes a further SAR for specific documents, 
Barclays should comply with that SAR so far as it is able to do so.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman