DRN-2771811
The complaint
Mr S complains that Compare The Market Limited introduced him to an insurance 
underwriter that ceased trading. He said he incurred financial loss as a result of taking out 
that policy.
What happened
In February 2019, Mr S used Compare the Market (CTM) to purchase a household 
insurance policy. After he was provided with quotes from a number of different companies, 
he decided to take out a policy via a broker that Ill refer to here as N. The insurance policy 
that Mr S took out was underwritten by a company Ill call L.
On 24 May 2019, N wrote to Mr S to explain that L had gone into administration. Mr S 
complained about this to CTM as he felt he wouldnt have been aware of either N or L had 
he not compared the insurance market via its website. And he said hed incurred financial 
loss as a result of L ceasing to trade.
CTM investigated Mr S concerns but didnt uphold his complaint. In its final response letter, 
CTM stated that it had been notified that L had ceased trading on 8 May 2019. And it said, at 
that point, it had removed reference to L from its website to ensure no new quotes from it 
would be returned. It also stated that, as a price comparison website, it had no control over 
the policies offered to Mr S. And it suggested he approach N to further discuss his concerns.
Unhappy with CTMs response to his complaint, Mr S referred it to our service. Our 
investigator looked into what had happened and empathised with Mr S. But she didnt 
recommend upholding this complaint. She was persuaded that CTM hadnt been aware of 
Ls financial difficulties at the time Mr S had taken out his policy. And she didnt think it had 
done anything wrong because it hadnt recommended the policy to Mr S. CTM agreed with 
our investigators view of this complaint. But Mr S didnt and requested an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his complaint, Mr S has gone to some trouble to provide our service with some very 
detailed points. I want to assure him that Ive read everything hes sent us. I hope hell 
understand if I dont address every comment hes made in this decision. I intend to 
concentrate on what I consider is key to the complaint. My role is to decide if CTM dealt with 
Mr S in a fair and reasonable way.
CTM is a price comparison website. It doesnt manage or underwrite insurance policies. It 
acts as an introducer and doesnt promote any insurer over another. Its website provides 
quotes, as it did here to Mr S, from a number of insurance providers based on the 
information a consumer provides. These quotes can then be compared and are, typically, 
displayed so the cheapest quote appears first. They can also be filtered by a consumer to 
show what each policy offers as a feature  such as the level of excess and whether they 
include free legal expense insurance.
CTM didnt recommend any of the companies shown to Mr S on its website. It was up to Mr 
S to determine which insurer to take cover out with based on the suitability of the policy 
offered. As the sale was non-advised, as in it wasnt recommended to Mr S following an 
assessment of his circumstances, I dont think CTM mis-sold a policy of insurance to Mr S.
Once a consumer selects a quote on CTMs website, theyre diverted to the website of the 
broker or insurer offering the corresponding policy. This is what happened in Mr S case  he 
was directed to N, a broker, which found him a policy with L. CTM had no control over that 
part of the sales process.
CTM isnt required to carry out due diligence on insurers that brokers recommend  that 
responsibility lies with the broker instead. So, here, I dont think CTM needed to look into the 
financial circumstances of L. And, as our investigator explained, CTM isnt responsible for 
ensuring that N carried out due diligence on L. Its also not responsible if N failed to do so.
Its very unfortunate that L has ceased trading and has gone into administration. And I can 
understand that this has impacted on Mr S financially, which is bound to have been 
upsetting. But what happened isnt something I can hold CTM responsible for. 
Im satisfied that, at the time Mr S took out his policy, CTM had no knowledge of Ls financial 
difficulties. If it had known, I think it would have withdrawn any policies underwritten by L 
from its website  as it did in early May 2019, which is when it said it became aware of what 
had happened. Theres no evidence that CTM continued to feature policies underwritten by L 
on its website after it became aware of its financial situation. 
I appreciate the reasons why Mr S brought this complaint to our service. But, in the overall 
circumstances, Im not persuaded that CTM has done anything wrong here. And, because of 
this, I wont be asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman