DRN-4348693
The complaint
Mr J and Mr J complain National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) closed their account 
without notice or explanation. And that NatWest didnt explain they needed to pay off their 
overdraft which has now been unfairly recorded as a default against them.
To keep things simple, I will refer to the father as Mr J and his son as Mr J2 going ahead.
What happened
In January 2020, following a review, NatWest sent a notification letter that it was closing 
Mr J and Mr J2s joint account in 60 days. Mr J had added his son to the account - of which 
he was previously the sole account holder - around September 2019 following an 
application.
As it had not heard from Mr J or Mr J2, and as there was an outstanding overdraft of around 
£3,000 on the account, NatWest passed the debt to its recoveries department in April 2020. 
And later to NatWests recoveries department in June 2020.
In late June or early July 2020, NatWest passed the debt to a third-party debt management 
company (DM)  who were authorised to act on behalf of NatWest - as it still had not heard 
from Mr J and/or Mr J2. As Mr J and Mr J2 didnt pay off the overdraft, NatWest reported the 
status of the account as a default to the credit reporting agencies.
When the DM contacted Mr J, he explained he knew nothing about having to pay the 
overdraft and that he was in arrears. At that point, Mr J made a payment to settle the 
account after asking the DM what he needed to do. Mr J paid roughly half of the outstanding 
overdraft amount.
Mr J says he later tried to re-mortgage one of his properties but was declined as he had poor 
credit. Mr J says he looked into this and realised he had had a default registered against him 
by NatWest for the overdraft on his current account.
Unhappy with what had happened Mr J complained to NatWest. Mr J and Mr J2 have raised 
a variety of complaint points with NatWest which has led to them receiving around three 
responses. In summary, some of the key points NatWest have made access its various 
responses are:
6 August 2020 response
- NatWests records confirm the account was transferred to its recoveries department, 
and a letter was sent making Mr J aware of this decision including a 60-day closure 
letter
- It was sorry a letter had not been sent by the DM to both Mr J and Mr J2 at the same 
time
- NatWest cant remove Mr J2s address details from its records unless he contacts it 
to do so
4 October 2020 response
- A commercial decision was made by NatWest to stop offering Mr J banking facilities. 
A 60-day closure letter was sent on 30 January 2020 about this, and the letter made 
Mr J aware of the consequences if the outstanding debt wasnt paid on time. This 
included the transfer of the debt to its recoveries department and the impact it would 
have on his credit file
- The account was passed to the recoveries department on 3 April 2020
- NatWest is obliged to report the correct status of the account to the Credit Reference 
Agencies. As the outstanding balance wasnt repaid, and the account transferred to 
the recoveries department correctly, it cant remove the default
17 December 2021 response
- On 2 April 2020 an exit letter was issued to Mr J as 60 days had passed, and as 
there was no contact from Mr J and the outstanding amount on the account had not 
been paid, the account was transferred to the recoveries team
- The account has been closed correctly and NatWest cant give the precise reason 
behind this
- It is not the responsibility of NatWest to attempt a repayment arrangement with Mr J 
and Mr J2 when the account is due to be closed. They were made aware repayment 
of the full overdraft was to be paid prior to the closure process of their account and so 
NatWest cannot be held accountable for no repayment arrangements being made. 
Mr J and Mr J2 were also aware of the consequences if the debt was not paid within 
the 60 days
- Therefore, due to NatWests decision to close Mr J and Mr J2s account, the recovery 
process continued with their account being transferred to DM on 2 July 2020 to 
recover the debt owed. The process has been followed correctly by the NatWest in 
line with the Terms and Conditions as the debt was not repaid within the 60 days as 
requested
Unhappy with what NatWest said, Mr J and Mr J2 referred their complaint to this service. 
One of our adjudicators then looked into the complaint. In summary they found:
- NatWest is under no obligation to continue offering an account to a customer if it 
doesnt want to do so. So this is a commercial decision it is entitled to take, if 
reasonable notice has been given
- Having looked at the terms of the account, NatWest gave Mr J and Mr J2 60 days 
notice to close the account, so it hasnt treated them unfairly
- NatWest is under no obligation to share its reason for closing the account
- NatWest acted in line with the terms and conditions of the account in relation to the 
debt being passed to the DM and registering a default. The default was applied 
correctly as the outstanding debt wasnt paid within the time frame- They checked the email address on file which matched that which NatWest had. So 
its likely Mr J and Mr J2 wouldve received correspondence and were advised of the 
consequences of not paying the debt in time
Mr J and Mr J2 did not agree with what our adjudicator said. In short, theyve said:
- Mr J updated NatWest of his email a long time after the default was registered
- Mr J didnt receive any correspondence of any kind from NatWest nor any 
information about the consequences of not paying the outstanding overdraft, and the 
only time he did was from the DM  which he responded to immediately
- NatWest had a moral obligation to contact him about the account closure and 
repayment of the overdraft which it didnt do
- This all happened at the start of the pandemic when you couldnt go into a branch 
and had to spend hours trying to speak to someone on the phone
As Mr J and Mr J2 didnt agree, their complaint was passed to me to decide. I then sent my 
provisional decision to both parties. Here is what I said: 
Provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im planning on upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Banks in the UK, like NatWest, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means NatWest needs to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
NatWest does not need to explain its reasons to Mr J and Mr J2 for reviewing, restricting, 
and closing an account. But it does need to explain to this service what those reasons are 
and give us enough evidence so that we can determine it has acted in line with its legal and 
regulatory obligations and acted properly when taking such measures.
NatWest have not provided enough information for me to fairly decide that it had reason 
enough to close Mr J and Mr J2s account in the way that it did. Because of that I must find 
that it acted unfairly when deciding to close the account albeit with 60 days notice.
This brings me onto the crux of Mr J and Mr J2s complaint, that is, Mr J didnt receive any 
communication about his account closure and the requirement to pay off his overdraft to 
avoid his credit file being adversely affected.
For much of the time this complaint has been with this service NatWest have maintained that 
a notice to close the account letter, which contained information relating to the 
consequences of not paying off the overdraft, were sent to Mr J. More recently it has been 
able to send me a copy of this letter which I note has been sent to Mr J2s address but made 
out to Mr J.
Mr J has a separate address to Mr J2 and has lived at that address for quite some time. He 
also tells us that Mr J2, his son, hasnt lived with him for around 12 years.In one of its own submissions to this service, NatWest have said this type of letter is issued 
to each account holder. So on a joint account, both parties would receive a letter. But later it 
has said it only sent this to Mr J2s address. NatWest has explained it probably did this 
because Mr J2 ticked a box on his account application in 2019  when being added to Mr Js 
account - to say he lived with parents.
On the same application form Mr J2 has put down a different address to that of Mr J. Having 
given this some thought, Im persuaded this isnt good practice, nor does it sound like 
NatWest followed its own procedure as it had said letters are sent to each account holder. 
NatWest say because Mr J2 said he was living with parents they sent the notice of closure 
letter to his address. But its possible Mr J2 could be living with another of his parents.
Mr J was effectively the principal account holder as he had held the account in his sole name 
for quite some time beforehand. He also explains he added his son, Mr J2, only because he 
needed a bank account for his income to be paid in. Mr J has also explained his son didnt 
really need to use the account in the end, and any letter he may have received for Mr J, 
were sometimes handed over to him but not always by Mr J2.
So, after weighing this up, I dont think NatWest acted properly here, or in line with its own 
procedures by not sending Mr J the letter to his correct address. This is exacerbated by Mr J 
effectively being the principal account holder, and long-standing customer of NatWest.
As NatWest have not shown it closed the account fairly, I would in these circumstances 
expect it to put things right by putting Mr J and Mr J2 back in the position they were in before 
the error. So that would mean their account should not have been closed, meaning the 
overdraft would not have had to have been paid off. This also means no recoveries process 
would have been initiated by NatWest.
Im also minded to say that even if NatWest had given me enough information to show it was 
justified in closing Mr J and J2s account in this way, it failed to properly notify Mr J of its 
actions and the consequences as it didnt send him any notice of this.
Unfortunately, NatWest doesnt have copies of any subsequent letters it sent Mr J or Mr J2 
before moving the account recovery to a DM. But based on what Ive seen, Im persuaded 
that if it did, it most likely sent the letters solely to Mr J2s address. Because of that I find 
Mr Js testimony more plausible in that he didnt know about the closure or the requirement 
to pay off the overdraft until the DM contacted him much later in 2020 at which point, 
unbeknown to him, NatWest had registered the default.
Mr J has also sent us screenshots of his other creditors, including a NatWest credit card, 
which shows hes maintained regular payments to maintain a good credit profile. So taken 
together, Im persuaded that had Mr J been made aware of the closure and requirement to 
pay off his overdraft in the timeline given, its most likely he would have done so.
NatWest may argue that when Mr J did discover he owed this debt from the DM, he settled it 
by paying off roughly half of what was outstanding. And so, its likely the default would have 
stood in any case. Ive already said that none of this would have happened as I dont have 
enough information to conclude NatWest acted properly when closing the account. But Mr J 
has also said that when approached by the DM he asked them what he needed to do to 
settle the debt and they said he needs to pay the amount he did. So that is what he did. I 
think this is a reasonable action  especially as it appears he didnt know about the default at 
that stage.
So Im persuaded NatWest should remove the default and any adverse credit records for the 
bank account against Mr J and Mr J2s credit file. But in saying so, Im mindful Mr J and Mr J2 didnt pay off the full outstanding amount. So I think Mr J and Mr J2 should pay the 
remaining debt before NatWest takes steps to remove the adverse credit information 
recorded against them.
Mr J and Mr J2 have said this matter has caused them substantive distress and 
inconvenience. Mr J says this has prevented him from being able to re-mortgage his other 
properties and get better interest rates, and it also stopped him getting other credit due to 
the adverse information on his credit file. Hes also had to pursue his complaint, initially 
when it was difficult to contact NatWest during the pandemic.
Ive thought very carefully about the impact NatWests actions have had on Mr J and Mr J2, 
and because of that I am planning on awarding £700 compensation for the trouble and upset 
NatWest have caused them. Mr J has explained the impact this has had on his lifestyle and 
mental health. Ive also taken into account the impact this had on Mr Js ability to gain credit 
and a re-mortgage, but Ive mitigated any potential financial loss against how far removed 
this is from the NatWests actions and what is reasonably foreseeable. And ultimately, no 
credit is guaranteed.
Putting things right 
So I am planning on directing NatWest to do the following to put things right:
-Remove all adverse credit records and markers from Mr J and Mr J2s credit file once 
they have paid NatWest the remaining debt left from their overdraft
-Pay Mr J and Mr J2 £700 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
I then set both parties a deadline for any further arguments and comments. Mr J and Mr J2 
asked for an extension to this, which I agreed to. 
NatWest agreed with what I was planning on deciding and asked whether the £700 Id 
recommended as compensation for the distress and inconvenience should be paid against 
the remaining debt or to Mr J and Mr J2 directly. 
Mr J and Mr J2 did not agree to everything I had said NatWest needs to do to put things 
right. They were happy about what I said about the default being removed but said they had 
lost out on a low interest re-mortgage product which has cost them over £200 a month due 
to higher payments. They say because of this theyve lost out financially in the region of 
£50,000. Mr J says he applied for £80,000 additional borrowing but was declined due to the 
default NatWest registered against him  so he missed out on a 2.1% interest rate. 
Mr J says the intention for the borrowing was to pay off his credit card with a £5,000 limit as 
he was being charged a high interest rate on that  and was using it a lot due to the 
pandemic. Mr J says hes paid around £3,500 in interest to his credit card  and he couldnt 
transfer it to a 0% credit card because of the default. 
Mr J has also sent in further evidence for me to consider which includes a letter from a 
mortgage company which says his application was declined in June 2021 for £80,000 due to 
a default being registered against him. A subsequent letter from the same company shows 
Mr J applied for a mortgage of 2.15% for his additional borrowing and his fixed rate product 
at the time would expire in July 2021. 
As both parties have had a reasonable time to respond, I will now decide this complaint. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons in my provisional decision, and as above, Ive decided to uphold this 
complaint. 
NatWest have agreed with my findings on the merits of this complaint and for upholding it, so 
I dont need to make further findings on these points. Mr J and Mr J2 have made further 
submissions in relation to the redress  that is what NatWest needs to do to put things right. 
Mr J says NatWests actions have caused him a substantive financial loss of around 
£50,000. He says the default that was registered by NatWest meant he wasnt able to secure 
further borrowing of £80,000 at a preferential interest rate prevailing at that time. He adds he 
was taking out the additional borrowing to help him pay off a credit card with a balance of 
about £5,000.
In relation to this point, I said in my provisional decision that: Ive also taken into account the 
impact this had on Mr Js ability to gain credit and a re-mortgage, but Ive mitigated any 
potential financial loss against how far removed this is from the NatWests actions and what 
is reasonably foreseeable. And ultimately, no credit is guaranteed
Ive carefully considered what Mr J has said about this and reviewed the evidence he has 
sent. But I see no reason to depart from what I said about this not being reasonably 
foreseeable and that no credit is guaranteed. And borrowing money after all comes at a cost 
and must be repaid, so I cant say Mr J has suffered a loss for the principal borrowing 
amount. 
I also note Mr J says he wanted to use some of these funds to pay off his credit card which 
attracted a much higher cost of borrowing. But its quite a bit disproportionate to the amount 
he says he wanted to borrow, and though I dont doubt Mr Js integrity here, I cant be sure 
that is what it would have been utilised for. 
So because of this I wont be making any further award of compensation. 
NatWest has asked how it should pay the £700 compensation award for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr J and Mr J2 have suffered. This should be paid to them directly to a 
nominated account of their choosing, unless of course they are happy it is paid against the 
remaining overdraft debt balance.    
Putting things right
For the reasons above, to put things right National Westminster Bank Plc must: 
- Remove all adverse credit records and markers from Mr J and Mr J2s credit file once 
they have paid NatWest the remaining debt left from their overdraft
- Pay Mr J and Mr J2 £700 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc must now put 
things right as directed above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman