DRN-4180214
The complaint
Miss S complains about the quality of a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement 
with Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMF). 
What happened
In July 2022, Miss S took out a hire purchase agreement with SMF for a used car. This car 
had a cash price of £8,494. It was around 10 years old and had travelled approximately 
112,414 miles. Miss S agreed to pay a £134 deposit, 60 monthly instalments of £244.63, 
plus an option to purchase fee if she decided to keep the car when the finance agreement 
ended.
Miss S says she picked the car up and drove it home on 10 August 2022. Shes told us that 
a warning message appeared on the dashboard saying anti-theft mode activated - and that 
she later had to stop the car because smoke started coming out from the engine. She says 
the supplying dealer arranged for it to be transported to a garage for repair the following day. 
Miss S told us that, after it had been at the garage for nearly two weeks, she complained to 
her credit broker that she wanted to reject the car. She says the broker told her she wouldnt 
be able to do that until shed given the dealer a chance to fix the fault. She says she also 
complained to SMF on 23 August 2022, saying she wanted to reject the car because it was 
taking too long to fix. 
Miss S has told us that she collected the car for a weekend in August 2022 on the 
understanding that shed return it straight back to the garage for the repair work to continue. 
But she says she was unable to go away on the family outing shed planned because the car 
still had the same issues with smoke and dashboard warnings. 
Miss S says the garage contacted her on 9 September 2022 to say the car was ready for 
collection. Shes told us that there was still smoke coming from the engine as she drove the 
car home that day, and the anti-theft dashboard warning came back on the following day.
Miss S says she contacted SMF, who said shed need to get a garage to confirm the car was 
faulty. She arranged for a mechanic to carry out diagnostics, costing her £79. She was given 
a diagnostic report and a health check, dated 1 and 3 October 2022 respectively. 
The diagnostic report listed a number of active and stored codes found in the cars systems. 
The health check listed various repairs and maintenance, categorised either as requires 
urgent attention or advisory. Miss S sent copies of these documents to SMF, who 
arranged for the car to be collected and returned to the supplying dealer on 1 November 
2022. 
On 6 December 2022 the car was inspected by an independent engineer. SMF issued their 
final response to Miss S the following month. They said they wouldnt uphold her complaint 
or accept her request to reject the car because no fault had been found with it. But they said 
theyd award her £300 for the length of time it had taken to resolve her complaint.
Unhappy with this response, Miss S brought her complaint to us. She said she believed the 
faults had been repaired since the car was returned to the supplying dealer, whereas she 
shouldve been allowed to reject the car. 
Miss S told us she had no idea where the cars been since it was collected from her on 1 
November 2022. She said the independent engineers report suggested it had travelled 
around 500 miles during that period. She told us shed received a fine for the car having 
been driven through a clean air zone on 12 December 2022. She said shed reported it to 
the police because the car shouldnt be on the road without her permission. She said shed 
raised her concerns to SMF, but theyd advised her any questions about this needed to 
come through our service.
After looking into what had happened, our investigator said he didnt think the car had been 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss S - and that she should be allowed to 
reject it. He said SMF should collect the car, return Miss Ss deposit, end the agreement with 
nothing further for her to pay, and remove any adverse information about it from her credit 
file. 
The investigator thought Miss S should only have to pay for the short period of use shed 
had of the car between 9 September 2022 and 1 November 2022. He thought SMF should 
return all other monthly payments shed made. 
The investigator wasnt satisfied that SMFs offer of £300 was adequate for the considerable 
amount of distress and inconvenience Miss S had been caused. He thought this should be 
increased to a total of £450, and that SMF should also reimburse the £79 shed paid for the 
diagnostic and health check.
Miss S accepted our investigators view of how her complaint should be resolved. 
SMF expressed concern that the investigator had accepted Miss Ss testimony without 
supporting evidence. Ill summarise the main points they made:
The credit broker had confirmed that the car was returned to the supplying dealer on 
11 August 2022, and Miss S collected it on 19 August 2022 following a reset at a 
manufacturers garage. They didnt consider one week to be an unreasonable 
timeframe to diagnose and repair the faults.
Miss S provided no evidence of a fault until 3 October 2022, when she obtained a 
vehicle health check. This is just a visual inspection. The check sheet made no 
reference to smoke coming from the car. Anything highlighted in amber would be 
advisory, which wouldnt be unusual for a car thats covered almost 113,000 miles. 
The health check noted the fuel leak to be due to a broken plastic clip, which wouldnt 
mean the car wasnt fit for purpose. 
There was no evidence to suggest Miss S was unable to use features such as the 
cars radio and satnav. The health check showed the centre display control unit as a 
pass.
The car had passed an MOT on 2 August 2022. Although the brake pads were worn 
there was no obligation on the dealer to change them. This doesnt make the car unfit 
for purpose. 
The car was almost 10 years old and had over 112,000 miles on the clock when it 
was supplied to Miss S. The dealer and independent engineer had both confirmed 
there was no fault with the car. The independent report was carried out by a qualified 
engineer whod carried out a full inspection and road test. 
There was no evidence to support Miss Ss claim that the dealer had repaired the car so that shed be unable to reject it. If recent repairs had been carried out, the 
independent engineer wouldve picked that up.
SMF asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. After reviewing the evidence, I 
wrote to both parties setting out my initial thoughts on the case. I invited them to send in any 
further information or comments theyd like me to consider before I made my final decision. I 
didnt receive any response. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The agreement Miss S entered into was a hire purchase agreement, which means I can 
consider a complaint about it. Under this type of agreement, SMF is also the supplier of the 
car and is therefore responsible for a complaint about its quality.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that 
under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory.
The standard thats applied is whether a reasonable person would consider the quality of the 
goods to be satisfactory, taking into account the way they were described, the price and all 
the other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, it seems likely that a court would 
take into account things like its age, mileage, and history.
In this case, I bear in mind that the car was almost 10 years old and had covered more than 
112,000 miles when it was supplied to Miss S. And the price was a lot less than it wouldve 
been when it was new. I dont think a reasonable person would have the same standards for 
this car as they would for a newer one with less mileage. 
But I think a buyer whod spent around £8,500 on a car would expect to be able to drive it for 
a reasonable amount of time without major issues. And although I dont think theyd expect 
everything to be functioning as well as it did when it was new, I think theyd expect all the 
main features to be in working order. 
Was the car of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss S?
Miss S has provided a photo of the dashboard display, showing a warning saying Anti-theft 
protection activated. Ive seen a copy of the vehicle health check dated 3 October 2022, 
which records a theft protection fault. Ive also seen a copy of the vehicle diagnostic report 
created two days earlier, which records an active and stored fault code for The PIN for theft 
protection is wrong or not present. 
So, Im satisfied that there was at least one fault with the car. I dont consider it relevant that 
this fault is recorded as advisory, rather than requiring urgent attention. As Ive explained, I 
think Miss S was entitled to expect the cars main features to be working. Miss S says 
whenever the anti-theft protection message appeared the cars central display screen 
became locked, which meant she couldnt use features like satnav or radio. 
Having carried out internet research into this, Ive seen confirmation that activation of the 
anti-theft protection on this car will disable certain functions, including the satnav and sound 
system. So, I think it most likely that these features did stop working whenever the anti-theft 
protection warning came on. I note that the diagnostic report and health check record the car to have covered 112,870 
miles. Given that Miss S had less than two months and 500 miles use of the car by this 
time, I consider it most likely that the fault was already present or developing when the car 
was supplied to her. 
SMF say the supplying dealer and independent engineer found no evidence of any fault with 
the car. Ive seen no supporting evidence of any diagnostic testing carried out by the dealer. 
Ive reviewed the independent engineers report of the inspection on 6 December 2022, at 
which time the car was recorded to have covered 113,386 miles. This says:
We had performed a diagnostic test, which revealed no fault codes.
We performed a road test. with no warning lights being produced and no abnormalities 
being noted.
We can only conclude, based on the available evidence presented to us at the time of 
the inspection, that we were unable to identify any faults with the vehicle.
Ive given careful thought to possible reasons why the independent engineer didnt see any 
evidence of the faults identified in the diagnostic report and health check. 
Ive seen evidence showing the car was collected from Miss S on 1 November 2022. The 
independent engineers inspection was carried out on 6 December 2022, at which time it 
was recorded to have covered 113,386 miles. SMFs records provide no explanation as to 
where the car was, or the reason for the delay in getting it inspected. 
I think its most likely that the fault codes found in the cars system in October 2022 were 
cleared at some time before the independent engineer saw the car, two months later. As 
fault codes are stored and cleared electronically, Im not persuaded that this is something 
the independent engineer wouldve been able to see.
The independent engineers report shows the car was only road tested for seven miles. So, I 
also think its very likely that the fault simply didnt become apparent in that time. Ive seen 
evidence that, after the manufacturers garage carried out a reset and returned the car to 
Miss S on 9 September 2022, the anti-theft warning didnt come back on until the following 
day.
Miss S says there were also other issues with the car. SMF dispute this  they feel any other 
issues were commensurate with its age and mileage. I dont consider it necessary for me to 
decide these points. Regardless of whether there were also other faults with the car, I think 
the problem with the anti-theft device meant it wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Miss S. 
Did SMF do enough to put things right?
The CRA sets out remedies for consumers whose right to receive goods of satisfactory 
quality hasnt been met. The evidence Ive seen suggests Miss S initially agreed to a repair. 
The CRA makes it clear that the repair must be carried out within a reasonable time and 
without significant inconvenience to Miss S, or shed have the right to reject the car. 
SMF say the car went back to the dealership on 11 August 2022 and Miss S collected it on 
19 August 2022, after a manufacturers garage had carried out a reset. They feel a week to 
diagnose the faults & do any repairs was fairly quick. 
But Ive seen no supporting evidence to confirm this was what happened. And I dont 
consider this account to be consistent with the records SMF have shown us. Their records show Miss S contacted them numerous times about ongoing problems with the car. For 
example:
On 30 August 2022 she told them shed collected the car on 19 August 2022, but it 
had to go back a few days later because she was still experiencing the same 
problems. SMF noted these problems to be limp mode, anti-theft device, EML 
illuminated, and a seat belt issue. 
On 8 September 2022 Miss S told SMF the car was still at the garage. She said the 
broker had advised her that she had to allow the dealer to repair the car in the first 
instance. SMF told her that wasnt correct, but to be able to reject the car the onus 
was on her to provide evidence of a fault at the point of sale. 
Miss S called again on the same day, saying the manufacturers garage had told her 
the seatbelt and radio hadnt been fixed. She said theyd told her the radio had been 
swapped with one that didnt work, which was why the anti-theft warning kept coming 
on. 
The notes of the conversations about these issues continue, but I dont consider it necessary 
for me to list any more of them. Im satisfied that Miss S made SMF aware the car had been 
at the garage for several weeks and the problems hadnt been fixed. At that point, I think 
SMF shouldve done more to resolve this for her. 
I appreciate SMF would generally expect the customer to provide a diagnostic report or 
some other evidence showing there was a fault with the car. But in this case the car had 
been taken away from Miss S by the supplying dealer and delivered to a manufacturers 
garage of their choice. Given those circumstances, I think it would have been a relatively 
simple matter for SMF to ask that garage to confirm whether they still had the car - and what 
was wrong with it. 
Instead of doing that, SMFs records show they required Miss S to obtain written evidence 
from the manufacturers garage to support her request to reject the car. Miss S contacted 
SMF again on 20 September 2020 saying she was having difficulty getting evidence from the 
manufacturers garage - and that this was probably because the dealer was their customer. 
Again, instead of simply requesting this evidence themselves, SMF advised Miss S to get a 
report from another VAT-registered garage. 
I think all of this caused a lot of unnecessary stress and inconvenience for Miss S - as well 
as delaying getting this matter resolved.
Putting things right
I dont think its entirely clear whether Miss S initially wanted a repair, or simply believed 
thats what she had to accept. But in any event, Im satisfied that the fault wasnt repaired 
within a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to her - despite Miss S 
allowing ample opportunity for this to happen. 
Ive seen evidence showing Miss S told SMF that she wanted to reject the car, and I find she 
had the right to do that. So to put things right, SMF should end the agreement and return her 
£134 deposit. And they should arrange for the car to be collected from wherever its currently 
being stored without charge to Miss S. 
Miss S told us that the dealer has had the car for a significant proportion of the time since 
she got it. I dont think its fair for her to make monthly payments to SMF for periods when 
she wasnt provided with a car to use. So I think they should refund all her monthly 
payments, retaining an amount for the use shes had. Miss S told us she was able to use the car between 9 September 2022 and 1 November 
2022. Although I think its fair that she should pay for the use shes had of the car, Im not 
persuaded that it was functioning as it should have done. So, I think SMF should only be 
entitled to retain 90% of the amount theyd normally have charged. 
Ive seen a receipt confirming Miss S paid £79 on 7 October 2022 for the diagnostic report 
and health check, because SMF told her she needed to provide evidence to support her 
request to reject the car. So, I think they should reimburse her for that.
Miss S told us that her main reasons for getting this car were to get to work, take her young 
child to nursery, but most importantly to take him on family holidays. She says shes had to 
get the bus to work - and that not having a car with such a young child has been a 
nightmare. She says she feels devastated at having missed out on family holiday time 
because of the issues with the car. 
Miss S says shes spent many hours on the phone to SMF trying to get things sorted. She 
says knowing someone is using this car without her permission has caused her to worry 
about what might happen if its caught doing something illegal, or if its involved in a fatal 
accident. She says shes worried the police may knock on her door because the cars still 
registered in her name. Shes told us she hasnt had a good nights sleep for many months 
due to the stress this situation has caused her. 
I think Miss S has been put to a significant amount of inconvenience over many months due 
to the car not being of satisfactory quality. Im satisfied that she spent a lot of time trying to 
obtain evidence for SMF after the car had been collected by the supplying dealer. 
Ive seen evidence that Miss S had to repeatedly chase for updates on where the car was 
and what was happening with it. Shes provided evidence showing she successfully 
appealed against the fine for the car being driven through a clean air zone. 
Having thought about the impact of this on Miss S, and the number of months its been going 
on for, I consider £450 to fairly reflect the distress and inconvenience shes been caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Specialist Motor Finance 
Limited to:
End the agreement and collect the car with nothing further for Miss S to pay,
Refund her £134 deposit,
Reimburse the £79 she paid on 7 October 2022 for the diagnostic report and health 
check,
Refund all monthly payments Miss S has made, retaining an amount for the period of 
use shes had of the car between 9 September 2022 and 1 November 2022. 
The retained amount should be no more than 90% of the amount that would 
otherwise have been payable under the terms of this agreement for that period.
Pay interest on each of the refunded payments, calculated from the date of each 
payment until the date of settlement at 8% simple per year. 
Pay Miss S £450 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes been 
caused,
Remove any adverse information thats been recorded on Miss Ss credit file about this agreement.
If SMF consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of the award, they should 
tell Miss S how much theyve taken off. They should also give her a tax deduction certificate 
if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if shes eligible. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman