DRN-3221027
The complaint
Mr B complains that Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk acted irresponsibly 
when lending to him. 
What happened
Savvy provided Mr B with a loan as follows:
Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidMonthly 
InstalmentsLoan 
AmountMonthly 
Repayment
08/05/2021 outstanding 15 £2,000.00 £266.66
When Mr B first complained to Savvy, it didnt uphold his complaint, so he brought his 
complaint to this Service.  
Mr B mainly said that Savvy didnt do proper checks before it provided him with the loan and 
had it done so it would have seen multiple gambling transactions. Mr B believed that if Savvy 
had done proper checks it wouldve realised that the loan wouldnt be affordable for him and 
so it shouldnt have been provided.  
Our adjudicator thought that proportionate checks would most likely have shown that Mr Bs 
spending on online betting transactions was at least £1,300 amounting to more than 55% of 
his declared income of £2,250. This meant Mr B wouldnt have had enough money to make 
his loan repayments along with his other financial commitments. So our adjudicator upheld 
Mr Bs complaint and set out the steps she said Savvy should take to put things right.
Savvy disagreed with our adjudicators view. In summary, Savvy said it believed that the 
checks it did were proportionate, it saw nothing to suggest that more in-depth checks were 
needed before agreeing to lend and it didnt have any reason to think the loan wasnt 
affordable for Mr B as he had ample surplus income according to its affordability 
calculations. 
Savvy asked for an ombudsman review so this complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for Savvy to provide this loan to Mr B. 
Heres why I say this.
Savvy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B could repay 
the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Bs 
income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I 
think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Savvy should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Savvy was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Of 
course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. And in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments - as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Savvy told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr B. It asked him to provide details 
of his income and to tell Savvy what he normally spent each month. Savvy conducted an 
automated income verification to check what hed said about how much he earned and also 
carried out checks on Mr Bs credit file. Savvy also asked Mr B some additional searching 
questions to try and understand why someone with his apparent level of disposable income 
was applying for this loan. 
Based on what Mr B had told Savvy about his living arrangements and his financial situation, 
Savvy understood that he had ample disposable income each month and only limited 
responsibility for usual household costs. Its affordability assessment was based on Mr B 
having a total monthly income of £2,250 and a total monthly expenditure of around £959, 
including his existing debt repayments. Savvy worked out that this gave Mr B an available 
monthly surplus of approximately £1,290. So it was satisfied that, after paying the loan contractual payments of £266.66 per month, he would still have around £1,023 spare cash 
left.  
But Savvy expected Mr B would be paying the loan for the next 15 months. Despite Mr Bs 
apparently sound financial situation, I think this was a long enough loan term to go beyond 
what would be a reasonably foreseeable period to expect complete stability in his finances. 
So I think Savvy ought to have gone further in its affordability checks before agreeing to 
lend. I think Savvy should have taken steps to verify what Mr B was saying about his 
financial circumstances. Savvy hasnt shown me it did this. So I cant fairly say that it carried 
out a proportionate check before agreeing to lend to Mr B. 
Mr B has provided his bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what Savvy was 
likely to have found out. In the absence of other evidence, I think these give a useful insight 
into Mr Bs finances at the time. And had Savvy looked in more depth at Mr Bs finances it 
would likely have seen that he was facing serious problems managing his money. I think it 
would have learnt that Mr B was regularly spending significant amounts on what appear to 
be gambling transactions. I think, had it seen those transactions, that Savvy should have 
concluded that the extent of Mr Bs apparent gambling meant it was unlikely that he would 
be able to repay this loan in a sustainable manner.  
This means I dont think it was reasonable for Savvy to provide this loan.
In coming to my decision, I've taken into account that Savvy has supported its position by 
pointing to the fact that Mr B made each of his contractual payments in full and on time. But 
this doesnt necessarily mean that he was able to do so in a way that was sustainable for 
him. And this isnt enough to persuade me that the loan was sustainably affordable for Mr B. 
For these reasons Im upholding the complaint and Savvy should put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Savvy should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr B, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly 
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. 
If this wasnt a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or 
relative  assuming that was even possible. Or, he may have decided to approach a third-
party lender with the same application, or indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less 
borrowing). 
But even if he had done that, the information that would have been available to such a 
lender and how they would (or ought to have) treated an application which may or may not 
have been the same is now impossible to reconstruct accurately. From what Ive seen in this 
case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new 
lender would have been able to lend to Mr B in a compliant way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Savvys liability in this case for what Im satisfied 
it has done wrong and should put right.If Savvy has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. Otherwise, Savvy will need to liaise with the new debt owner to achieve 
the results outlined below and do the following:
A) add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything already 
refunded.
B) calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr B which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr B originally made the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled.
C) remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding loans, 
and treat any repayments made by Mr B as though they had been repayments of the 
principal. If this results in Mr B having made overpayments then Savvy should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Savvy should then 
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay this. If this results in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mr B. 
However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Savvy should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr B. Savvy shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of 
principal already written-off.
E) Whilst its fair that Mr Bs credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, its 
unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded about a loan 
that was unfairly provided. So Savvy should remove any adverse information recorded on 
Mr Bs credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Savvy to take off tax from this interest. Savvy must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint and Valour Finance Limited 
trading as Savvy.co.uk should take the steps Ive set out to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman