DRN-2234596
The complaint
Mr S complains that Trading 212 UK Limited trading as Trading 212 recovered 
approximately £72,000 from his Contract for Differences (CFD) account following a manifest 
error during a stock transfer. He says they didnt make any adjustments to the trades he 
closed to prevent losses which meant he suffered a loss.
What happened
Mr S held a CFD trading account with Trading 212. He held shares in Company A which was 
the subject of corporate action on 15 April 2020 and went through a stock split, meaning that 
he received 1 share for every 200 shares he held. On the same day, he noticed 
approximately £72,000 appear in his trading account. He says initially he felt he had got 
lucky with the shares as it had made so much money but upon investigation, he later 
realised that something had gone wrong. Instead it incorrectly showed 5000 shares  the old 
number of shares he held, which resulted in the profit funds showing in his account.
Mr S says he tried to contact Trading 212 several times with no success and became 
worried about the losses that were being incurred on the account. He says they suspended 
his account preventing him from opening further positions to counter the loss-making ones, 
and in an effort to prevent further losses he closed nine positions. This resulted in a loss of 
around £1400. 
He says Trading 212 recovered their funds from the account but didnt factor in the loss he 
had made as a result of their error. He finds it unfair that he has made the decision to close 
these positions because his account was suspended and the only action he could take was 
to close his positions. He says had it not been for the error they had made, he wouldnt have 
closed those positions and incurred those losses. He would like his losses paid back.
In response, Trading 212 say they took this action because the shares were affected by a 
manifest error during the stock transfer. They say the terms of the CFD account allow them 
to recover the funds that were paid into the account as a result of this error. They also say 
that Mr S made the choice to close these positions himself and dont think they should be 
held responsible for the decisions he himself made. They didnt uphold his complaint, so he 
brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator explained that her role in this complaint was to consider whether Trading 
212 had done anything wrong. She concluded that they had acted in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the agreement and wasnt persuaded by the arguments Mr S put 
forward. She didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr S didnt agree so this has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to re-assure Mr S that Ive had sight of all communications in this complaint, 
including all post view communications with the investigators. I may not comment on each 
point individually, but I have considered all the information. Having done so, I am not 
upholding this complaint. I will explain why.
It is not for this service to prescribe how a firm should run its business or operate its 
services. Our remit mainly relates to addressing alleged wrongdoings by firms and any 
detriments or loss allegedly associated to a complaint. The existence of a manifest error is 
not disputed here nor that the profit funds showing in Mr Ss account was as a result of this, 
so I wont explore this point further. The issues in dispute are the actions that followed after 
the manifest error and I will focus primarily on these and consider if there is any wrongdoing 
on Trading 212s part which has caused a loss.
Reclaiming funds
Trading 212 reclaimed a total of £72,101.34 from Mr Ss account. Term 6.8 of the agreement 
says:-
 If Manifest error in a specific quote is found, We shall be entitled at our discretion to cancel 
the Order and the relevant consequences  in terms of either a profit or a loss for You  
immediately upon detection of such Manifest error. We shall not be liable for any damages 
or consequential loss incurred by You as a result of such cancellation, except for damages 
resulting directly from our gross negligence or willful misconduct.
The terms clearly give them the discretion to reclaim any funds which are the subject of a 
manifest error and so I dont think theyve been unreasonable in reclaiming the funds from 
Mr Ss account. They were also not required to give him any notice of this.
Mr Ss losses
Mr S says Trading 212 have been unreasonable in the way they have applied their discretion 
in the terms of the agreement. He says that he didnt want to incur losses that he was unable 
to afford and the trading account was at a loss. He says that he was unable to open any 
opposite positions to counteract the losses as the account was suspended, and I can 
appreciate that this may have been a stressful situation for him particularly as he had written 
emails to Trading 212 which theyd failed to respond to. But as the account didnt accurately 
reflect his share holdings, they were within their rights to prevent Mr S from withdrawing 
funds from the account or trading with this money.
Im also minded to consider that he accepts he had become aware through his own research 
that the £72,000 profit in the account was there as a result of an error. The account was 
suspended exactly for this reason to prevent any trading on the account, so I dont 
necessarily see the need for him to take any preventative action to avoid losses on funds 
that he accepts wasnt his  particularly as this meant he would suffer a loss himself. There 
has been some question as to which point he became aware of the funds being added in 
error. The communications that Mr S has provided to us to date suggest he is someone that 
has a good understanding of the operations of CFDs and should have realised quickly that 
the funds would have been added in error. I have seen that Mr Ss account was the subject of a margin call before the manifest error. 
His account was already running with losses of £24.25. Ive also considered the various 
scenarios he suggested and understand that Mr S found himself in a difficult position and 
that the loss of £1400 as a result of closing his positions would have added to this. In 
addition, Trading 212 confirm that restrictions were placed on the account after he had 
already closed those positions over a period of two days. The scenarios Mr S presented are 
exactly this, hypothetical situations, and it is difficult to say with any certainty what would 
have happened if the positions hadnt been closed. So, Im not persuaded that the losses 
from closure of positions hes claiming were a direct result of the manifest error.
Overall, I consider that Trading 212 are entitled to apply their discretion outlined in the terms 
of the agreement to reclaim funds as a result of the manifest error, as they have done. From 
what Ive seen they have been fair and reasonable, and I am not persuaded that any 
wrongdoing on Trading 212s part has been established. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint against Trading 212 UK Limited 
trading as Trading 212.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman