DRN-3448701
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds decision to 
decline a theft claim Mr M made under his car insurance policy and the time it took to reach 
its decision. 
Mrs M is a named driver under the policy and represents Mr M in the complaint. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ms car was stolen outside their home in July 2021. Mr M made a claim to his 
insurer, Admiral.
Mr and Mrs M said they misplaced one of two sets of keys for the car around three weeks 
before the theft. They believe the key was misplaced somewhere in the home. They dont 
know if the lost key was used to steal their car. 
Admiral declined the claim as it said Mr M failed to protect the car from loss or damage. Mr 
M complained to Admiral but it said its decision was correct.
Mr and Mrs M asked us to look at Mr Ms complaint. Our Investigator initially thought Admiral 
hadnt acted reasonably in declining the claim  but would consider whether the policy 
wording which had been updated had been made available to Mr M before the theft. She 
didnt find Admiral had caused undue delay.
Admiral confirmed that the updated policy wording had been uploaded online for Mr M to 
view at renewal before the theft. Admiral said as Mr and Mrs M intended to ask a garage 
about changing the locks to the car in July 2021, this means they recognised there was a 
risk and didnt take steps to prevent the loss in the meantime. 
On further review the Investigator didnt recommend upholding Mr Ms complaint. She 
thought Admirals decision was reached reasonably. She found there was cover to replace 
lost keys under the policy.
Mrs M didnt agree. She says there is no new evidence to change our view. She says they 
only intended to ask about obtaining a replacement key for convenience  not because they 
believed there was a risk. Mrs M says they didnt consider claiming for lost keys under the 
policy as they believed the key was lost somewhere in the home. 
So Mr and Mrs M want an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral has provided a copy of the police report. This reads that Mrs M said she had lost the 
main car key some two weeks before the theft. 
Mrs M told Admirals Investigator that she had previously lost one key to the car around 
three weeks before the theft  and must have lost it at home somewhere, in the garden or 
close to it.  I havent seen anything to show the lost key has since been found. 
Admiral has provided a copy of the policy wording which sets out the following;
If an incident happens, which is directly or indirectly caused or contributed to by any 
of the following:
the inappropriate conduct of the driver
the condition of your vehicle
your vehicle being left unlocked or unsecured.
No cover under the policy will be given and instead our responsibility will be restricted 
to meeting the obligations as required by Road Traffic Law
Admirals policy also provides cover in the event of a key being lost or stolen. Admirals 
policy says:
Lost or stolen keys
If you lose your vehicles keys, or any other ignition device, or they are stolen from 
somewhere other than your vehicle, we will pay up to £300 towards the cost of 
replacing the locks and keys.
Once we agree to your claim, you must pay to have your locks and keys replaced 
and we will reimburse you up to £300.
If you only claim under this benefit, you do not have to pay an excess and your No 
Claims Bonus will not be affected.
I understand Mrs M says the intention to ask about a replacement key with a garage for 
unrelated repair work was not due to any perceived risk of the car being stolen. But - taking 
everything into account  I think it was fair for Admiral to conclude that there was a 
reasonable expectation of a risk of theft. And the policy provided cover to help Mr and Mrs M 
take steps to secure the insured vehicle in the event of keys being lost or stolen. I havent 
seen anything to show such steps were taken. And so I dont think Admirals decision to 
reject the claim was unreasonable on the basis that Mr and Mrs M failed to safeguard the 
car. I think Admiral has fairly applied its exclusion in this case.
Admiral required further information from the police and its Investigator in order to consider 
the claim. I dont think it caused undue delay as the wait time for some of the information it 
asked for was outside of its control.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M. Ive no doubt that having their car stolen  and 
then having the claim declined  has caused considerable worry and upset. But I think 
Admiral has acted reasonably and in line with the policy when declining the claim. So Im not 
asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman