DRN-1985130
 
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that Virgin Money plc allowed a fraudulent account to be opened in 
her name.
What happened
In June 2018, someone opened an account with Virgin using Mrs Ps details.
In July 2019, Mrs P received a letter about the account. She reported to Virgin that it was a 
fraudulent account. Virgin investigated, then four days later they confirmed the fraud. They 
took the account out of Mrs Ps name and closed it. They misspelled Mrs Ps details on 
some correspondence. They offered Mrs P £50 compensation for what happened.
Mrs P felt it was wrong for Virgin to open the account in the first place. Shes asked for more 
compensation. Virgin felt what theyd offered was fair.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
explained that Virgin had followed their relevant account opening process, and had 
investigated and resolved the issue four days after it was reported. So she thought Virgins 
offer was fair.
Mrs P didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
 Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I will say that I understand Mrs P has been the victim of a crime here, and so she has 
my sympathy. I can imagine that the fraudsters have caused her a good deal of distress.
I understand that Mrs P is unhappy with Virgins account opening processes in general. As 
our investigator explained, its the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) who 
looks at the overall regulation of businesses and their processes. I cant comment on Virgins 
procedures as a whole  Im only able to look at complaints about individual situations.
In this particular situation, my main concern is whether Mrs P lost out financially because of 
what happened. But thankfully, it looks like she did not suffer any significant financial loss 
from the fraud here. That leaves the issue of the stress Mrs P went through.
When it comes to the amount of compensation Id award, its worth bearing in mind that the 
actions of the fraudster, rather than Virgin, will have been responsible for a significant part of 
Mrs Ps distress and inconvenience. Its also worth bearing in mind that were here to resolve 
complaints, and not to issue large fines or punish businesses.
Further, it looks like Virgin acted quite quickly in investigating things and making sure that 
Mrs P wasnt negatively affected.
Taking everything into account, I agree with our investigator that the £50 Virgin have already 
offered is fair. Virgin should pay this to Mrs P, if they havent done so already.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2020. 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman