DRN-2640696
The complaint
Mr C and the estate of Mrs C complain that Santander UK plc mis-sold a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mr C and the late Mrs C in 2005 in 
connection with a mortgage theyd arranged in 1998. The policy provided Mr C with cover if 
he couldnt work because of accident or sickness.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr C and the estate of Mrs C disagreed with 
the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr C and the estate of Mrs Cs case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Santander gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Cs needs?
- Did Santander give Mr and Mrs C the information they needed to decide whether to
take out the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
C and the estate of Mrs C are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done 
something different  such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems 
with the sale?
Ive concluded Mr and Mrs Cs PPI policy wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below.
Santander has provided evidence of a phone interview it held with Mr C, to assess his 
insurance requirements. The following information was recorded for Mr C:
If I was unable to work through accident or sickness I would be unable to pay my mortgage 
and related bills.
If I became involuntary unemployed I would be able to pay my monthly mortgage payments 
and related bills.
Following the phone interview Santander sent Mr and Mrs C a letter that said:
We identified that you wouldnt be able to afford your monthly mortgage and related 
outgoings if you couldnt work through accident or sickness.
I recommend you take out an Abbey Paymentcare policy to cover your monthly mortgage 
and related outgoings, if you were unable to work through Accident or Sickness to meet your 
needs as identified above.
The letter also recorded that Mr and Mrs C accepted Santanders recommendation to take 
the policy.
So from what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Santander discussed the PPI with Mr and Mrs C 
and made them aware it was optional. As such, I think they knew they had a choice about 
buying the cover. 
Santander accepts that it advised Mr and Mrs C to take out the policy and it doesnt look like 
it was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say 
this because:
- Mr C was eligible for cover, given the policy terms and conditions.
- Mr C says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work because 
of sickness or accident, although he cant remember how much. But the policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Cs employer sick pay, and would have allowed 
Mr and Mrs C to use those benefits to cover other expenses. So I think Mr and Mrs C 
would have had some use for the policy, despite their existing arrangements.
- Mr C wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main
benefits, such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing
medical conditions. As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I
think it unlikely he and Mrs C needed better advice or information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations.
- I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr and Mrs C
before they agreed to buy it. But Mr and Mrs C took out the policy knowing they
would have to pay something for it. It seems the policy was competitively priced and
apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs C would have made a
different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr C wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs C 
would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I 
think they would still have taken out the policy.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and the 
estate of Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman