DRN-1303009
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that the Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax Building Society (Halifax) didnt 
follow his instructions on maturity of his Online Saver Account (OSA). 
Background
Mr P held an OSA which had an investment period of 12 months and paid an interest rate of 
1%.  On its maturity it converted to an Instant Saver Account with a variable rate of interest. 
Halifax sent Mr P a maturity letter for the OSA. 
Mr P says he gave maturity instructions to Halifax in a phone call. Halifax says it didnt 
receive any instructions. 
The case was brought to this service and was looked at by our Investigator who didnt 
uphold it. He felt that there was no evidence that Mr P gave any instructions before or after 
the OSA matured. 
Mr P disagreed with the Investigators conclusions and the case has now been referred to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision.
 My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator for much the same reasons. 
The terms and conditions of the OSA explain that on maturity it reverts to an Instant Saver 
Account.  Before that Halifax sent a letter explaining what options were available to Mr P. 
The options offered were choosing another savings option, renewing the OSA or to continue 
with the Instant Saver. At that time the Instant Saver Account and OSA offered the same 
rate of interest. I have obtained a copy of a computer print from Halifax which references the 
letter being sent to Mr P with his account details and name. Im satisfied, on balance, this 
maturity letter was sent out to Mr P.   
Whilst Mr P has provided various dates of calls made to Halifax, none of these are at a time 
leading up to the maturity of the account. All of the calls listed by Mr P, apart from one, were 
not recorded as these were made directly to his branch. Halifax say the calls listed by Mr P 
are not long enough to enable a new account instruction, given the process involved. Ive 
given this some thought, Mr P would have had to go through security checks then be 
transferred to a new department, be given options of accounts available and complete the 
account opening process. On this basis, on balance Im satisfied the calls listed by Mr P 
wouldnt have been long enough to give new account instructions for the maturity of the OSA 
. 
The one recorded call I had available to me, which was after the maturity of the OSA, didnt 
include any instructions for the deposit from Mr P. During the call Mr P is not entirely sure 
about the type of account he has although did go on to say that the account was paying .25% and was an online account.  I consider this to be important as in the letter sent to 
customers before maturity it said  the new Instant Saver Account would pay a variable rate 
of .25%. On this basis I am satisfied, on balance, the maturity letter was received by Mr P.
During the call Mr P was informed that the account is paying a much lower rate than .25% 
and he seemed surprised at this and said he needed the account to pay a higher rate.  Mr P 
does mention another bank offering a much better rate. The member of staff suggested he 
could call back if he needed to discuss it further, but did agree the rate Mr P had quoted was 
something they couldnt match. No calls have been made back by Mr P. 
I can sympathise if Mr P thought his deposit was earning a better rate. Also, he believed he 
gave instructions regarding the deposit, but Im satisfied, for the reasons Ive already 
explained , no instructions have been given by Mr P.
Mr P feels that all calls should be recorded by Halifax, Im satisfied that calls made to Halifax 
regarding instructions for new accounts or account issues are recorded. This is what 
happened in the call  described earlier in my findings.   
I know that Mr P will be disappointed with my decision but I cant see that I can ask anymore 
of Halifax here. 
I do feel that Mr P should accept Halifax offer of £50 as a result of poor customer service in 
not returning a phone call. This seems to me to be fair and reasonable.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 
24 April 2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman