DRN-3353886
The complaint
Mr B complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) and about the redress theyve offered to put things 
right.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
I dont think theres any dispute this car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Ive seen a breakdown 
of the significant faults identified with it only a short period after it was supplied to Mr B and I 
can see that Moneybarn accepted it wasnt commercially viable to repair the car. They 
agreed to accept its rejection, take the car back, and end the finance agreement. Id agree 
that, in the circumstances, this was a reasonable approach.
What is in dispute is the redress that Moneybarn offered Mr B to resolve matters.
Putting things right
Moneybarn offered to refund the payment Mr B had made towards his finance and given the 
very limited use Mr B had from the car I think that was reasonable. But as Mr B had, in 
effect, been deprived of that money I think Moneybarn should add interest to the refund.
Moneybarn also agreed to arrange for Mr B to get his deposit back but again, as Mr B had 
been deprived of that money they should also pay some interest on that refund.
Moneybarn offered Mr B £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hed 
experienced but I dont think that was enough. I can see Mr B was without a car to drive his 
family about over the Christmas period and that there were unnecessary delays approving 
the rejection of the car whilst the business considered whether it could be repaired. In the 
circumstances I would agree with the investigator that Moneybarn should pay Mr B a further 
£200 in compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint. In addition to ending the finance 
agreement, allowing rejection of the car, and collecting it, Moneybarn No.1 Limited must:
Pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts above from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Mr B further compensation of £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Remove any adverse information they may have reported to Mr Bs credit file in 
relation to this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman