DRN-2673412
The complaint
Miss R complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined her pet insurance claim. My 
references to Great Lakes include its agents. 
What happened
Miss R took out pet insurance for her dog on 29 June 2020, insured by Great Lakes. On that 
date Miss R had a phone conversation with an animal behaviourist about her dogs 
behaviour and had a consultation on the 9 July 2020. Miss R claimed on the policy for the 
cost.
Great Lakes declined the claim. Initially Great Lakes said a vet hadnt diagnosed the dog 
had a behavioural problem before Miss R sought treatment with a behaviourist so there was 
no cover under the policy terms.
Miss Rs vet then wrote to Great Lakes about the claim decline. The vet said at a 
consultation in August 2019 shed strongly advised Miss R the dog needed to see a 
behaviourist due to his aggressive behaviour but she wasnt a qualified behaviourist so was 
unable to diagnose the conditions of aggression or jealousy. 
Great Lakes then said the vets evidence meant the dogs behavioural problem was a pre-
existing condition, which the policy didnt cover, and declined the claim on that basis.
Miss R complained to us. In summary she said:
her dogs behavioural condition claimed for was different to the behavioural condition  
referred to in her dogs vet records so it wasnt a pre-existing condition
her vet had told Great Lakes she wasnt a qualified behaviourist so a behavioural 
diagnosis by the vet couldnt be relied on to be a pre-exiting condition.
Miss R wants Great Lakes to pay the claim. She said shes already paid £475 to the 
behaviourist as thought the policy would cover. She also said that how Great Lakes dealt 
with the claim had given her considerable stress and she was now struggling with her credit 
cards being near the limits which affected her ability to get credit products.
Our investigator said Great Lakes had fairly declined the claim.
Miss R disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She added that she thought the 
policy was flawed as if a vet wasnt a qualified behaviourist they werent in a position to 
diagnose a behavioural condition. Miss R wants me to recommend the policy wording 
change so that the diagnosis had to be by a qualified behaviourist rather than a vet.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to decide whether Great Lakes fairly and reasonably declined Miss Rs claim for 
either of the reasons it gave, and I think it did. I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy says If your pet is diagnosed with a behavioural condition by a vet Great Lakes  
will pay the treatment costs for up to six months after diagnosis to the specified limit.
But the policy is clear that Great Lakes will not pay for any costs relating to pre-existing 
conditions. The policy defines pre-existing condition as anything your pet has had 
treatment, medication or advice for in the last 24 months.
Miss Rs dogs vet records show that when the vet saw the dog in August 2019 the vet 
recorded as prev(iously) is very difficult to handle and strongly adv(ised) behaviourists. 
The vet records for dates before August 2019 say Miss Rs dog had been very difficult to 
handle and attempting to snap.
I think its clear that in the last 24 months before Miss R took out the policy shed been 
strongly advised by the vet that her dog should see a behaviourist. On a strict reading of the 
policy terms the behavioural problem was a pre-existing condition.
Ive also considered whether its fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to say the behavioural 
problem was a pre-existing condition. Miss R says her dog being difficult to handle was a 
separate condition to the diagnosis from the behaviourist  in summary that the dog 
developed a conditioned emotional fear response to other dogs together with generalised 
anxiety. Miss R also says her vets diagnosis couldnt be relied on to be a pre-existing 
condition as the vet wasnt a qualified behaviourist.
I think its useful to set out the detail of what Miss Rs vet wrote to Great Lakes, which is as 
follows:
I understand that you have rejected the submitted claim  for behavioural referral 
and subsequent treatment on the basis that I have not diagnosed (dogs name) 
behavioural condition. I have attached (dogs name) clinical record which has notes 
at every appointment regarding his aggressive behaviour and the extreme measures 
that we have needed to take to perform clinical examinations and administer 
treatments. In a consultation on 13/08/2019 my clinical notes state that I strongly adv 
behaviourists and adv is a shortening of the word advise for note taking purposes. I 
am not a qualified behaviourist and am therefore unable to diagnose the conditions of 
aggression or jealousy, but I did perform a clinical exam and found no physical cause 
for his behaviour, hence recommending referral. In my professional opinion a 
qualified behaviourist is better able to diagnose specific behavioural conditions than a 
first opinion vet and that is why I advised (Miss R) to seek specialist help with (dogs 
name). I consider my consultation in August 2019 and my completion of the referral 
form in July 2020 as evidence of my diagnosis that (dogs name) has a behavioural 
condition and rely on the specialists in this field to make the specific diagnosis, just 
as I would for a complex medical or oncology case.
So the vets evidence shows that having seen the dogs aggressive behaviour she did feel 
qualified to diagnose that the dog had a behavioural condition and was referring to a 
specialist for a specific diagnosis. The evidence also shows that her advice to Miss R in 
August 2019 for the dog to see a behaviourist and the referral she made in July 2020 arose 
from the dogs behaviour shed seen at the August 2019 and previous consultations. Theres 
no evidence that the behaviour the vet saw in August 2019 and earlier was completely unrelated to the specific diagnosis the behaviourist made.
I think Great Lakes reasonably understood that the dogs behavioural problem seen and 
advised on by the vet before the policy started was part of his overall behavioural problem. It 
fairly concluded that the vets strong advice for the dog to see a behaviourist in August 2019, 
well before the policy started in June 2020, meant the dog had a pre-existing condition.
As I think Great Lakes fairly declined the claim on the basis that Miss Rs dogs behaviour 
problem was a pre-existing condition Ive no need to decide if Great Lakes could also fairly 
decline the claim for the other reason it gave. 
Miss R asked that I tell Great Lakes to change the policy wording so that diagnosis of a 
behavioural condition has to be by a qualified behaviourist rather than a vet. Its for an 
insurer to decide what risks it wants to insure and I cant tell an insurer to change its policy 
wording to rely on one type of expert rather than another. However the point doesnt change 
my decision that Great Lakes fairly declined the claim for the reasons Ive given above.
Im sorry Miss R was stressed and has financial difficulties due to Great Lakes declining the 
claim. But as I think Great Lakes handling and decline of the claim was reasonable Ive no 
basis to say it should pay the claim or pay compensation to Miss R for distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman