DRN-2749402
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, increased the credit 
limit on his credit account when it was such that this increased credit limit was unaffordable 
for him at that time.  
What happened
Mr J had a credit account with Barclays with a credit limit of £800. In May 2016, Barclays 
increased Mr Js credit limit to £2400.
In October 2020, Mr J raised a complaint about this credit limit increase to Barclays. Mr J felt 
that Barclays should never have offered the credit limit to him because it wasnt affordable 
for him at that time, and that this would have evident to Barclays if theyd conducted 
appropriate checks into his financial situation at that time.
Barclays looked at Mr Js complaint, but they felt that they had conducted reasonable and 
proportionate checks into Mr Js financial situation before offering him the credit limit 
increase, and that those checks had demonstrated that the credit limit increase would be 
affordable for him. So, they didnt uphold Mr Js complaint.
Mr J wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They acknowledged that Barclays had 
gathered information about Mr Js financial circumstances before offering the credit limit 
increase to him, but they werent satisfied that Barclays had done enough to confirm whether 
the information that they had gathered was accurate, especially considering that this 
information was primarily gathered from third party sources and not from Mr J himself. 
Importantly, our investigator felt that if Barclays had gathered the information from Mr J 
directly then it was likely that their decision to offer the credit limit increase to Mr J would 
have been impacted.
Out investigator also felt that Barclays hadnt taken due consideration of how Mr J had 
managed his credit account with them in the months leading up to the credit limit increase, 
including that Mr J had breached his existing credit limit on the account immediately prior to 
the credit limit offer being increased. So, our investigator recommended that the complaint 
be upheld in Mr Js favour and that Barclays should take restorative action, including 
reimbursing interest and fees incurred on the account since the credit limit increase as well 
as removing relevant adverse information from Mr Js credit file.
Barclays didnt agree with the recommendations put forward by our investigator, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer and on what terms, and 
a business is entitled to offer a credit limit increase to an existing customer if it can be 
demonstrated that the customer can afford to accept the credit limit increase such that the 
customers financial position wont be materially worsened by the increased line of credit 
being made available to them.
What this service would expect in such circumstances would be that a business would take 
reasonable and proportionate checks to assess whether the customer, in this case Mr J, 
could afford to accept the credit limit before the credit limit is offered to them.
In their response to this service, Barclays have stated that the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) allows firms to set their own procedures for a creditworthiness assessment, and that 
the FCA also allows firms to take reasonable steps to determine the amount of a reasonable 
estimate of the customers income and expenditure, and in doing so, firms can take into 
account statistical data.
However, its also the case that businesses should conduct affordability checks that are 
customer focussed, and given that Barclays were offering a three-fold increase in Mr Js 
credit limit here, this increase is of such a large amount, relatively speaking, that Id expect 
Barclays to have taken proportionate steps to comply with the affordability assessment 
requirements here. So, while Mr Js increase may have been subject to all of Barclays usual 
checks, I still have to consider whether this led to a fair outcome in the individual 
circumstances here.
Having reviewed the information that Barclays gathered from third party sources and 
comparing this with other information which would have been available to Barclays at the 
time, such as Mr Js testimony regarding his financial circumstances, its difficult not to 
conclude that the information gathered by Barclays didnt provide them with an accurate 
understanding of Mr Js financial position at the time of the creditworthiness assessment.
What Ive noticed here is that the credit limit increase was offered on the basis of what 
Barclays own checks revealed. Barclays didnt take any steps to verify that information with 
Mr J or to speak with him about it. I accept that Barclays felt that the information that they 
gained through their own process meant that the credit was affordable for Mr J. But in my 
view, I think it wouldve been proportionate to take extra steps here, given the amount of 
credit they were giving Mr J access to and what the information showed in relation to this.
For instance, Barclays estimated Mr Js living costs in the months preceding the credit limit 
increase offer as being approximately £630 per month. Barclays are entitled to use an 
estimate like this, but as with any estimate, there is the risk that it might not be fully accurate. 
Here, I think Barclays shouldve thought twice about relying on that. 
I say that because the estimated monthly living cost figure of £630 is used by Barclays in 
their ongoing assessment of Mr J full the full time period that Barclays have provided 
information to this service for  from March 2015 to February 2020. And it seems, in a 
general sense, unrealistic to consider that an individuals living costs would remain static and 
unchanged for so long. This isnt to say that the estimate was incorrect at the time of the 
credit limit increase offer in 2016, but it does provide cause to consider that it might be 
incorrect, and that a more accurate monthly living cost figure could have been obtained from 
Mr J directly.
Had Barclays approached Mr J directly when gathering information for the creditworthiness 
assessment, I feel that its likely that their decision to offer such a significant credit limit 
increase to Mr J might have been impacted. And I say this because of Mr Js personal and financial circumstances at that time, including that Mr J was single, with two dependent 
children, and was making monthly payments to short-term lending companies as well as 
servicing the balances of a number of other existing debts.
Barclays have explained to this service that the information that they gathered confirmed that 
Mr J didnt take any loans in the six months prior to the credit limit increase. But Mr J has 
provided bank statements to this service which show that he was actively servicing a number 
of loans from payday loan providers at the time that the credit limit increase was offered. 
This doesnt appear to have been considered in the information Barclays gathered about the 
affordability and sustainability of the debt here. But I think its likely it wouldve been if 
Barclays had asked more questions or spoken to Mr J about his circumstances.
Barclays also had the benefit of being able to assess Mr Js usage of the credit account in 
the months leading up to the credit limit increase offer in May 2016. However, its evident 
that in April 2016  the month before the credit limit increase was offered - Mr J took the 
account over the £800 credit limit that was available on the account at that time. 
Its difficult to not feel that Mr J exceeding his credit limit in this manner at this time, when 
considered alongside everything else Ive mentioned here, should have given Barclays a 
clear indication that Mr J might not be in the financial position that they estimated him to be 
in, and that an immediate threefold increase in his credit limit might not be appropriate. 
Barclays have advised that the reason that this was missed was because the 
creditworthiness assessment was conducted in March 2016. But again, this doesnt mean 
that led to a fair outcome here or that it wouldnt have been proportionate to check what the 
situation was a couple of months later, when the credit limit increase was given. If it was, 
then this would have been yet another reason that I think Barclays shouldve though twice 
about the limit increase here.
All of which means that Im satisfied that Barclays didnt undertake reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that the increased credit limit that they offered to Mr J was 
affordable for him at that time, and Im similarly satisfied that if they had, its likely to have 
been the case that their decision to offer the higher credit limit to Mr J would have impacted. 
It follows from that I will be upholding this complaint in Mr Js favour and instructing Barclays 
to take restorative action, as described below.
Putting things right
Barclays must recall or repurchase Mr Js account from the agency it now sits with and 
reimburse to that account all interest and charges applied from the time of the credit limit 
increase in May 2016 to date in relation to the credit balance on the account above £800.
If these reimbursements result in a credit balance in Mr Js favour, Barclays must pay this to 
Mr J along with 8% simple interest calculated from the dates of the interest or charges being 
reimbursed to the date of payment.
If an outstanding balance remains payable by Mr J, Barclays must arrange a suitable 
repayment plan with Mr J based on his income and expenditure at this time.
Barclays must remove all adverse reporting from Mr Js credit file that relates to this account 
subsequent to the credit limit increase in May 2016.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint again Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard, on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman