DRN-2236839
The complaint
Mr C complains that TSB Bank plc would not let him make a large cash withdrawal.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr C tried to withdraw £7,000 in cash at a branch of TSB. TSB asked him what 
he needed the money for, and he told them it was to buy a car. TSB asked for proof of the 
intended purchase, and asked him questions about the car, but he was unable to provide 
this or answer the questions as he had not yet settled on a particular car. So TSB declined to 
give him the money, which it says was a measure to protect Mr C from potential fraud.
Mr C did not accept this explanation. He spent the next few days withdrawing the money in 
instalments from an ATM, £500 at a time, which he says was inconvenient and risky. He 
complained, saying that TSB should have just given him his money, and not forced him to 
use an ATM instead. He said this had not been an unusual transaction, given his account 
history. He suggested that TSBs decision had been unduly influenced by the outcome of a 
previous complaint about a similar issue, which he had taken to this Service, in which 
another ombudsmans final decision had said that TSB had done nothing wrong. He also 
complained that TSBs final response letter in answer to his complaint was condescending, 
and made him feel as though he was being dictated to like a child.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said that TSB had followed its anti-fraud 
policy and that it had been entitled to withhold the money. She thought that TSB could have 
phrased its letter differently, but she did not think that it was bad enough to uphold a 
complaint over. Mr C did not accept that opinion, and so this complaint had been referred to 
me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties do not agree about whether the intended withdrawal was usual or unusual for 
the account, but I do not think I need to decide that issue. Even if the intended withdrawal 
was not unusual, I still dont think it was unreasonable of TSB to ask Mr C questions about it 
with a view to ascertaining whether he was about to be defrauded. Banks have a duty to 
protect their customers from fraud, or potential fraud, and TSBs action was proportionate 
and standard industry practice.
The Financial Ombudsman Service regularly receives complaints from customers who 
actually have been defrauded, complaining that their banks did not do enough to alert them 
to the risk of fraud or to protect them from fraudsters, or from themselves. So banks have a 
balancing act to perform, between making it to difficult for customers to access their money 
and making it too easy. Inevitably, that will sometimes mean that a customer is denied 
access to their money in a case where in fact no fraud was taking place, and that cannot 
always be helped. It is still better than the possible alternative. For that reason I think it is fair 
that I allow TSB a margin of leeway to decide for itself, on a case by case basis, how much 
to interfere and how to react when it is not satisfied with the answers or evidence its 
customers are able to provide. As long as such decisions are made rationally, in good faith 
and in line with the banks policy, I do not think it is right that I should interfere.
Mr C may well disagree with my approach, but I have taken into account the fact that when 
someone does make a cash purchase and then does not receive what they paid for, they 
have fewer remedies than they would have had if they had paid by some other means. A 
bank will often be in a better position to help if payment has been made by a debit card or 
credit card, or sometimes even just by a bank transfer, since sometimes the funds may still 
be recovered. With cash there is nothing a bank can do after the event, so the banks only 
opportunity to help its customer is to prevent him from withdrawing the cash in the first place, 
unless and until it is satisfied that there is nothing untoward about the intended purchase.
I have read the final decision of my ombudsman colleague in the earlier complaint. It does 
not say that TSB should never allow Mr C to make another large withdrawal ever again, but 
it does say that TSB is entitled to withhold his money if it has a legitimate concern about the 
risk of fraud. TSB denies that its branch staff were aware of that ombudsmans decision 
when they decided to decline this withdrawal, and says that it made its decision about the 
second withdrawal independently. I have seen no evidence to suggest otherwise. But even if 
TSB had taken that ombudsmans decision into account, there would be nothing wrong with 
that, because regulations made by the Financial Conduct Authority specifically state that 
banks can learn lessons from reading ombudsmens decisions.1
For the above reasons, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint about being denied access to his 
money, or about being forced to use the ATM instead. It was his choice to use the ATM; TSB 
would still have allowed him to withdraw his money all at once if he had come back with the 
information it had asked him for.
Finally, I do not think there was anything wrong with the tone or wording of TSBs final 
response letter. I have read and assessed all of the letter, but I have paid particular attention 
to one paragraph which Mr C singled out for our attention. That paragraph reads as follows:
Wed like you to know we dont put up with abusive behaviour or threatening and 
inappropriate language. Moving forward we expect you behave in the way youd 
expect bank staff to behave towards you.
I agree with all of that and I dont think there is anything wrong with the way it has been 
expressed.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
1 See regulations DISP 1.3.2A and DISP 1.4.2 at 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/1/?view=chapter