DRN-3453252
The complaint
Miss S says Loans 2 Go Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about a fixed sum loan provided by Loans 2 Go to Miss S in September 
2019. The loan was for £600 and was to be repaid by Miss S over 18 months. There is a 
balance that remains to be paid.
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Ss complaint and thought Loans 2 Go didnt do 
anything wrong when it gave her the loan. Miss S disagreed and the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss Ss complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss S would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way and without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss S wouldve been able to do so?
2.Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Ss ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable and cause significant adverse consequences for 
Miss S. In practice this meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the 
loan wouldnt cause Miss S undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss S. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ss complaint.
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss S 
would be able to repay loan/s without experiencing significant adverse consequences?
Loans 2 Go has provided evidence to show that before lending to Miss S it carried out a 
credit check and asked her for details about her income and expenditure. It verified Miss Ss 
income and also went through the credit check to look through Miss Ss credit commitments. 
It then calculated what it thought was Miss Ss disposable income to see if the loan 
repayments were affordable. Based on those checks Loans 2 Go thought it was fair to lend.
Based on the amount that Miss S borrowed, the repayment and term of loan, I think the 
checks were reasonable and proportionate. Those checks suggested to Loans 2 Go the loan 
was affordable and Miss S could sustain the repayments over the term. There is an 
arrangement to pay that Loans 2 Go would have seen in the credit check it carried out but I 
dont think this would have given it concerns about Miss Ss ability to repay this loan, as she 
seemed to be able to repay what had been agreed. 
I appreciate Miss S has said, through her representatives, that the loan was unaffordable 
and that she had difficulties with her finances. But I dont think this is something Loans 2 Go 
knew or ought to have known about from what I consider to be proportionate checks. 
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive also thought about whether Loans 2 Go acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Miss Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept or reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman