DRN-4109013
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the way Avantia Insurance Limited sold and renewed his home 
insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr C took out home insurance through Avantia in 2019. It was underwritten by an 
insurer, X. The policy renewed in 2020 and 2021.
Prior to the next renewal, Mr C got in touch with X to make a claim. X accepted the 
claim but sought to reduce the settlement on the basis Mr C had underinsured the 
outbuildings. It offered to pay around 37% of the claim value.
Mr C didnt think this was fair. He said he hadnt been made aware prior to the claim 
that he was underinsured.
Avantia said when it sold the policy it had specifically asked Mr C about the rebuild 
cost for his property and outbuildings. And it gave him guidance about how the word 
outbuildings was defined in Xs policy. After the sale and at the renewals, it had 
clearly set out how much cover Mr C had for his outbuildings  and he hadnt asked 
to increase the sum insured.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said Avantia hadnt 
been clear at the renewals about what the sum insured should cover. So it hadnt met 
its duty to ask clear questions and provide clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the policy to Mr C. She said this had contributed to delays during Mr Cs claim 
with X and asked Avantia to pay £100 compensation to him for that.
Mr C agreed with what our investigator said. Avantia didnt. It reiterated its earlier 
points. That didnt change our investigators mind.
A separate complaint has been considered against X. In brief, its been upheld on the 
basis that X should pay 93% of the claim value.
This complaint is solely about the acts and omissions of Avantia in its role as broker 
when it arranged the policy each year.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurer sells a policy directly to the consumer, its responsible for gathering 
information from the consumer that it considers relevant  such as the rebuild cost for 
outbuildings.
When a broker sells or renews a policy, its responsible for gathering that information 
from the consumer and passing it to the insurer. Its required to provide information 
thats clear, fair and not misleading. That includes asking clear and relevant 
questions and explaining and sufficiently highlighting to Mr C steps he must take in 
order to provide the right information to the insurer. These duties apply at the sale 
and all subsequent renewals.
X wanted to know how much it would cost to completely rebuild all Mr Cs 
outbuildings. Within the policy booklet, this word is defined so its full meaning is 
explained. It says it includes, amongst other things, detached garages, sheds, 
fences, driveways and patios. Ill go on to consider whether Avantia gave Mr C 
sufficient information and guidance to provide that information.
During the sale in 2019, Mr C was asked:
Your policy includes £7,500 cover for rebuilding or repairing all detached 
outbuildings. Is this sufficient?
Mr C selected the yes button. This question doesnt make clear that Mr C is required 
to estimate the cost of rebuilding the outbuildings and provide that figure. I think it 
gives the impression that Mr C can choose to be covered for up to £7,500 in the 
event of damage to his outbuildings and its up to him to decide whether this is 
sufficient for his needs.
As displayed online, the word outbuildings wasnt defined. There is a question mark 
next to the question which, when pressed, reveals more information about it. But it 
doesnt appear Mr C was required to press it in order to proceed. That means he may 
not have seen the extra information, so Im not persuaded it would be fair to take it 
into account.
But even if he did see it and/or was required to press the question mark to proceed, 
there were two renewals between the sale and the claim. The 2021 renewal is most 
relevant as its the one prior to the claim.
At that time, Mr C was asked to check the information provided by Avantia and let it 
know if anything had changed. The information included:
Outbuildings cover
Sum Insured: £7,500
See Section 1 in your policy booklet
There are no other statements or any questions about the outbuildings cover. There 
is no further explanation about what the word outbuildings means or what Mr C 
should think about when deciding if £7,500 is a reasonable amount.
Even if Mr C had seen more information about this online in 2019, I dont think it 
would be reasonable to expect him to remember the detail of it two years later.
I dont think Avantia conveyed to Mr C what X wanted to know at the renewal. It didnt 
mention the full meaning of the word outbuildings and nor did it set out that Mr C 
needed to provide the full cost of rebuilding them. It effectively left it open to Mr C to interpret what outbuildings meant and to set a figure he was happy to insure them 
for.
Avantia says that Mr C was directed to the full policy booklet during the renewal. So 
he ought to have been aware what was meant by the word outbuildings.
I agree its important for policyholders to read the full document, as this forms the 
contract of insurance. But I dont think directing policyholders to read the document 
amounts to asking a clear question or highlighting key information, in line with a 
brokers duties.
Had Mr C followed the statement I quoted above, he would have gone to Section 1  
which is the buildings cover. It doesnt include the definition for outbuildings. So he 
would have had to seek out the definitions section to find it. I dont think thats a 
reasonable expectation to place on a consumer. And Im not satisfied it fulfils 
Avantias requirement set out above.
I take into account that even if Mr C had been aware of the full definition of 
outbuildings, X also wanted to know how much it would cost to rebuild them in full. 
Avantias policy documents asked Mr C for a sum insured  and didnt explain what 
this phrase meant.
Its not a phrase with one single, commonly understood meaning. Without any further 
explanation, I think most people would consider it to mean the amount Im choosing 
to insure something for or similar. So again, I dont think Avantia fulfilled its 
requirement.
Overall, having considered the way Avantia arranged the policy, Im not satisfied it 
provided clear information and took sufficient steps to ensure Mr C provided the 
information X wanted to know. As a result, when the claim was made with X, Mr C 
found his outbuildings werent sufficiently insured. X has reduced his claim 
settlement, so hes lost out financially.
Had Avantia treated Mr C fairly at the 2021 renewal, and explained what Mr C 
needed to do to ensure he would be fully covered in the event of a claim, I think its 
likely he would have insured his outbuildings for a higher amount. That means 
Avantia caused him to lose out financially. I also think it contributed to Mr Cs 
inconvenience during the claim.
In these circumstances, Im satisfied it would be fair for Avantia to pay Mr Cs 
financial loss. X thought it would cost £2,040 to put right the damage. After reducing 
the claim to 93% of its value and deducting the £400 excess, it will pay Mr C 
£1,497.20. Were it not for the reduction, it would have paid £1,640. So Mr Cs 
financial loss as a result of the way Avantia arranged the policy is £142.80. Bearing 
in mind hes unfairly been without that money for over a year, I think it would be 
reasonable to increase it to £150.
Im also satisfied it would be fair for Avantia to pay Mr C compensation to recognise 
the distress and inconvenience it contributed to. Im satisfied £100 is a reasonable 
and proportionate figure in the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Avantia didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mr C responded to say he accepted my provisional decision.
As Mr C has accepted my findings and Avantia hasnt challenged them, I see no reason to 
change them or comment further.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Avantia Insurance Limited to pay:
£150 financial loss
£100 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman