DRN-3505272
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank wont refund him for flights 
that he bought using his credit card.
What happened
In May 2019, Mr S booked return flights for him and his wife to go abroad. The flight 
departed on 6 January 2020 and Mr S and his wife were due to fly back on 6 April 2020. Mr 
S used a merchant to book these flights who Ill refer to as J. Mr S paid a total of £7,008 for 
the flights on a different bank card.
In March 2020, due to Covid-19, the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office 
(FCDO) advised against all but essential international travel. And issued guidance advising 
UK nationals overseas to return home as soon as possible as the UK had announced a 
lockdown which started on 26 March 2020. 
Upon hearing this news, Mr S contacted J for help in returning back home. At this point, J 
advised Mr S that taking an earlier flight would cost him a fee of £2,978. So, Mr S says he 
decided to wait a little longer before making a decision. However, Mr S decided to contact J 
a few days later and agreed to leave the destination he and his wife were in. Mr S was told 
he could book flights with an airline Ill refer to as E and was reminded that hed have to 
pay the fee of £2,978  which Mr S agreed to do. However, this flight was then cancelled on 
23 March 2020, before Mr S and his wife were able to board the flight.
Mr S says he made further calls to J to discuss different flights to be able to get home. Mr S 
said hed located a flight with a different airline, who Ill refer to as Q for £6,100. So, he 
made J aware of what hed found, but J couldnt locate these flights on their system. In any 
case, J told Mr S that flying with Q wasnt guaranteed as this airline might stop flying. And 
instead, J found Mr S and his wife alternative flights on 8 April 2020 with an airline Ill refer to 
as B  Mr S says J told him that this flight would have been guaranteed by the British 
government. This flight cost was over £9,600 and Mr S says he was told by J, as a gesture 
of goodwill, theyll contribute the £2,978 hed paid previously towards the overall cost of the 
flights with B. As a result, Mr S paid the remaining £6,675 on his Yorkshire Bank credit card. 
Mr S says he and his wife arrived at the airport and was told that the flight with B was 
cancelled. Instead, B told him that theyd put him and his wife on another flight with another 
airline  the flight with Q that Mr S had found and told J about before agreeing to book the 
flights with B. Mr S says hes unhappy as he could have booked to go on the flight with Q for 
a much lower price than what he paid with B. And that he wasnt given a choice other than to 
take the flight with Q in order to get home.
Additionally, Mr S says he later found out that E agreed to waive all change fees and fare 
differences for rebooking flights before 30 June 2020. And that under the aviation rules, E 
were obliged to offer him and his wife either a flight, alternative transport or a refund when a 
flight was cancelled. However, this didnt happen when the flight was cancelled on 23 March 
2020. 
Mr S complained to J and asked for the £2,978 fee to be refunded, as well as the original 
flight return that him and his wife werent able to take (as they made the decision to fly home 
earlier than the planned return date) and also the £6,675 he paid for the flight with B. 
Yorkshire Bank looked into things for Mr S when he raised a complaint with them. Yorkshire 
Bank initially considered Mr S claim under chargeback, however, they felt they didnt have 
enough information to raise one. This was because theyd asked for evidence from Mr S of 
Bs flight cancellation and even though hed provided this, they didnt feel it was enough. 
Yorkshire Bank then considered Mr S claim under Section 75. And they said Mr S didnt 
have a valid Section 75 claim as J were just acting as an agent for the flight provider. And it 
was in fact B and Q who were responsible for providing the flights for Mr S and his wife  
therefore, the contract was with them and not J. So, they concluded no error had been 
made. 
Mr S has told us hes since requested a refund through his other credit card providers and 
has received a refund for the £2,978 fee as well as a refund of the £3,504 which was the 
original return flights him and his wife werent able to use (due to flying home sooner than 
the planned return date). 
Mr S says the overall cost of the flights should have been £7,008. But instead, due to the 
changes and additional flight he bought to return home, it cost him £15,551. As Mr S has 
received a total refund of £6,482 so far, Mr S is asking for Yorkshire Bank to reimburse him 
the £3,171 that he paid more than he expected to.
Our Investigator looked into Mr S concerns. In relation to chargeback, our Investigator felt 
that even though Yorkshire Bank had enough information to raise a chargeback claim at the 
time, they didnt act unreasonably in not doing so because there wasnt a reasonable 
prospect of success. Our Investigator said this because she felt there was enough 
information to show B were acting within their terms for Mr S to travel back home on a 
different flight. And even though Mr S didnt ultimately travel with B, he and his wife did 
receive flights to travel back home. In relation to Mr S Section 75 claim, our Investigator 
concluded there wasnt the necessary relationship between Mr S, Yorkshire Bank and B for 
a valid Section 75 claim. But in any case, even though there wasnt the necessary debtor-
creditor-supplier relationship, our Investigator looked at whether Js advice to book flights 
with B could be looked at under Section 75. In summary, our Investigator felt J hadnt 
breached their contract as they provided Mr S with an alternative when something went 
wrong.
Mr S disagreed and remained of the opinion that he paid more for the flight with B, when he 
could have got a new return flight home with Q for a lot less, had J found the flight he had 
referred to previously. Mr S also said he wanted to know who has received the difference of 
£3,171 as a result of the flight changes. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about Yorkshire Bank, as Mr S credit card account provider. Its not about 
J, who arent a financial service provider and so dont fall within my remit. 
There is no automatic obligation on a credit card issuer to provide redress where one of their 
customers uses their facilities to make a purchase, and something then goes wrong with that 
purchase. However, there are typically two avenues via which the credit card issuer can help 
or may have a legal liability.Chargeback 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute with a merchant, as Mr S does 
here, Yorkshire Bank (as the card issuer) can attempt a chargeback. The process involves 
the card issuer disputing payments made on the card through a dispute resolution scheme 
operated by the companies which run the card networks, in this case its Mastercard. I would 
normally expect a credit card issuer to attempt a chargeback if there was a reasonable 
prospect of this achieving a successful outcome.
Mr S paid £6,675 to J which was for his and his wifes flights with B  so this is the 
transaction amount Yorkshire Bank could process under a chargeback claim. Its not the 
£7,008 Mr S paid as the overall flight cost as this was paid using a different account. 
Yorkshire Bank told us they didnt process a chargeback claim because they didnt feel there 
was sufficient information to raise one. When considering a chargeback claim, Yorkshire 
Bank would have been required, under Mastercards rules, to provide a reason code under 
which the dispute is being raised.
In a situation like Mr S, where the flight with B was cancelled, I think the appropriate reason 
code that would have likely been used was goods or services not provided. Having looked 
at the relevant rule from May 2020, for a chargeback claim under this code to be submitted, 
the rule explains the following supporting documents are to be supplied:
A description of the cardholders complaint in sufficient detail to enable all parties to
understand the dispute. This means that the cardholder email, letter, message or completed
dispute resolution form  cardholder dispute chargeback (Form 1221) must document how
each of the chargeback conditions was met.
There are also other conditions under this chargeback code that require the cardholder (in 
this case Mr S) to have engaged in the transaction and also that the purchased goods or 
services were not received.
Ive looked carefully at the information available to me. I can see Yorkshire Bank asked Mr S 
to supply further information to support his dispute. As a result of this request, Mr S provided 
Yorkshire Bank with the initial booking confirmation for his flight with B to the UK, the 
updated flight information where Mr S and his wife ended up flying back with Q, Mr S 
complaint letter of 4 May 2020 to J where he explained what had happened  including his 
flight cancellation with E, the new flight hed booked with B and this then changing to a flight 
with Q. 
Having considered what Yorkshire Bank told us about not raising a chargeback claim, along 
with the information Mr S provided to them at the time and the chargeback rule explained 
above, I think Yorkshire Bank may have had enough information to raise a chargeback 
claim. So, as they didnt, Ill go on to consider if they had raised a chargeback claim, would it 
have been successful. And if so, has Mr S lost out as a result of Yorkshire Bank not raising a 
chargeback claim.
Ive looked at section 9 of Bs General Conditions of Carriage and it explains:
9a3) If, after you buy your ticket:
We make a significant change to the scheduled departure time of your flight;
You find this change unacceptable; and
We or our authorised agents cannot book you on another flight which you are 
prepared to accept;We will give you an involuntary fare refund.
And under 9b Remedies for delays and cancellations, it explains:
9b2) these measures may, in exceptional circumstances and if necessary to prevent a flight
being cancelled, include arranging for a flight to be operated:
By another aircraft
By another airline or
By both
Ive also looked through Mastercards guidance from its Dispute Resolution Management 
During COVID-19 (Update 1) which contains guidance that I think is relevant to Mr S case.
The guidance explains that where services arent provided, there is no chargeback right, if 
the merchant was able to provide the cardholder with reasonable alternatives based on their 
terms and conditions. 
Having carefully considered all of the above, I think even if Yorkshire Bank had raised a 
chargeback, its likely J would have challenged this. I say this because its more likely than 
not that J would have referred to Bs General Conditions of Carriage to show B were acting 
in line with their terms and conditions for Mr S to travel back to the UK but on a different 
airline  Q. While I appreciate it was B who cancelled the flight, they acted in line with their 
terms and conditions by arranging for Mr S and his wife to travel back to the UK with another 
airline. So, Im satisfied they acted in line with their terms and conditions and satisfied their 
responsibility for a cancellation they made. Therefore, even if Yorkshire Bank had raised a 
chargeback claim, I think it unlikely it would have succeeded for these reasons.
 
I note Mr S is also unhappy with the information he was given by J at the time  specifically 
that they couldnt locate the flight Mr S found with Q. However, I dont think there are 
grounds for a chargeback to be raised for this. I say this because ultimately, Mr S agreed to 
the airline tickets with B, bought them and travelled under the tickets, albeit on a different 
airline (which is in line with Bs Conditions as above).
Section 75 claim
In deciding what I think is fair and reasonable I need to have regard to, amongst other 
things, any relevant law. In this case, the relevant law is Section 75 which says that, in 
certain circumstances, if Mr S paid for goods and services, in part or whole, on his Yorkshire 
Bank credit card, and there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier, 
Yorkshire Bank can be held responsible.
My role isnt to decide Yorkshire Banks liability under Section 75. Instead, as statute 
requires me to, I need to decide whats fair and reasonable, taking into account any relevant 
law, such as the Consumer Credit Act 1974. For a valid claim under Section 75 there must 
be a debtor-creditor-supplier relationship in place. 
I understand Mr B is unhappy that J didnt find him the cheaper flight which was the flight 
with Q. And he feels hes lost out as a result. I dont feel I need to decide whether theres a 
debtor, creditor, supplier relationship between Mr B, Yorkshire Bank and J as I dont think it 
makes a difference to my findings. I say this because having looked at Js terms and 
conditions, their only requirement was to provide a booking service  which they did. Theres 
no provision in there to say J were required to find the cheapest flight option for Mr S. In any 
case, Mr S was told about the flight with B, accepted the flight and paid for them. So, I dont 
think I can fairly say theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation here.Additionally, I appreciate Mr S has said that the flight he bought wasnt the one he received - 
he paid for the flight with B, but had to fly home with Q. However, as explained above, Bs 
terms and conditions allow for them to arrange an alternative flight to be operated by another 
airline, so I think B have satisfied their responsibility for a cancellation they made. With that 
in mind, Im not persuaded there has been a breach of contract.
I understand Mr S has said hed like to know where the difference of £3,171 has gone to as 
a result of the flight changes. However, this isnt something I can comment on as my role is 
to look at whether I think Yorkshire Bank have acted fairly or not when handling Mr S 
chargeback and Section 75 claim.
In summary, while I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr S, I dont find 
Yorkshire Bank have acted unreasonably here. Even if a chargeback claim was raised, I 
dont think it likely it would have succeeded. And as explained, I dont think Yorkshire Bank 
acted unfairly in declining Mr S Section 75 claim.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman