DRN-3198847
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc has handled an ongoing claim for 
subsidence.
What happened
A subsidence claim was made in 2017 when cracking was found at Mr Ss property.
AXA appointed a loss adjuster and surveys were carried out to assess the damage. Reports 
concluded that the subsidence could have been caused by defective drains, clay shrinkage 
due to ivy growth, or issues with foundations. 
The claim was accepted but Mr S was unhappy with the progress made. He complained to 
AXA, raising a number of issues. These included delays caused by AXA and its appointed 
agents, the rejection of the ground stabilisation solution proposed by experts, and an overall 
lack of transparency, among other things.
AXA considered the complaint and responded to Mr S. It accepted that it had taken longer 
than it shouldve to deal with the claim, and accepted it had caused a delay in arranging a 
distortion survey. So it offered Mr S £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by this  and a further £50 goodwill payment.
Mr S remained unhappy with AXAs handling of the claim and its response to his complaint. 
So he referred the complaint to this service. Our investigator considered what had 
happened, but didnt think AXA needed to do anything differently. She said whilst AXA 
couldve handled the claim more quickly, it had recognised this with a fair offer of 
compensation.
Because Mr S didnt agree with our investigators assessment, the complaint has now come 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The crux of Mr Ss complaint seems to be the decisions AXA has made when dealing with 
the claim and the delays caused. While I wont comment on everything Mr S and AXA have 
raised, I want to reassure both parties that Ive considered carefully all the information thats 
been provided, and will comment on what I feel are the key issues. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy to either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of this service.
The first issue Ive considered is the time the claim has taken. Mr S has been in touch with 
us recently to let us know that the claim has now been ongoing for six years and he wants to 
make a new complaint. Id like to assure Mr S he can do so, because my decision focuses 
on events between 2017 and 2021 only, but hell need to follow AXAs usual complaints 
process before this service can get involved in any new complaint.
I can consider what Mr S has told us about delays that were caused up until the date of 
AXAs final response letter, dated 23 June 2021. I can see from the timeline of this claim, 
that since the claim was made in 2017, AXA has progressed things generally as I would 
expect in a complex subsidence claim. Its not unusual for claims of this nature to span a 
number of years, as there are so many steps involved in finding out whats gone wrong and 
in putting things right. I do however think that there have been times (such as between 
February and May 2019 and between November 2020 and February 2021) where it may 
have seemed as though no progress was being made. 
But I also note that there were times when AXA says Mr S cancelled a repair meeting and 
that there have been subsequent failed attempts to visit the property  and access has been 
difficult at times. And looking closely at the timeline and information Ive been provided with, I 
can see that even where it looked as though progress perhaps wasnt being made in the way 
the parties wouldve liked, AXA was usually working behind the scenes to progress matters  
chasing third parties for example. So taking everything into account, I think the £300 AXA 
has offered Mr S in recognition of where it couldve progressed matters more swiftly is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
Turning now to Mr Ss concerns about the ground stabilisation solutions that were proposed, 
I know he feels strongly that as cracks are still forming, AXA hasnt carried out effective 
stabilisation work. I can see that a distortion survey was undertaken and Ive seen a copy of 
the results. These indicate that the level of movement warrants superstructure repairs, rather 
than the polymer resin injections that Mr S believes would be the correct course of action. 
Considering what AXA has said about the injections, Im persuaded that its not 
unreasonable for it to conclude that this wouldnt be the correct course of action, given the 
readings taken from the distortion survey and the fact that these types of injections arent 
always effective and long-lasting on the particular type of clay subsoil that has been 
identified here, due to the plasticity in the clay. However, I should add that, once 
superstructure repairs are complete, and if significant movement continues, then it would be 
for Mr S to provide evidence of this movement to AXA and for AXA to carry out further 
monitoring.
I note there has been further communication between Mr S and AXA about current issues, 
most recently in an email dated 18 August 2022 in which Mr S has said he wishes to raise a 
new complaint. Ive considered whether I can review everything thats happened in this case 
to date. But I think its important that Mr S gets a response to his most recent complaint from 
AXA directly before this service can become involved. 
Whilst Ive chosen not to comment on ongoing matters that AXA has not addressed in its 
previous final response, I would expect AXA to respond to and deal promptly with the most 
recent complaint Mr S has made, in relation to ongoing delays. I should also make clear that 
Mr S would be entitled to bring a new complaint to this service in relation to any issue that 
has occurred since the date of AXAs final response letter (23 June 2021). This includes 
issues with any ongoing movement, which I would expect AXA to investigate and monitor as 
it usually would  and deal with as part of the existing claim.
In terms of what has happened up until the date of the 23 June 2021 final response letter, 
Im satisfied AXA hasnt acted unfairly and where it has identified failings it has offered a 
reasonable level of compensation for these. So I wont be requiring AXA to do anything 
differently in relation to this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman