DRN-4355729
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Zopa Bank Limited (Zopa) acted irresponsibly when it provided
him with a £10,000 loan in July 2021.
Background
Mr B was approved for a £10,000 loan from Zopa in July 2021. He has told us that he is a
compulsive gambler and that the loan he received further increased his overall indebtedness
and allowed him to gamble in a harmful and destructive way. He has said that as a self-
employed person his income wasnt guaranteed, and the bank shouldve done more checks
to ensure the loan was affordable for him. He believes that if it had done increased checks it
wouldve uncovered his gambling problem and wouldve refused to provide him with the
loan.
Zopa has said that at the time Mr B applied for the loan it was unaware he was struggling to
control his gambling. It said it ran proportionate checks in line with the obligations set out by
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and that these checks didnt indicate that there were
any affordability or sustainability concerns. Therefore, it doesnt believe it was wrong to
approve the loan for Mr B.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 August 2023. In it I found that there was nothing on any 
of the information provided by Mr B, or on his credit file, from the time he applied for the loan 
that wouldve indicated that it wasnt affordable or that hed have trouble repaying it. So, I 
didnt think Zopa had acted unreasonably when it provided him with the credit. 
Zopa accepted my findings, but Mr B didnt. He responded to the provisional decision saying 
that he believes it should be mandatory for credit providers to review bank statements prior 
to providing credit. If Zopa had done this he believes it wouldve realised he was gambling in 
a compulsive and harmful way and wouldnt have provided him with the loan.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr B believes mandatory checks on bank statements should be part of all 
lending decisions. However, the rules set out by the FCA dont require businesses to 
automatically review bank statements. So, I cant say that Zopa did anything wrong by not 
asking to see these. And therefore, I cant uphold Mr Bs complaint on that basis. 
As no other points were raised in relation to the findings I reached in the provisional decision 
I am still of the opinion Zopa did everything it was required to do before providing the loan to 
Mr B and so Im not upholding his complaint. 
For the sake of fullness, I will repeat the findings from that decision here. 
When Mr B applied for his loan with Zopa he declared his annual income to be
approximately £55,000 and filled out an income and expenditure form that indicated he had
a monthly disposal income of approximately £1,450.
The loan was for £10,000 and had to be repaid over 48 months at just under £305 per
month.
When providing credit, the rules set out by the FCA state that lenders must run proportionate
checks to ensure the lending is both affordable and sustainable.
Zopa has confirmed, and provided evidence that shows, that at the time Mr B applied for his
loan his credit file showed no recent missed payments, no overdraft usage and no indication
that he was becoming over reliant on credit.
Mr B has provided us with bank statements that show in the month prior to applying for the
loan he had started using the overdraft on his main account and was over £4,000
overdrawn. In addition, he has said that he was also using his credit cards more and that his
spending was spiralling out of control.
It's important here for me to clarify that I dont doubt what Mr B has told us. From the
evidence hes provided it is clear that by mid-2021 he was gambling excessively and that
this was causing him financial problems. Its also true that in a very short space of time he
applied for credit from a number of different lenders and so his overall indebtedness
increased quickly and then became unmanageable. So, I fully understand why Mr B is so
upset that he was able to secure the amount of credit he did, and why he feels Zopa
shouldve done more to check he could genuinely afford the loan he applied for.
However, the rules surrounding what lenders need to do before providing consumers with
credit, dont set out specific checks that have to be undertaken. So, for example, the rules
dont say that lenders have to ask for bank statements to see how accounts are being
managed. Rather the rules state that some checks need to be completed and Zopa has
shown us that some checks were.
And most importantly the checks that Zopa did in July 2021 didnt show anything that would
indicate Mr B may struggle to meet his monthly repayments. Zopa has provided us with a
copy of the information it pulled from Mr Bs credit file. This didnt show that Mr B had
recently started to rely on his overdraft, despite that happening a month prior to him applying
for the loan. This is because the information on our credit files isnt updated in real time but
rather is updated approximately every 6 to 8 weeks. So, it can take a while for information to
appear on there. Which means Zopa didnt know Mr B was as overdrawn as he was when
he applied for the loan.
Indeed, there was nothing on any of the information provided by Mr B at the time he applied
for the loan that wouldve indicated to Zopa that it wasnt affordable or sustainable for him.
And because there was nothing in the checks that wouldve alerted Zopa that Mr B was
spending in a compulsive and harmful way, I cant say it failed in its obligations when it didnt
ask for more detailed information about his finances. And because I cant say Zopa failed to
complete proportionate checks, I cant uphold Mr Bs complaint against it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against Zopa Bank Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman