DRN-3400307
The complaint
Mrs W complains about Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (MSF) response to her
claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75).
What happened
Mrs W had cosmetic surgery carried out by a hospital (the supplier) in 2006 and paid for it
using her MSF credit card. The surgery involved the insertion of implants (the product).
In November 2019 Mrs W wrote to MSF to make a claim under Section 75 and explain why
she was unhappy with the procedure and product. In summary, she told MSF:
- in September 2018 she felt pain and found the product had ruptured (leading to it
being removed); and
- on reflection the supplier put a hazardous product in her, did not warn her about 
possible ruptures, and gave her a lifetime guarantee. She has also since found out 
that the product has been removed from the market because it is unsafe.
MSF did not uphold the Section 75 claim. In summary it said:
- there wasnt a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship for a valid claim against it
because Mrs W paid a different entity to the supplier; and
- even if it were mistaken on this any claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation is time barred under the Limitation Act 1980.
Mrs W was not happy with the response from MSF so she brought her complaint to this
service. She explained how her health has been adversely impacted (both leading up to
removal of the product and after) and she has also lost her confidence since the product has
been removed.
On 23 February 2022 I issued a provisional decision which said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
debtor-creditor-supplier relationship
Section 75 allows Mrs W to hold MSF responsible for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation in respect of goods or services purchased using the MSF credit card.
However, there are certain criteria that have to be met for a Section 75 claim
to be valid. This might be in relation to the cost of the goods or services, the parties to the 
transaction, or the way the payment was made. In order to decide what is fair and 
reasonable I have considered the criteria that need to be satisfied in order
for a Section 75 claim to be valid.
MSF argues that because Mrs W used her MSF card to pay a different entity to the supplier 
there is no valid debtor-creditor-supplier agreement for a Section 75 claim. I can see from 
the patient paperwork from 2006 that the hospital which supplied the product and carried out 
the procedure is the same entity which Mrs W paid. I note that it was taken over by another 
company (the acquisitor) in 2008. However, this doesnt mean there is no debtor-creditor- 
supplier agreement for a valid claim.
I consider it likely (in the absence of contradicting evidence) that the acquisitor took on the 
existing liabilities of the supplier when it took over the business. So it would likely be 
considered one and the same in respect of any claim made against it. However, even if this 
were not the case it would not prevent Mrs W from having a like claim against MSF in 
respect of the procedure carried out by the original supplier whom she paid with her MSF 
credit card in 2006.
In conclusion, I reject MSFs position that there is no correct debtor-creditor-supplier
agreement for Mrs W to have a valid Section 75 claim against it.
time limit to bring the claim
MSF has stated that the claim Mrs W raised against it is time barred. It explains that she had
the procedure carried out in 2006 yet the product ruptured in 2018  12 years on and too late
to bring a claim about it.
The Limitation Act 1980 (LA) is relevant law which I need to consider in respect of any
action against MSF for misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. By virtue of
Section 75 MSF is responsible for the like claim which Mrs W would have against the
supplier. So it follows that if a claim against the supplier would be time barred in court  then
it might not be fair and reasonable to consider such a claim against MSF.
Mrs W has said the supplier acted fraudulently  therefore this would extend the relevant
limitation period under the LA. However, I do not think there is persuasive evidence here that
the supplier has acted fraudulently so I do not accept this position.
However, I have also considered the requirements of other parts of the LA. In particular I
have considered Section 11 which by virtue of 11(2) prevails over the preceding sections of
the LA.
Section 11 applies to actions in respect of damages for personal injuries arising from
negligence, nuisance or a breach of duty. Section 11 sets out that this duty exists:
by virtue of a contract or of provision made by or under a statute or independently of any contract or any such
provision
I therefore consider that, alongside any action for negligent misrepresentation, Mrs Ws claim
in respect of any contractual duty for the supplier to act with reasonable care and skill, or
provide a product that is of satisfactory quality will be covered by this provision. Section
11(4) explains that the relevant limitation period for this section only starts to run from the
date on which the cause of action accrued or the date of knowledge (if later) of the person
injured.
Mrs Ws implants ruptured in 2018, and she contacted MSF to raise a claim in November
2019. So on the basis of 11(4) I believe she would be in time to bring any like claim against
MSF for the actions of the supplier. So I reject MSFs argument that Mrs Ws Section 75
claim is entirely time barred.
Because I do not consider the claim invalid by way of the debtor-creditor-supplier
agreement, or time barred, I have gone on to consider any liability which MSF might have byway of Section 75 for breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
the actions of the supplier
I am sorry to hear about what happened to Mrs W and the circumstances in which she had
to have the product removed. However, her allegations concern a complex medical
procedure. To properly consider any potential wrongdoing by the supplier  I would need
more persuasive evidence than I do have. This would likely be in the form of expert evidence
to show that the supplier acted without reasonable skill and care in the way it consulted and
carried out the procedure based on relevant good practice at the time. Furthermore, the
evidential difficulties are compounded here by the sheer amount of time that has elapsed
between Mrs W having the procedure carried out and any difficulties arising.
I do not want to take away from the difficult experience Mrs W has described in respect to
the product rupturing  but this in itself does not persuade me that her complaint should be
upheld. This is particularly so as the problems arose around 12 years after insertion and
published national health guidance indicates that these products do not last a lifetime and
will need replacing at some point. It goes on to say that after 10 years further surgery might
be needed because of problems or other changes. In light of this, despite the issues Mrs W
experienced and eventual replacement of the product, I would need to see particularly
compelling evidence of wrongdoing on the part of the supplier. Unfortunately, I have not
seen such evidence here.
In summary, based on the current information I have I am not persuaded that the supplier
has misrepresented things or failed to act with reasonable skill and care.
the product
Mrs W has said that she was promised the product had a lifetime guarantee. Unfortunately,
while I have considered what Mrs W has said, there is no supporting evidence that the
product came with this. In absence of any compelling evidence to support what Mrs W has
said, and in light of the published national health guidance referred to above, I am not
persuaded the supplier provided a guarantee like this.
Mrs W has said she found out the particular product has now been removed from the
market. I have looked into this and it does appear that in July 2019 the product was
withdrawn from the market due to potential health concerns. I recently put this information to
MSF for comment  and it has not changed its position. I have carefully considered this point
and (while I appreciate this information would no doubt be unsettling) the particular concerns
which have been publicised as the reason for withdrawal appear wholly unrelated to Mrs Ws
experience.
Even if I accepted that the recent concerns now render the product of unsatisfactory quality I
note that they also came to light more than 12 years after the initial procedure and once the
product had been removed for apparently unrelated reasons. As a result, in this particular
case, even if it were established that there had been a breach of contract in this regard, I am
not persuaded that MSF is responsible for compensating Mrs W.
other considerations
I think it important to note that even if there was more persuasive expert evidence that the
supplier had misled or breached its contact and caused Mrs W detriment, I would then need
to consider whether it right for this service to make a final determination in light of the
complexity of the potential issues at play and our inability to compel expert evidence or cross
examine witnesses.Furthermore, it is important to note that this service is unable to make awards for loss of
amenity. I am of course very sorry to hear about the ongoing impact Mrs W has explained in
respect of her wellbeing as a result of this situation  but it is unlikely this service would be
able to make an award to compensate for this in any event.
Mrs W should also be aware that choosing to accept my final decision on this matter might
have an impact on any other claims she wishes to make in relation to personal injury or other
losses against any party in the future.
in summary
For the reasons already given, I consider Mrs Ws Section 75 claim is not invalid due to the
relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement and nor is it time barred. However, based on
the information I have I am not persuaded that Mrs W has suffered loss as a result of a
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. So with Section 75 in mind I do not
think it fair and reasonable to direct MSF to pay her any refund or compensation.
I didnt uphold the complaint and asked the parties for their comments.
MSF has not provided further comments. Mrs W has responded and disagrees with my 
decision. In summary, she says that 
there is wider evidence on the internet, newspapers and in court hearings that shows 
thousands have won compensation due to suppliers inserting non-compliant products 
into persons without checking;
thousands have claimed against their card companies and been awarded a refund 
and compensation  MSF should do the same for her; 
the supplier acted not only wrongly but negligently;
she was told there was a lifetime guarantee (recklessly) and was not told of any 
complications that might arise  why would she and thousands of others have gone 
ahead if they were told of the risks;
she has suffered greatly as a result of misrepresentation and feels very strongly that 
she should be entitled to compensation along with the thousands of others who 
received it; and
she feels extremely discriminated against and this has added to her depression and 
anxiety  it seems one sided and unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I have carefully considered the comments Mrs W has made in response to my provisional 
decision. I am truly sorry to hear about how she feels and as I said in my provisional decision 
I am sorry to hear about the circumstances related to the procedure she has described. I do 
not in any way wish to dismiss or diminish what Mrs W has gone through and the ongoing 
health impact she has described. However, as I have already stated in my provisional 
decision  loss of amenity is not something that I would be able to make an award for in any 
event. 
I have gone on to consider what Mrs W says about what she considers to be similar cases 
where other people have received compensation. As I have indicated in my provisional 
decision - the challenge here is this is a complex matter relating to a medical procedure 
carried out over 15 years ago. There is limited expert or other persuasive evidence available 
while there are many variables to consider which might distinguish one case or group of 
cases from others  such as the particular surgeon or type of product used. 
My decision (with MSFs liability under Section 75 in mind) is based on whether there has 
been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the particular 
circumstances of Mrs Ws case. As it stands, despite some general reference to the wider 
evidence out there I do not have enough persuasive evidence directly applicable to Mrs Ws 
situation that would allow me to conclude that the supplier acted without reasonable skill and 
care in the way it consulted and carried out her procedure based on relevant good practice 
at the time. Or that it misrepresented the product at the time of sale in order that Mrs W 
made a decision she otherwise would not have made.
Although Mrs W indicates the supplier inserted the product without checking the safety risks 
there is no persuasive evidence that the product had been withdrawn from the market at the 
time of her surgery in 2006. Or that the supplier had failed to disclose particular risks it 
should have based on the required standard of medical skill and care expected at the time.
Mrs W reiterated that the product was removed from the market. I have already carefully 
considered this point. However, as I have said in my provisional decision: 
based on the current evidence I have this appears to be for reasons entirely 
unrelated to what happened to Mrs W; and
even if I accepted that the recent concerns now render the product of unsatisfactory 
quality I note that they also came to light in 2019 - more than 12 years after the initial 
procedure and once Mrs W had already had the product removed for apparently 
unrelated reasons.
I am not minded to alter the findings in my provisional decision (as copied above). All things 
considered, and based on the limited evidence I do have I am not persuaded that Mrs W has 
suffered loss as a result of a misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. So with 
Section 75 in mind I do not think it fair and reasonable to direct MSF to pay her a refund or 
compensation.
I consider it worth highlighting the following paragraph from my provisional decision:
Mrs W should also be aware that choosing to accept my final decision on this matter might
have an impact on any other claims she wishes to make in relation to personal injury or other
losses against any party in the future.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2022.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman