DRN-3221026
The complaint
Mr S complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) provided poor 
customer service and closed his account after he made a complaint. 
What happened
Mr S had two bank accounts with Halifax  a regular saver account and an instant access 
account - that were opened in mid 2019. 
On 19 February 2021 Mr S phoned Halifax to ask some questions about his accounts. He 
called a number of times, but was unable to verify that he was the account holder. This 
meant he was not able to discuss his accounts. Mr S was unhappy and so complained to 
Halifax. His complaint points were:  
 
Not being verified when he called on a number of occasions on the same day.  
Being placed on hold without being told why.  
Halifax was unable to tell him the amount of interest he might earn on his regular 
saver account. 
Being told to visit a branch to get the interest calculated.
An advisor told Mr S they could log a complaint, but then had to double check if this 
could be done. 
Not being called at the time requested.
Halifax didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said the security of its customers was its top 
priority. It said Mr S was not able to provide his account details, and so there was not 
enough security data to verify him. Halifax said in a situation like that, it had the option to 
send a text message with a verification code to the mobile number held on file. 
Halifax also said there are times when advisors might need to place Mr S on hold. It said 
having reviewed all the relevant calls, it could see Mr S was made aware that this was going 
to happen before advisors put him on hold. Halifax also said Mr S was provided with an 
approximate interest figure. 
Halifax also said when it offered to log a complaint for Mr S, he queried whether this could 
be done given that he hadnt been verified. So the advisor said they would double check. 
Although Mr S was unhappy that the advisor wanted to do this, Halifax said it encouraged 
advisors to check the correct information is being provided. 
In relation to not being called at the time requested, Halifax said it cant guarantee to make 
calls at certain times, as it also receives incoming calls. 
Halifax also told Mr S it had decided to close his account. It said Mr Ss continual contact 
with Halifax indicated his considerable dissatisfaction with the services provided by it. And it 
could not see any value in continuing an association that gave him repeated cause for 
concern. Halifax said when Mr S opened his accounts with it, he was provided with an 
account agreement. And this stated Halifax could close his account at any time without 
giving a reason, if it felt it needed to. 
Mr S was unhappy with the response from Halifax and so complained to this service. Mr S 
told this service he didnt think Halifax should have closed his account in response to his 
complaint, as this acted as a deterrent to him complaining. He said he only needed to make 
a few more payments into one of his accounts before he was eligible for a bonus and so 
didnt think it was fair to close the account. Mr S said there was nothing in the account terms 
and conditions that allowed Halifax to close the account under his particular circumstances. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint and he also said that two of the complaint 
points raised by Mr S couldnt be looked at by this service. This was because they related to 
complaint handling and not regulated activities. Our investigator concluded that Mr S hadnt 
received poor customer service during his contact with Halifax. And that Halifax acted in line 
with its terms and conditions, gave him the required notice period and explained its 
reasoning. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. He reiterated his complaint points and also added 
that he thought this service should be looking into why Halifax couldnt provide the service 
he wants. He said Halifax closed his account out of spite and they shouldnt have considered 
past complaints, as these were irrelevant. Mr S also said Halifax incorrectly stated in its final 
response letter that he had been told why he was being put on hold when this is not the 
case. He said this error should have been noticed by this service. And Mr S queried why, if 
he correctly answered the data protection questions, he wasnt given access to his account. 
As Mr S disagreed with the investigator, his complaint has come to me for a decision.  
I issued a provisional decision on 25 November 2021. I indicated that I didnt intend to 
uphold Mr Ss complaint. I gave both Mr S and Halifax the opportunity to respond with any 
further comments or evidence. Halifax responded and said it had nothing further to add. 
Mr S responded and said he had passed security for two years until this complaint and 
Halifax had not informed him of any changes to security. He also said he didnt fail security 
on this occasion. Mr S said he has never had a mobile number stored on his account. Mr S 
reiterated various points about being put on hold without being told why, being told to go into 
branch to find out what 1% of £3,000 was and being provided with bad customer service. 
Mr S also talked about the complaint handling process and remarks made by the member of 
staff dealing with his complaint. He said the closure of his account goes against the terms 
and conditions, as well as the Financial Conduct Authoritys six principles of treating people 
fairly.  
I want to assure Mr S that I have fully considered his responses to my provisional decision, 
but his comments dont change the conclusions Ive reached.   
Mr S also pointed to another complaint he made recently to this service, which was also 
against Halifax. He also talked about the bad service hes received from Halifax since 
opening his account two years ago, and the amount of compensation hes been awarded on 
a regular basis. But I dont intend to take these two points into consideration here. Every 
complaint is considered on its own merits. And the outcome of one complaint does not 
impact the outcome of another. 
I am now in a position to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
When Mr S initially complained to Halifax, he raised various complaint points about the level 
of customer service hed received. And this is one part of his complaint to this service. When 
Halifax responded to Mr S, it told him it had made the decision to close his accounts, so 
Mr S has also complained about the closures. For ease, Ive looked at each complaint point 
in turn. 
I want to assure Mr S at this point that I have taken all of the information provided into 
consideration, even if not every point made by Mr S is mentioned in this decision. Ill only 
address the comments and evidence I see to be relevant in reaching a fair and reasonable 
outcome here.
Account verification 
Mr S rang Halifax a number of times on the day in question in order to check information in 
relation to his accounts. He didnt have his account number or sort code to hand and told 
advisors that the mobile phone number on Halifaxs system was not his mobile number. This 
meant he was not able to receive a security code by text message. On each occasion the 
advisors were unable to verify Mr S and so couldnt access his account details.  
Mr S said he answered all security questions correctly, so it shouldnt have been necessary 
for Halifax to want to send him a security code via text message. He said he hadnt been 
asked before to verify his account in this way.
Its important to say at this point that banks are allowed to put reasonable security measures 
in place and this service will rarely interfere with those. It might be that these measures 
cause some sort of short term inconvenience  for instance it being suggested to Mr S that 
he could resolve matters in branch - but Halifax are allowed to prioritise reasonable security 
measures over convenience. They are, after all, attempting to ensure the security of all 
parties involved. And Im satisfied the security measures put in place by Halifax in these 
particular circumstances were reasonable and in line with standard industry practice. 
Mr S was concerned about how it could be the case that he correctly answered the security 
questions asked, and yet was still unable to access his accounts. Mr S said its never 
happened before that Halifax insisted on sending him a security code by text message 
before advisors could access his account. This may be so. But if Halifaxs security system is 
telling advisors that this is the step that needs to be taken in order for Mr S to pass security, 
then its reasonable to expect them to tell Mr S about that. And its a step that needs to be 
taken by consumers irrespective of whether its been asked of them before. So while Mr S 
appears to have answered all security questions correctly, its the case that he failed security 
because he needed a security code to be verified.  
Its important for Mr S to be aware that however unhappy he was with the security measures, 
it is for Halifax to decide on what appropriate security measures to put in place. Whats 
important is that a consumer should be able to reasonably do whats been asked of them. 
And although Mr S would have experienced some inconvenience, in that he would have 
needed to take steps to ensure Halifax had his current mobile phone number or may have 
needed to go into branch, Im satisfied he could reasonably do what was asked of him.  
Looking at the customer service provided, Im satisfied that all of the advisors were polite, 
professional and informative  they told Mr S what steps he needed to take to be able to 
verify his account in the future and provided an explanation about why Mr S couldnt be taken through security. I realise Mr S was unhappy with the explanation provided, but one 
was provided nonetheless. And several of the advisors tried as best they could to help with 
Mr Ss queries. 
Request to calculate interest 
During the call to one of the advisors, Mr S asked her to confirm the rate of interest one of 
his accounts was earning. She did this. He then told her how much money he was 
depositing each month and what he expected the total deposited to be when the account 
matured after two years. Mr S then asked the advisor to calculate the interest he should 
expect to earn. Mr Ss said his question was a basic one that the advisor didnt know how to 
answer. 
When Mr S asked the advisor to calculate the interest, he hadnt been verified and so she 
didnt have access to his account. After taking advice from a colleague, the advisor told Mr S 
that she wasnt able to give him a precise figure and so she suggested he could visit a 
Halifax branch, where they would have access to his account and so would do a better 
calculation. She explained that she only had access to the Halifax website. Mr S then told 
the advisor that he was just looking for an approximate figure, and so she provided him with 
an approximate figure of £30. 
I am not upholding this part of Mr Ss complaint. The advisor did not have access to his 
account when she spoke to him and so did not have access to the necessary account 
information that she would need to provide Mr S with as accurate an answer as possible. 
She explained this to Mr S. And, at Mr Ss request, she provided him with an approximate 
amount. So I cant see that an error has occurred here. 
I also think it was reasonable for the advisor to suggest Mr S could go into branch to have a 
more accurate interest figure calculated. I realise this would have been more inconvenient 
for him, but it was clear at this point in the call that Mr S wasnt going to pass security. And 
so I think it was reasonable for the advisor to explain his other options to him. 
Being put on hold 
Mr S complained that he wasnt told why he was being put on hold. I can see that during one 
of the calls made by Mr S, the advisor asked him to bear with her for a minute and placed 
Mr S on hold for between one and two minutes. This was when they were discussing which 
account Mr S was referring to. When the advisor resumed the call, she told Mr S that she 
was going to ask him some questions and apologised. So I can see that Mr S wasnt told 
why he was placed on hold. 
Having considered this, I think what is important here is that the advisor let Mr S know that 
he was being placed on hold. Given what Mr S was discussing with the advisor when he was 
placed on hold, I think he will have had a reasonable understanding that the advisor was 
putting him on hold to check something in relation to their conversation. I also cant see that 
there was a detriment to Mr S as a result of being placed on hold without being told exactly 
why that was happening. Mr S was on hold for a short period of time and theres nothing to 
indicate in the call recording that he was, at that point in time, in any way distressed or 
otherwise put out by what had happened. 
Mr S was also placed on hold twice by another advisor, during a call where he asked the 
advisor to calculate how much interest he could expect to earn on one of his accounts. On 
the first occasion, the advisor told Mr S she wasnt sure of the interest rate and she was 
going to double check. So, Mr S was told why he was being placed on hold. Shortly after, the 
same advisor told Mr S that he was being placed on silent hold, but he wasnt told why. But what Ive said above also applies here, namely that whats important is that the advisor told 
Mr S he was being placed on hold, that its reasonable to say he would have had an 
understanding that she was making an enquiry in relation to what they were discussing and 
there was no detriment to Mr S as a result of not being told why he was being placed on 
hold. 
I know that Mr S was also concerned that the final response letter from Halifax was 
inaccurate, and he thought it incorrectly said he was told why he was being put on hold. But I 
am not able to look into this complaint point, as it falls under complaint handling. To explain 
further, there are limitations to what types of complaint this service can look into. Broadly 
speaking, we can only look into activities that are regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The FCAs Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules outline what activities fall within 
this services jurisdiction (DISP 2.3). And complaint handling is not one of the activities listed. 
So, as I said, I am not able to look into this particular complaint point. 
In any event, irrespective of what was or wasnt in the final response letter, I have looked at 
Mr Ss complaint in its entirety. 
To sum up, while I can see that Mr S wasnt told on two occasions just why he was being put 
on hold, for the reasons outlined above, Im not asking Halifax to take any further action.  
Being told a complaint could be logged, when he hadnt been verified 
When our investigator completed his assessment, he concluded that we werent able to look 
into this complaint point as it relates to complaint handling. And, as I said above, its certainly 
the case that complaint handling in and of itself is not a regulated activity, and so not 
something we can usually look into. However, given that Mr Ss complaint point here relates 
to an advisor needing to double check whether she could carry out a particular task in 
relation to Mr S being verified regarding his accounts, rather than being specifically about 
complaint handling, Ive decided its one we can look at.  
When Mr S spoke to one of the advisors, he complained about the various phone calls he 
made that day and his experiences of not being verified. The advisor offered to log a 
complaint for him. Mr S queried whether this could actually be done, given that he hadnt 
been verified. And the advisor said she would look to see if the system would let her log a 
complaint. So Mr Ss complaint point here is that the advisor shouldnt have offered to do 
something that she was unsure she could actually do. 
I am not upholding this part of Mr Ss complaint. I think the advisor offered good customer 
service when she said she would log a complaint for Mr S. Earlier in the call she was 
apologetic and understanding of how frustrating he seemed to find his experiences with 
calling Halifax that day. I think it was reasonable for her to offer to log a complaint, 
irrespective of whether she could have done that there and then, or whether she would have 
had to log it later. Whats important here is that she was clearly aware that Mr S was 
expressing dissatisfaction to the extent that offering to log a complaint was appropriate, and 
she did just that. 
Not calling at a convenient time 
Mr S provided Halifax with times when he was available to take calls. He explained that he 
works and so is not always free to take calls. When he complained, Mr S said the Halifax 
advisor should have phoned him at a better time. 
I can see that Mr S is specifically referring here to the call made to him by the advisor who 
dealt with this complaint and who talked through the complaint outcome with him. And, as I said above, complaint handling is not itself a regulated activity and so doesnt fall under this 
services remit. So I am not able to look into this complaint point. 
Account closure 
When Halifax responded to Mr Ss complaint about the customer service it provided, it told 
him it was closing both of his accounts. It said there have been instances in the past where 
the service it provided has fallen short of what Mr S is entitled to expect, and it has 
acknowledged and compensated him for this. It said the majority of Mr Ss complaints to it 
relate to service issues, but have rarely been the cause of quantifiable loss. Halifax said 
Mr Ss continued contact with it indicates his considerable dissatisfaction with the service it 
provides. It told Mr S its terms and conditions allow it to close his accounts at any time 
without giving a reason, if it feels it needs to. 
Mr S said Halifax shouldnt be allowed to consider previous complaints when deciding to 
close his account, as he doesnt think they are relevant. Mr S said there is nothing in the 
terms and conditions that cover this particular situation and that allows Halifax to close his 
accounts in these particular circumstances. And Mr S was concerned that he would lose 
money as he wouldnt get a bonus when one of the accounts matured. 
So Ive looked at whether Halifax acted fairly and in line with its terms and conditions when it 
closed Mr Ss accounts. And Im satisfied it did. Ill explain why. 
In its terms and conditions, Halifax outlines specific circumstances where it can close 
accounts without any notice. And Mr Ss situation is not one of the specific circumstances 
listed. But Halifax hasnt closed Mr Ss account without any notice. Its terms allow it to close 
accounts without providing a reason, as long as the appropriate amount of notice is given. 
The terms say 65 days notice must be given, and this is what Halifax gave Mr S. I can see 
that Halifax also provided Mr S with information about the steps he should take during the 
notice period to ensure a smooth transition to a new bank. And this is in line with what I 
would expect it to do. 
I know that Mr S was concerned about his previous complaints being taken into 
consideration by Halifax, when it decided to close his accounts. But Im satisfied its 
reasonable for Halifax to have looked quite broadly at its relationship with Mr S when it is 
deciding whether to continue to offer banking services. 
I can see why Mr S is unhappy that the accounts were closed, when one of them was 
relatively close to maturing. And Mr S said he would get a bonus when it matured. I agree its 
unfortunate timing but, as outlined above, Halifax can close accounts without giving a 
reason. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that it opted to close the accounts at that point in 
time with the intention of placing Mr S at a financial disadvantage. 
I know that my decision will disappoint Mr S, but Im satisfied Halifax acted fairly and in line 
with its terms and conditions when it closed his accounts and so I wont be asking it to take 
further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I am not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 Martina Ryan
Ombudsman