DRN-4392827
The complaint
Mr C makes a number of complaints about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
What happened
Mr C makes about 10 complaints about HSBC regarding a number of issues. The complaints 
follow Mr Cs secure keypad used for online banking failing. In summary Mr C says he was 
unable to use online banking for about six weeks, HSBC was unable to amend its security 
process and it send him passcodes with short expiry dates. There are other complaints 
which Mr C has listed which include his complaint that HSBC ought to be able to monitor the 
battery life of a keypad.
HSBC says Mr C deliberately failed its security process and its unable to monitor the battery 
life of a keypad. It says it has paid compensation for some of the problems and says it isnt 
responsible for the delivery of the mail.
Mr C brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary the investigator didnt think it reasonable for HSBC to be able to monitor the 
keypad battery life and thought it correct to end the call when Mr C failed its security 
questions. The investigator didnt think HSBC responsible for the delivery of the mail and 
that it had paid appropriate compensation.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and says other banks monitor battery life and he questions 
why HSBC cant simply correct a mistake during a security call. He says the compensation 
was for unrelated complaints.
I asked both sides for further information. HSBC says it paid £100 compensation for the 
problems with the security key. And £50 for an unrelated matter.
Mr C says the compensation was for loss of data.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont require HSBC to do anything 
further in the circumstances of this complaint. I appreciate Mr C will be disappointed by my 
decision and appreciate how strongly he feels about what took place. I hope it will assist Mr 
C if I explain our role here. We are not HSBCs regulator and so its not our role to direct it 
about how it operates. I say that as Mr C questions HSBC security policy. I find such matters 
are for a business to decide upon.
I also appreciate Mr C has listed 10 areas of complaint. I dont intend to repeat those 
complaint points and I will deal with what I consider the main points in this decision. I make 
clear to Mr C that I have read his detailed submissions to us.
Im satisfied that the problem here started when Mr Cs keypad battery failed. I cant fairly 
hold HSBC responsible for that and think it inevitable that at some point a battery will fail. I 
appreciate Mr C says other banks monitor usage and can monitor battery life. I cant fairly 
comment on that but can see HSBC makes clear it cant do so and I have not seen any 
evidence that it told Mr C that it could. So, I dont think HSBC made a mistake or acted 
unfairly in those circumstances and cant see what alternative it had but to either send a new 
keypad or make it available in branch. I accept that customers in those circumstances are 
caused inconvenience but that is not something I can fairly hold HSBC responsible for and 
think that other forms of banking are still available. I accept the account Mr C wanted to open 
required online access but cant see there was any real impact caused by what took place. I 
say that as Mr C would have been able to open the account when online access was 
restored.
There is no dispute here that HSBC sent Mr C new codes with expiry dates. I dont think 
HSBC made a mistake by doing so and, as I have made clear, such matters are for it to 
decide upon when exercising its commercial judgement. I appreciate that Mr C says he 
didnt receive them before they expired. But that is not something I can fairly hold HSBC 
responsible for as its not involved in the delivery of mail and isnt responsible for external 
factors that prevented the mail being delivered. I find there was an inevitable delay caused 
by this issue that neither side to this complaint was responsible for.
I have listened to the call between the parties in which Mr C failed HSBCs security 
questions. Im satisfied Mr C deliberately gave incorrect details which of course was his 
choice. I appreciate he may have been concerned about the call and if it was genuine. But I 
dont think HSBC made a mistake or acted unfairly by deciding not to procced with it. I 
appreciate Mr C says HSBC should be able to deal with such circumstances and cites an 
example of a genuine mistake. But this was a calculated response by Mr C and as I have 
previously made clear such decisions are for a business to make. I cant fairly hold HSBC 
responsible for any delay in resolving any issues caused by that call and I dont think HSBC 
exhibited any signs during that call that would result in a reasonable conclusion the call was 
a scam.
I can see that Mr C has been paid compensation and appreciate he says it was for a 
different complaint. I can see Mr C was paid £50 compensation for an unrelated issue about 
data being lost. HSBCs records say Mr C was paid £100 compensation for problems 
activating the security code. So, I think on balance HSBC has acknowledged that there were 
some issues with the activation of the codes which I think is fair and reasonable in 
circumstances which I accept are not clear. I also accept there is an overlap here about the 
complaints as they are clearly linked. And I accept HSBC ought to have been far more 
specific about what each compensation payment was for. But equally I have not seen 
evidence for example of financial loss and am satisfied online access was restored.
Overall, I appreciate Mr C was caused frustration and inconvenience. But Im satisfied that 
HSBC wasnt responsible for the main problems here. I accept there were issues with 
activating the codes which HSBC has accepted and paid what I think is appropriate 
compensation. I have not seen evidence of direct financial loss from Mr C that would justify 
further compensation and have made clear that the main complaint areas are not upheld. I 
find this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman