DRN-1693665
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy that Standard Life Assurance Limited have declined a claim she made on 
her income protection policy. 
What happened
Mrs D is a staff nurse and worked in the accident and emergency department. Due to a 
medical condition she was redeployed to a different department as she was no longer able 
to work in A&E. However, she lost a benefit she was paid for working unsocial hours which 
amounted to around £250 per month on average. Mrs D made a claim for the loss of income 
following her redeployment. 
Standard Life declined the claim as they said Mrs D was still working in her own occupation, 
but in a different department. So, they said she wasnt covered under the policy for the loss 
of the antisocial hours payments. Mrs D made a complaint to Standard Life. They didnt 
uphold the complaint as they didnt think the claim had been declined unfairly.
Mrs D made a complaint to our service and our investigator looked into what had happened. 
She didnt think the policy terms covered Mrs Ds circumstances, which she acknowledged 
were unusual. Mrs D asked an ombudsman to review her complaint. So I need to make a 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant policy terms and conditions 
The policy terms and conditions say that the benefit can be paid if the policyholder meets the 
definition of incapacity which is defined as the policyholder being unable to carry out the 
Material and Substantial Duties of their occupation because of illness or injury. 
The Material and Substantial Duties are defined as: 
the duties which are normally required for the performance of the Life Insureds 
Occupation and which cannot be reasonably omitted or replaced. 
Occupation is defined as:
the full-time occupation shown in the Personal Policy Schedule, or any other full-time 
occupation, by which the Life Insured was earning his living, immediately prior to 
incapacity.
The policy also says that a proportionate benefit can be paid in certain circumstances. It 
says:
if the Life Insured is incapacitated and suffers a loss in earnings, but has another 
occupation, or is in his own occupation on a part time basis, we will pay a proportion 
of the Full Benefit from the end of the Deferred Period, or at a later date if Full Benefit 
is already in payment.
Has Standard Life unfairly declined the claim?
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Standard Life has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Im not upholding Mrs Ds complaint because: 
The full-time occupation detailed on the Personal Policy Schedule is staff nurse. It 
doesnt indicate a specialism or particular department Mrs D worked in. So the 
insured occupation is Mrs Ds job as a staff nurse, not as an accident and emergency 
staff nurse 
Its not in dispute that Mrs D had to be redeployed because of her health or that she 
has experienced a drop in her income as she lost out on an uplift for working unsocial 
hours. However, shes still working full time in her insured occupation as a staff 
nurse, but in a different department. So, shes not changed her occupation or had to 
reduce her hours. Therefore, I dont think its unreasonable for Standard Life to 
decline to pay a proportionate benefit as the criteria in the policy isnt met
Ive taken into account what is said in the policy summary as Mrs D has pointed out 
that it says, the state of your health may mean you can only return to your old job on 
a part time basis and for less money. Or you may find another job but on a lower 
income. In either case if your income falls, we will normally pay you proportionate 
benefit. The actual amount you receive will also depend on the level of cover you 
originally choose. But this should be read in conjunction with the more detailed policy 
terms and conditions which included the detailed definition of occupation and how the 
proportionate benefit worked. And, as Ive outlined above, Mrs D wasnt working on a 
part time basis or receiving a lower salary. What shes lost is an enhancement for 
working unsocial hours. But, ultimately, shes still in her insured occupation, which is 
a staff nurse
Ive given careful thought to Mrs Ds point about the use of the word job in the policy 
summary and the actual policy definition of occupation. But I think the overall terms 
and conditions make it clear how the policy worked, what the insured occupation was 
and when a proportionate benefit should be paid. So, this doesnt change my 
thoughts about the outcome of this complaint.   
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman