DRN-3445051
The complaint
Mr S complains that when he checked his credit file in February 2021 that Barclays Bank UK 
PLC had registered 6 markers on his account which he was unaware of, and Barclays hadnt 
made sufficient effort to contact him. Mr S wants his credit file rectified as he and his wife 
were planning on starting a property portfolio but cant do so with his credit file like it is.
What happened
Mr S had a mortgage with Barclays and had issues making payments beginning in February 
2020. Barclays collected the contractual monthly payment (CMP) by direct debit (DD) at 
the beginning of each month. Barclays attempted to take the CMP on 3 February 2020 but 
there wasnt enough money in the account to take it. Mr S told Barclays on 4 February that 
he had transferred money to his account, but Barclays didnt collect the CMP by DD for that 
month despite issuing an arrears letter on 5 February, so the February CMP wasnt paid.
Mr S then applied for a three-month payment holiday that was agreed by Barclays which 
issued a letter confirming the payment deferral so that the CMPs for May, June and July 
wouldnt be collected.
In the letter, Barclays stated theyd automatically reinstate the DD at the end of the payment
deferral. However, the letter also said if Mr S cancelled the DD, theyd contact him
when the payment deferral was about to end with instructions on how to reinstate it. Barclays
contact notes on 4 May 2020 suggest the DD instruction was cancelled as requested by Mr 
S via his bank. During the payment deferral period, Mr S moved to a different home. Mr S 
says hes unsure of the date he moved but said it was around July 2020. So, Mr S didnt 
receive the letters Barclays sent on 14 July 2020 and 22 July 2020, when the payment 
deferral period was about to end. Mr S also says he doesnt remember notifying Barclays of 
his change of address, and Barclays have stated they were only notified of the change on 18 
May 2021.
When the payment holiday ended the CMP should have been paid. As the DD mandate 
wasnt reinstated, Barclays didnt collect the CMP through the DD mechanism and Mr S 
didnt make the CMP by other means. Mr S says that significant health issues prevented him 
managing his mortgage account and he didnt realise that the mortgage account was in 
arrears until when he was looking to buy a new house in early 2021when he became aware 
that his credit file had been affected and he made a complaint to Barclays.
Barclays responded in March 2021 to say that there was no bank error. It said that that Mr S 
was aware that his account was in arrears from February 2020, got a payment holiday and 
didnt resume payments from then. So, it says that it sent letters to Mr S from April 2020 
onwards and those letters were uploaded to online banking and so the bank had made Mr S 
reasonably aware of the status of his mortgage.
Our investigator analysed the account and took the view that there was money in Mr Ss 
account in February 2020 for the February payment and that Barclays should have re-
attempted the DD. This meant that Mr S missed at that time one payment on his account so 
the arrears letter he received dated 6 June 2020 was wrong which suggests two payments 
were missed. Our investigator noted that Mr S changed address in July 2020 but didnt tell 
Barclays until May 2021 as he was concentrating on his health issues. 
Our investigators view was that Barclays should remove the arrears marker from February 
2020 but that that otherwise Barclays had done nothing wrong. Barclays accepted our 
investigators view whilst noting that there was nothing reported on Mr Ss credit file for the 
missed payment in February. Mr S disagrees with our investigators view saying in summary 
that he has a serious medical condition which required medication and the serious side 
effects of the prescribed medication meant that during the period following the payment 
holiday that he was completely out of control of his life and finances and that Barclays 
should adjust his credit file accordingly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S didnt make payments on his mortgage following a payment holiday and Barclays 
recorded these missed payments, as is normal, with credit reference agencies. Part of the 
background is that when the payment holiday was agreed, Mr S cancelled the DD and did 
not renew it. Although Barclays sent Mr S letter advising him of the situation Mr S had left 
the property without informing Barclays. Mr S says at the time he was suffering from a 
medical condition and the side effects of medication which prevents him attending to his 
financial affairs.
I have to consider whether Barclays has done anything wrong. Barclays like other lenders 
provides monthly information to credit reference agencies as to whether payments are being 
made or not to customers accounts. The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) issued 
guidance to lenders on how arrears should be reported in a document: Principles for the 
Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults which we would expect Barclays to follow. 
The Principles require that data that is reported on Mr Ss credit file is fair, accurate, 
consistent , complete and up to date so that if Mr S didnt make a payment  as expected, 
information to reflect that would be recorded on Mr Ss credit file.
So, Barclays had a responsibility to provide accurate information - that payments were 
missed by Mr S to the credit reference agencies. Mr S says that he missed these payments 
because he was very ill and not able to deal with his affairs. Barclays wasnt informed of this 
until later and not at the time it was reporting the information to the credit reference 
agencies. I understand that Mr S is saying that it was unfair of the bank to report the 
payments he missed because of his condition. But it  is difficult to see how the bank was 
being unfair to Mr S if it was unaware at the time it made the report of any condition that 
affected Mr Ss ability to make the payments so I would have difficulty upholding this 
complaint on that basis.
Mr S has provided us with information about his condition. I have a report from a consultant 
neurologist dated November 2021 where he reports that Mr S suffered from epilepsy and 
had seizures on 18 and 25 August 2020. The neurologist saw Mr S on 30 August 2020 and 
treated him with medication. On 24 September Mr Ss epilepsy was under good control but 
Mr S had two further nocturnal seizures December 2020 and March 2021 and the consultant 
increased his medication on 29 April 2021. Mr S says that the medication had a serious side 
effect on him quoting from an NHS document:Serious side effects:
Signs of serious mental changes, or someone around you notices signs of confusion, 
sleepiness, loss of memory, forgetfulness, abnormal behaviour or uncontrolled movements
That document also says that very few people have serious side effects.
Mr S says The above serious side effect is particularly what I was experiencing since first 
seizure and taking my new medication all the way until March 2021, particularly strong 
confusion, sleepiness, loss of memory, forgetfulness. This incapacitated me from looking 
after myself, my basic needs, and certainly my finances or memory around what is what, as I 
was incapable of retaining information and constantly confused and forgetful.  
Mr S also has provided me recently with a report from a Psychotherapist who reported:
Prior to the grand mal seizure (in August 2020), he (Mr S) was experiencing mini 
seizures which were affecting his memory, Mr S did not appreciate something was 
wrong at the time as he experienced them as simple dj vu. 
Post seizure his functioning was greatly impacted; his short-term memory was negatively 
affected which caused day to day problems with functioning in areas of work and 
personal life, this caused depression, anxiety, and panic attacks as well. 
We worked through the neurological impact of the seizures and the side effects of the 
medication during this time, and how Mr S might cope with necessary adaptations during 
this difficult period. 
We continued to meet for 12 months and towards the end of this period he felt his 
memory and mental state return to its pre-seizure standard.
To see how this impacted Mr Ss ability to manage his finances, I asked to see Mr Ss bank 
accounts over this period. Mr S has supplied me with his bank statements. The bank 
statements relate to a Premier Account which Mr S uses to pay his bills. This is an actively 
managed account. If I look at the January/February 2021 statement for example there are 
six pages of transactions - £21,905 .27 is brought into the account and £23,160.64 pad out. 
The overdraft limit on this account is £1,150.00. The account is used to pay bills and money 
is periodically paid into the account to keep this account in credit. But because of the volume 
of the transactions and the low overdraft limit in relation to them, it requires a good deal of 
active management to stay inside the overdraft limit.  My view of this account is that Mr S is 
actively and regularly monitoring it and it is generally well managed. But Mr Ss ability to 
manage it simply doesnt support his view that he was incapable of looking after his finances 
during this time.
I do not underestimate that Mr Ss illness and his medication was debilitating for him. But this 
is a complaint that Barclays had done something wrong when it reported that he had not 
made payments for the period following the end of the payment holiday. To an extent this is 
a matter of fact - in fact Mr S hadnt made those payments. But I should consider whether 
Barclays had acted unfairly. It seems to have told Mr S by two letters in July that his 
payment holiday was coming to an end, what the new payments would be and asking him to 
contact Barclays. When Mr S didnt make payments, Barclays sent out letters about the 
arrears. These letters seem properly addressed to Mr S at the address Barclays believed Mr 
S resided. It seems that Mr S had changed address but hadnt told Barclays. But if Barclays 
was unaware of the new address or indeed that Mr S had moved address, I cant fairly 
blame Barclays if Mr S didnt get those notifications. Mr S says that he was incapable of managing his financial affairs during this period. But Mr 
S doesnt tell Barclays that during the period it was reporting the arrears and the evidence 
points to Mr S actively managing those financial affairs, so I cant fairly say that Barclays was 
recording the missed payments unfairly. As a result, I wont be asking Barclays to change 
what it reported on Mr Ss credit file during the period after the payment holiday came to an 
end. 
I recognise that with these arrears recorded on his credit file that it may affect Mr Ss ability 
to obtain credit and Mr S may want to look at a Notice of Correction on his credit file which 
would allow him to explain why a debt is showing up but not reflective of his general 
approach to meeting repayments. But for the reasons stated I am unable to uphold the main 
part of the complaint. I do agree with our investigator that if there were any arrears recorded 
because Barclays failed to collect the payment in February 2020 that it be removed from the 
credit file. Barclays tell me that non-payment was not recorded but Ive seen no evidence 
either way. I believe that the right approach is to uphold this complaint in part on that ground 
in case any arrears were reported but not uphold the main part of this complaint. 
Putting things right
Barclays should remove any report it made to credit reference agencies about the non-
payment of Mr Ss mortgage in February 2020. I do not require it to alter any other 
information it provided to the credit reference agencies.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to take 
the action referred to above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman