DRN-4370403
The complaint
The estate of Mrs S is unhappy with the process required by HSBC UK Bank Plc
surrounding the release of money belonging to the estate to the named executor.
This complaint is brought to this service on behalf of the estate by Mrs Ss son, who is the
sole executor and sole beneficiary of the estate, and whom Ill refer to as Mr K.
What happened
Sadly, in October 2022, the late Mrs S passed away. Mr K was named to sole executor and
sole beneficiary of Mrs Ss estate. However, Mr K resides overseas, and HSBCs policies
surrounding the release of estate money to executors living overseas includes that the
executor must send copies of personal identity documents to them that have been certified
at a British embassy or consulate located in the relevant overseas territory.
Mr K wasnt happy about this as the value of his mothers estate was relatively low, and
because he didnt live close to a consulate the cost of certifying his personal identity
documents at a consulate would be relatively high. And Mr K also wasnt happy that HSBC
were unwilling to make any exception to their policy on this matter. So, he raised a complaint
on the estates behalf.
HSBC responded to Mr K and explained that they werent willing to deviate from their policy.
Mr K wasnt happy with HSBCs response, so he referred the complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt it was for HSBC to set their
policies regarding such matters and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr K remained
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 25 August 2023 as follows:
While the review process for this service has been ongoing, HSBC have changed their 
position on this matter and have recently confirmed to Mr K that they will be releasing the 
money belonging to the estate to him. And HSBC have also agreed to pay an additional 
£350 to Mr K as an apology to him and to cover any expenses incurred and any potential 
loss of interest on the funds.
HSBCs resolution to this complaint seems reasonable to me, and I note the £350 payment
to Mr K corresponds to approximately 12% of the value of the estate - which is the same
percentage amount that Mr K explained to this service he was concerned he would have to
spend to comply with HSBCs requirement to have his documents certified at a consulate.
Mr K may point out that the reason HSBC have changed their position on this matter is
because he discovered that the UK consulate in the overseas territory in which he resides
doesnt offer a personal identity document certification service as HSBC appeared to have
expected it to offer. Ive verified that this is the case, and I note that the consulate refers UK
citizens looking to certify personal identity documents for banks to local solicitors or notaries.
And this means that even if Mr K had attempted to comply with HSBCs requirements, he
wouldnt have been able to do so.
But UK consulates in overseas territories often do offer such services  hence HSBCs
requirement for document certification at a consulate. And Mr K didnt attempt to comply with
HSBCs requirements but instead continued to argue against them.
Ultimately, its for HSBC to set their policies as to what they require from overseas
executors. And given that HSBC apply their policy to all overseas executors without
exception, I dont feel that HSBC did treat Mr K unfairly by insisting that he adhered to that
policy  while HSBC were of the understanding that it was possible for Mr K to do so.
Additionally, I feel that if it had been demonstrated to HSBC by Mr K that he was unable to
comply with their policy because the relevant service wasnt offered by the UK consulate in
the country in which he resides, then I feel HSBC would have offered an alternative solution
to him at that time.
Thankfully, the outcome that Mr K was seeking has now been agreed upon by HSBC. And in
consideration of the further £350 HSBC have agreed to pay Mr K, it must be noted that this
service cant award compensation to an estate for distress or upset. This is because an
estate is a legal entity and not a person, and so cant experience distress or upset.
Mr K may counter that he can experience distress and upset, and that he has. But Mr K isnt
the eligible complainant here, as per the DISP rules of the FCA Handbook by which this
service must abide. Instead, the eligible complainant is the estate of Mrs S.
This service can award compensation to an estate for inconvenience unfairly incurred by that
estate. But I dont feel that the estate of Mrs S has been unfairly inconvenienced here. This
is because Im satisfied that it was fair for HSBC to insist the Mr K comply with their
requirements. And because, in the absence of any information to the contrary, I feel it was
reasonable for HSBC to assume it was possible for Mr K to comply with their requirements.
All of which means that I feel that HSBCs recent decision to release the money belonging to
the estate to Mr K and to pay Mr K a further £350 already represents a fair resolution to
whats happened here. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or
instructing HSBC to take any further action.
Mr K has provided several detailed responses to my provisional decision. Id like to thank   
Mr K for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a discourtesy that I wont be 
responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive continued to focus on what I consider to be the 
key aspects of this complaint, in line with this services role as an informal dispute resolution 
service. 
 
This means that if Mr K notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Mr K and HSBC. Rather, it should be 
taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly 
in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
Mr K has explained that he feels he is an eligible complainant in his personal capacity under 
the DISP rules. But I dont agree, and I remain satisfied that the eligible complainant for this complaint is the estate of Mrs S. One reason for this is because Im satisfied that the HSBC 
process about which Mr K is unhappy  the requirement for him as the executor of the estate 
to verify his identity at a consulate  is a process that applied to him in his capacity as an 
executor of the estate of Mrs S. 
Mr K has also explained that he feels HSBC could have referenced an alternative process 
that was available to them regarding the certification of his documents. But Im satisfied that 
its for HSBC to set the processes they require executors based overseas to adhere to. And 
it isnt for Mr K, or indeed any individual, to require HSBC to apply an alternative process in 
any given circumstance.
All of which means that it remains my position that the actions that HSBC have already taken 
here have provided a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint. And it follows from this 
that my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and that I wont be instructing 
HSBC to take any further action.
I realise this might not be the outcome that Mr K was wanting, in either his personal capacity 
or in his capacity as the executor of the estate of Mrs S. But I hope that Mr K will understand, 
given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman