DRN-3165551
The complaint
Ms M has complained that 1st Stop Retail Finance (This was a trading name used at the 
time by a business called Oplo PL Ltd) provided her with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
1st Stop provided Ms M with a personal loan of £3,000.00 in May 2019. This loan had a 36-
month term with a monthly repayment amount of £120.84. This all meant the total amount 
repayable of £4350.24 was due to be repaid.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2021. Both parties have received 
a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the 
decision below. I said;
Were 1st Stops checks reasonable and proportionate?
1st Stop says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Ms M prior to 
providing her with this loan. It says it also carried out a credit check. 1st Stop says it verified 
Ms Ms income.
Ms Ms reason for applying for the loan was to pay off a short-term loan she had just taken 
out, as well as for a holiday. 1st Stop would have seen the short-term loan listed on the 
credit search it carried out. After Ms M declared her expenditure, 1st Stop calculated how 
much the outstanding loan repayments would be and assessed how much it though Ms Ms 
expenditure would be. It calculated that Ms M had disposable income of £790.41 and says it 
show the loan was comfortably affordable for her. 
But I think 1st Stop should have carried out further checks to verify Ms Ms expenditure and 
to verify what she was saying in order to make sure that she could sustainably repay the 
loan repayments over the term of the loan. I say this because, I agree with our investigator, 
there is credit impairment on the credit search it carried out, that I think ought to have given it 
concerns. It would have seen 2 defaults with unsettled balances that Ms M had not repaid. 
This would have been at odds with its assessment of her disposable income. In addition, it 
had calculated that Ms M had a debt to income ratio of 26%, quite a high figure for someone 
with a lot of disposable income each month. I think this ought to have alerted 1st Stop to 
have concerns as to whether Ms M could sustainably repay this loan, especially as the loan 
was over a 36-month term. I think 1st Stop on seeing the debt to income ratio being so high 
for Ms M and also seeing the default credit information, should have been looking to verify 
the expenditure amounts that Ms M had disclosed to satisfy itself that she could sustain the 
repayments.  
In conclusion and for the reasons given above, I dont think that the checks 1st Stop carried 
out before providing Ms M with his loan were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to 1st Stop that Ms M would 
have been unable to repay this loan?
I now need to go on and consider what reasonable and proportionate checks would have 
shown 1st Stop and whether it would have made a difference to the lending decision it took. 
Our service asked Ms N for bank statements from a period of time leading up to the loan 
application. This isnt the check that I am necessarily saying 1st Stop should have made 
when it agreed to lend to Ms M, but it does give me an idea as to what it would have seen if 
it had carried out further checks.
I have looked through the statements. I can see that there were no returned direct debits or 
unauthorised borrowing fees and I can see the account was well managed. I can also see 
Ms Ns living expenses were roughly in line with 1st Stops assessment. It had worked out 
that Ms N would have had disposable income of £790.41. So, I can see that based on its 
assessment, Ms N would have comfortably been able to afford the repayments for the loan. I 
can see that there were high levels of spend on Ms N account for non-essential spend. But 
there is nothing to suggest to me that she was at this stage dependent on credit or that she 
was having problems managing her finances. I havent seen anything within the bank 
statements provided by Ms N that would suggest to me that further checks and further 
verification of her expenditure would make the loan unaffordable. So, I dont currently think 
1st Stop irresponsibly agreed to this loan.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Both parties have not responded with any further comments or 
given a response to my findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have not made any further points. So, as neither party has anything further to 
add, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within my provisional decision. With 
that being the case, I do not uphold Ms Ms complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman