DRN-4361258
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the amount offered by Aviva Insurance Limited to settle a 
claim made under their home insurance policy. 
Reference to Mr and Mrs P includes anything said or done by their representative.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr and Mrs P got in touch with Aviva about crack damage to their home. Aviva 
appointed a loss adjuster, G, who accepted a claim for subsidence. After carrying out 
investigations and finding it was unable to remove a tree said to be causing the 
subsidence, G agreed to resolve the problem by underpinning the building and 
carrying out repairs.
G agreed for an engineer, W, to design the underpinning and prepare and cost a 
schedule of work. It did so and estimated the cost at around £225,000, excluding 
VAT. Another company estimated the cost at a higher figure.
Around this time, Mr and Mrs P discovered that their neighbours intended to 
demolish and rebuild their house. Given they were likely to face significant disruption 
to their own home, and from their neighbours, for a long period of time, Mr and Mrs P 
decided to sell their home and asked G to settle the claim by cash payment.
In November 2021, G made an offer to settle the claim for over £240,000. This 
included the cost of the building work based on Ws estimate, plus the expected 
costs of alternative accommodation and removals, all excluding VAT. Mr and Mrs P 
accepted the offer later that month.
G confirmed it had recommended the payment to Aviva in December but the 
payment wasnt made. In February 2022 G asked Mr and Mrs P to sign a form of 
discharge for the payment to be made. They did so later that month.
Payment still wasnt made, and Aviva withdrew the offer. G said it had made an error 
and its offer may have over-indemnified Mr and Mrs P because the schedule of work 
contained unjustified costs, provisional sums, and other excessive items.
Mr and Mrs P complained. Aviva accepted it had caused a loss of expectation by 
making and withdrawing the claim settlement offer and offered £100 compensation.
Mr and Mrs P didnt think this was fair. As theyd agreed to the offer in full and final 
settlement, they thought it had become legally binding and Aviva was bound to pay it. 
They took legal advice which supported their point of view. They sold their home in 
April 2022.
Aviva reconsidered the matter and paid a reduced settlement of around £165,000 in 
May 2022. It also added six months of interest to this amount to cover the period of 
time during which it had recalculated the offer.
Mr and Mrs P referred their complaint to this Service. They thought the original offer 
was binding and Aviva should fulfil it. They asked for Aviva to pay the difference 
between the original and the reduced offer, plus interest.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said Aviva was 
obliged to pay a fair cash settlement  and he thought the evidence showed Avivas 
revised offer fulfilled that obligation. He said the compensation offered was 
reasonable for the loss of expectation suffered by Mr and Mrs P.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed with our investigator and asked for their complaint to be 
referred to an Ombudsman. In summary, they said:
oThis Service isnt required to follow the law and can consider whats fair and 
reasonable. But we should consider that a formal offer was made and 
accepted and that amounted to a contractual agreement  which Aviva broke.
oEven if that point were set aside, Avivas revised offer was unreasonable. It 
had arbitrarily removed a number of items from the schedule of work. And it 
had replaced the cost of alternative accommodation and removals with the 
cost of a temporary kitchen  even though Mr and Mrs P couldnt be expected 
to live at the property whilst work was ongoing.
oAviva had plenty of time to review and check Gs proposed offer before 
putting it to Mr and Mrs P. And G had been clear that it had provided a 
breakdown of the offer to Aviva prior to putting it to Mr and Mrs P. So its clear 
a full review had been carried out before the original offer was made.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Aviva accepted the claim was covered by the policy and both 
parties agreed a cash settlement was an appropriate way to settle the claim in 
principle. So I wont comment on these points any further.
The dispute is about how much Aviva should pay to settle the claim. The key 
questions for me are whether its original offer was binding and what a fair and 
reasonable amount for the claim settlement would be. Ill also consider whether there 
is anything else Aviva should do to reach a fair and reasonable outcome.
Was Avivas offer binding?
The key point Mr and Mrs P have made is that Aviva was legally required to pay its 
original offer because it had made a binding agreement to do so.On the other hand, Aviva says it made a mistake when it presented Mr and Mrs P 
with its original offer. It considers it has the right to correct that mistake by revising its 
offer  and paying compensation for the impact of that mistake.
Mr and Mrs P took legal advice from a solicitor Ill refer to as N. In summary, N 
thought the agreement was binding. I think the following points they made are key:
The form of discharge was a valid offer and it was accepted by Mr and Mrs P.
It recorded an agreement for Aviva to pay Mr and Mrs P £242,556.11 in full 
and final settlement of the subsidence claim. It was not subject to any other 
contingencies.
There was no mistake of fact or law which voided the agreement.
An error of judgement and/or a mistake caused by one partys carelessness 
or negligence doesnt void or otherwise change the agreement.
Only a mistake which fundamentally changed the subject matter of the 
agreement could void or otherwise change it.
G had the estimate based on Ws schedule of work and had the opportunity to 
raise any issues with it before making an offer.
Whilst Aviva considers its entitled to withdraw the offer and put right its mistake, it 
hasnt challenged the legal position set out by N or raised any legal arguments and/or 
case law to support its position.
I am required to take into account relevant law when deciding what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint. Given the nature of this 
complaint, Ive considered the relevant law in contract, particularly in relation to 
mistakes in respect of settlement agreement contracts in an insurance context.
Where Aviva has made a mistake in its offer to settle the claim, and that offer has 
been accepted by Mr and Mrs P, Aviva couldnt normally escape the settlement 
agreement contract on the basis that it didnt intend to settle for the amount set out in 
that agreement. 
However, there are circumstances where Aviva could treat the settlement agreement 
contract as void or as effective on the terms it intended. For example, where Mr and 
Mrs P had accepted the offer in the knowledge that the terms differed from what 
Aviva intended.
But I dont consider these circumstances have arisen here. Thats because I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs P knew, or ought to have known, that G 
intended to make a lower offer but mistakenly made a higher one. 
 
Prior to asking Mr and Mrs P to sign the form of discharge, G was clear that it had 
agreed the offer with Aviva and that it had asked Aviva to process the payment. 
So Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs P were ever given the impression G had made, or 
even might have made, a mistake when setting out the offer. On the contrary, they 
were given the impression they would receive the payment imminently, which I think 
indicates G and Aviva were confident the offer was correct.
Ive also considered whether the settlement agreement contract was entered into 
based on a fundamental mistake such that it is likely to be void. An example of a fundamental mistake in a contract would be where there was no 
underlying insurance agreement between the parties, or Aviva could show the nature 
of the loss settled by the agreement would not have fallen within the scope of the 
insurance policy. In this case, I dont consider it likely a mistake as to the settlement 
amount was a fundamental one because this would not remove the basis for the 
contract. Aviva has not argued such a mistake arises in this complaint in any event. 
Therefore, taking into account relevant law, Ns legal arguments, Avivas position, 
and the particular circumstances of the complaint, I consider it is likely the full and 
final agreement set out in the form of discharge accepted by Mr and Mrs P was 
binding. That means Aviva couldnt escape that contract for settlement on the basis 
that it made a mistake as to what would be a fair settlement amount. 
However, I do have scope to depart from the law where I consider it would be fair 
and reasonable to do so in all the circumstances. So Ive gone on to consider 
whether it would be appropriate for me to do so taking into account Avivas point that 
it would not be fair and reasonable for it to pay the amount it previously agreed to 
under the settlement agreement contract on the basis it would over indemnify Mr and 
Mrs P. 
Whats a fair and reasonable amount for the cash settlement?
Aviva says this would be the reduced offer. Firstly, because the schedule of work 
contained items that werent required, hadnt been justified, or were provisional sums. 
And secondly, because Aviva notes Mr and Mrs P have since sold their home, 
without carrying out any work. So it considers the financial loss to them is the loss of 
value of their home as a result of the subsidence damage. Aviva doesnt believe that 
loss of value is greater than the reduced offer  and Mr and Mrs P havent provided 
any evidence to suggest otherwise. Aviva has noted Mr and Mrs Ps point that they 
agreed a sale price for their home based on the original offer. It accepts that it would 
be unjust for Mr and Mrs P to suffer financially if the revised offer impacted any 
binding agreement theyd made. Aviva has invited Mr and Mrs P to set out any such 
impact, but they havent done so.
Mr and Mrs P argue that their choice to take a cash settlement has saved Aviva a 
significant sum of money. They note the lowest cost estimate of £225,000 was based 
on a desktop assessment and they say it didnt take into account all the costs a 
builder would actually face in completing the work. They note the only builder who 
visited the property estimated the cost at over £250,000. And bearing in mind the 
costs of alternative accommodation, removals, and the rise in building costs over 
time, they expect Aviva would likely have paid over £300,000 had the work gone 
ahead.
Whilst I note Avivas point that Mr and Mrs P havent set out a financial loss over and 
above the reduced offer as a result of selling their home, the loss of value due to 
subsidence isnt the method by which Aviva offered to settle the claim  originally or 
when it reduced the offer. At both times, Aviva was estimating what it thought the 
likely cost of building work and associated costs would be. Since this is how Aviva 
itself has chosen to settle the claim, even when it knew the work wouldnt go ahead 
as the house was going to be sold, I dont see any reason to change that method of 
settlement now.
The next step is to consider why Aviva reduced the settlement  and whether thats 
fair.W initially estimated the cost of work at around £225,000. Aviva has reduced it to 
around £160,000. Its provided a spreadsheet to show which items have been 
removed or reduced from Ws estimate. But it does very little to explain why that 
should be the case. Most of these items have written next to them not required but 
without any elaboration as to why that might be. Some of these items have no 
comments whatsoever. Im not satisfied any of this is sufficient to justify removal or 
reduction of items.
A few items do have a brief explanation and some of those seem to have merit. For 
example, around £7,000 for insurance that Aviva says the builder should already 
have. So there may be some items which can justifiably be removed or reduced from 
Ws estimate, perhaps around 10-15%.
Ws was a desktop estimate. Generally I think an estimate based on seeing the 
building and the site first hand is likely to be more accurate, so the builders estimate 
is likely to be a better reflection of the costs involved in the work. It was around 15% 
more than Ws. I think that means any justifiable deductions are broadly balanced out 
by the difference in cost. So overall, it seems reasonable based on the available 
evidence to estimate the likely cost of the work if carried out at the time was around 
£225,000.
The original offer also included £15,000 for alternative accommodation and around 
£4,000 for removals. The reduced offer replaced these amounts with £7,500 for a 
kitchen pod. The rationale behind this change is unclear. The extent of repair 
planned for the property was significant, including underpinning a considerable area. 
Its likely these repairs would have taken many months to complete. So its highly 
unlikely that it would have practical or reasonable for Mr and Mrs P to remain at 
home with this work ongoing for a prolonged period of time. I dont agree the 
reduction was reasonable.
Taking all of this into account, Im not satisfied Aviva has shown that Mr and Mrs P 
would have been over indemnified by its original offer. It seems likely that offer would 
broadly have been a reasonable estimate of the necessary costs, including the work, 
alternative accommodation and removals. As thats the method of settlement Aviva 
chose, that amount looks like a fair and reasonable cash settlement in the 
circumstances.
Overall, Im satisfied the original agreement to pay £242,556.11 is likely to be 
binding, taking into account relevant law, so I consider it fair and reasonable for Aviva 
to settle the claim under the terms of that agreement by paying the remainder. And 
even if Im wrong about the likely binding nature of the settlement agreement, Im 
satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for Aviva to pay the originally agreed amount 
in full as a fair and reasonable estimate of the claim value in all the circumstances. 
Therefore, I dont consider it appropriate to depart from the relevant law which is 
likely to apply in the circumstances. 
As Avivas original offer was £242,556.11 and its reduced payment was £166,953.29, 
that leaves a difference of £75,602.82 to pay.
Is there anything else Aviva should do to reach a fair and reasonable outcome?
Aviva paid the reduced settlement in May 2022 and added six months of interest to it. 
That covers the period of delay in making that payment since Mr and Mrs P accepted the original offer in November 2021. As Aviva caused Mr and Mrs P to be without this 
money unfairly for around six months, Im satisfied this payment of interest was a 
reasonable remedy.
For the reasons given in the section above, Ive provisionally found that Aviva should 
fulfil its original offer  and that means paying an additional £75,602.82. As this 
amount should also have been paid in November 2021 and Mr and Mrs P have been 
without that money unfairly in the meantime, Im satisfied interest should be added 
from November 2021.
Its accepted that Mr and Mrs P suffered a loss of expectation as a result of Avivas 
mistake. They were led to believe the claim would be settled based on the original 
offer  but they received significantly less. That would have caused them avoidable 
distress. And it was compounded by the time it took Aviva to deal with this matter, 
leaving Mr and Mrs P with a great deal of uncertainty for longer than they should 
have been.
Aviva has offered £100 compensation. The interest it has paid already, and will go on 
to pay, is a fair remedy for Mr and Mrs P being without the money for extended 
periods. For the loss of expectation and uncertainty caused by Aviva, Im satisfied 
£100 compensation is fair and reasonable. If its already been paid, Aviva need not 
doing anything further on this point.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P said they had nothing further to add as they considered my provisional 
decision an accurate and objective summary of the case.
Aviva didnt reply.
As neither party challenged my provisional decision or provided any further evidence or 
comments for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from my earlier findings or discuss 
them further.
I remain satisfied theyre a fair and reasonable remedy to the complaint for the reasons 
given above.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Pay £75,602.82.
Pay interest on this amount at 8% simple per year, from November 2021 to the date 
of settlement*.
Pay £100 compensation if it hasnt done so already.
*If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs P how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs P a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman