DRN-3842824
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd declined a claim 
for her dogs treatment as they said it was a pre-existing condition. She doesnt agree and 
wants them to pay her claim.
What happened
Mrs B has insurance for her dog with C&G. Her policy started on 17 September 2020 and 
clearly states that pre-existing conditions arent covered.
In September 2021 Mrs B noticed her dog was reluctant to climb the steps up to her front 
door or to jump up. When examined by her vet he was thought to possibly bit a bit reactive 
over his lumbar spine, and a possible soft tissue injury was suspected.
The dog was seen again a couple of days later as Mrs B had noticed a deterioration in his 
mobility. When examined the vet found he was a little lame in his left hind leg, and he was 
lifting the leg off the ground. Some pain was noted over the lumbar spine and possibly the 
left hip. Mrs B was told that there could be some nerve pain or sciatica, or her dog could be 
developed intervertebral disc disease. Medication was prescribed and if he deteriorated the 
vet wanted to consider x-rays or a CT scan.
As the dog didnt improve, he was referred for further investigations on 13 October 2021. He 
was seen by a specialist vet on 19 October 2021 when Mrs B reported that his walking 
seemed to have improved. X-rays of the dogs hips and stifles didnt show any obvious 
problem and it was thought his lameness might be secondary to an intervertebral disc 
extrusion. An MRI scan was discussed but as his neurological examination was normal and 
Mrs B had noted a recent improvement, continued medical management was agreed.
Mrs B then submitted a claim for the cost of her dogs treatment and investigations. The 
claim was declined by C&G as they said the dogs problems were due to a pre-existing 
condition. In support of this they referred to entries in the dogs clinical records dated 12 
September 2014 and 10 August 2018. 
On 12 September 2014 the dog was seen for his second vaccination. The notes say been 
limping since Monday on LH (they think but not sure if Rh) but not today. Advise monitor if 
comes back see vet. And on 10 August 2018 the dog was seen as Mrs B said hed been 
lame on his right front leg for two days and was whimpering occasionally. She reported that 
this was intermittent. Nothing abnormal was noted on examination and medication was 
prescribed.
After her claim was declined Mrs Bs vet contacted C&G to confirm that they didnt consider 
the condition her dog was treated for in October 2021 was linked to the left hind leg 
lameness noted in September 2014.
C&G didnt change their mind about declining the claim, so Mrs B raised a complaint. This 
wasnt upheld as C&G maintained that her dog had a pre-existing condition based on the 
earlier entries in his clinical records.
Mrs B then complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case and upheld Mrs 
Bs complaint. He said he believed when taking out her policy Mrs B had answered the 
questions put to her accurately. She was asked if she wanted cover for any pre-existing 
condition and shed answered no, which he thought was reasonable. And he didnt think it 
was fair for C&G to decline her claim based on the entries in the dogs clinical records in 
September 2014 and August 2018. These entries refer to a limp, affecting different limbs, but 
on each occasion this appears to have been a short-lived problem, as theres no mention of 
it again. 
In October 2021 the dogs symptoms were thought to be related to a disc extrusion. And as 
theres no medical evidence to link this to the short-lived episode of limping in September 
2014 to the dogs condition in October 2021, our investigator didnt think C&G had shown 
there was a pre-existing condition. So he said C&G should settle Mrs Bs claim and pay her 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delays in handling her claim.  
Mrs B accepted our investigators opinion, but C&G didnt. They said Mrs B had sufficient 
information when taking out her policy to understand what they regarded as a pre-existing 
condition. And as her dog had been treated for lameness before shed taken out her policy, 
her claim had been correctly declined by them. 
The case has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Bs policy doesnt provide cover for pre-existing conditions. And it defines these as Any 
diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or Associated Condition which has happened or 
has shown Clinical Signs of Symptoms of existing in any form before the Policy Start Date or 
within the Waiting Period. 
C&G are aware of our approach in respect of pre-existing conditions. And that we consider it 
fair for an insurer to decline a claim where a consumer had reasonable knowledge, when 
taking out the policy of something that they may need to claim for in the future.
Prior to the policy being taken out Mrs Bs dog had shown signs of lameness on two 
occasions and both were short-lived. In September 2014 the dog was only about four 
months old and was having his second round of vaccinations. Mrs B mentioned to the vet 
that hed been limping on his left hind leg, or possibly right hind leg, for a couple of days. But 
he hadnt been limping that day. She was advised to monitor him and if the problem came 
back to see the vet.
Then on 10 August 2018 the dog was seen by a vet as hed been intermittently lame on his 
right front leg for two days. Nothing abnormal was found on examination, he was prescribed 
medication and Mrs B was told he should rest.
These are the only references in the dogs clinical records before October 2021 to any 
problems with his limbs. And on each occasion theres a single entry only and no reference 
to ongoing problems or follow-up consultations. Mrs B is clearly someone who cares for her 
dog, and I think if hed had any ongoing problems shed have taken him back to her vet.
In October 2021 the dogs problems were thought to be related to an intervertebral disc 
protrusion, although this wasnt confirmed as x-rays didnt shown any abnormality. And as 
the condition improved with rest and medication an MRI scan wasnt arranged.What I have to decide is whether based on two very short-lived episodes of lameness in 
September 2014 and August 2018, Mrs B would have had reasonable knowledge in April 
2020, when she took out her policy that shed have to claim for investigations of a possible 
disc protrusion. And I dont think I can say that she had.
These episodes lasted a couple of days only and were four years apart. The first episode 
related to the left, or possibly right hind leg, and the second to the right front leg. Theres no 
indication in the dogs clinical records of an ongoing problem and Mrs Bs vet has said the 
episodes arent related to the condition the dog was treated for in October 2021.  
The onus is on C&G to show that there was a pre-existing condition and I dont think theyve 
done this. They havent provided any veterinary evidence to show the episodes in 2014 and 
August 2018 are linked to the dogs condition in October 2021. And the treating vet says 
theyre not linked.
It follows that Im not persuaded that Mrs Bs dog had a pre-existing condition when she took 
out her policy with C&G. So I dont think C&G acted fairly when they declined her claim for 
her dogs treatment and investigations in October 2021.
Following my review of the case I asked the investigator to contact the parties to let them 
know I intended to award 8% interest on any sums Mrs M had paid to her vet. And increase 
the award for distress and inconvenience to £150. Mrs M has confirmed that shes happy 
with this. C&G havent made any comment.
So to put things right I require C&C to pay Mrs Bs claim for her dogs treatment, the sum of 
£893.85, subject to any applicable policy excess, together with 8% interest on any sums 
shes paid from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Mrs B has told us about the stress and worry caused by C&Gs handling of her claim, and I 
accept what shes said. Taking everything into account I think the appropriate level of 
compensation for distress and inconvenience is £150. I know Mrs B has raised how long its 
taken C&G to respond to her complaint. But complaint handling isnt a regulated activity so I 
cant take that into account. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Bs complaint about 
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd. 
And to put things right I require them to pay her claim for her dogs treatment, in the sum of 
£893.85, subject to any applicable policy excess, together with 8% interest on any sums 
shes paid from the date of payment until the date of settlement. And to pay her £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience shes experienced as a result of how they handled her claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman