DRN-4030724
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC branch staff gave her wrong information 
about a Help to Buy Individual Savings Account (ISA). 
What happened
Miss H took out a Help to Buy ISA in April 2018, and closed the ISA on 19 January 2021 
when she found a property she wanted to buy. A balance of £7,069.08 was transferred to 
Miss Hs current account with Barclays, and then transferred from that account on the same 
day. 
Miss H says that the purchase of the property unfortunately fell through in mid-May 2021. 
Not long after, Miss H says she approached Branch A because she was panicking that with 
the account being closed she would lose out on the government bonus she had worked to 
save for. Miss H says the branch told her she just needed to keep hold of the statement. 
A couple of months later Miss H said while she was out shopping she went into another 
branch to ask again about the account because she was still worried about the account not 
being open. Miss H says that the staff at Branch B also said she just needed to keep her 
statement. 
On 28 October 2022 Miss H contacted Barclays. Barclays notes record that Miss H told 
them two branches had said she should just keep the statement and it wasnt possible to 
reopen her account. The Barclays agent told Miss H an ISA could be reopened and shed 
need the Purchase Failure Notice (PFN) from her solicitor. The agent suggested Miss H go 
back to make a complaint at the branch in question. 
Its understood that Miss Hs PFN is dated 28 October 2022. 
Miss H has said the PFN was obtained late, as it wasnt something she thought she needed, 
and it was only through the solicitor more recently exchanging and completing that this was 
sorted out. 
Barclays reviewed Miss Hs concerns, but did not uphold her complaint as they said there 
was no evidence to suggest the bank had given Miss H wrong information. They explained 
that a Help to Buy ISA cannot be reopened after 12 months, and the government bonus 
cannot be claimed once the ISA has been closed for 12 months. 
Miss H didnt accept Barclays conclusions, and said she was aware  as an ex-staff 
member  that Barclays were not complying with regulatory guidelines to treat their customer 
fairly, and so she brought her concerns to this service. 
Our Investigator did not uphold Miss Hs complaint. In summary, they said Miss H had 
documentation available to her that confirmed a Help to Buy ISA could not be reopened 12 
months following closure, and set out what was needed to reopen the account within the 12 
months. The Investigator also said there was no evidence to support that Barclays had told 
Miss H the account could not be reopened. 
Miss H strongly disagreed. To summarise, Miss H felt she had relied on what shed been told 
by two different branches. She said it was reasonable for her to place her trust in the branch 
staff who had reassured her that there was nothing for her to do as there was no risk to her 
losing the associated benefits with this ISA. Miss H said it made no sense for her to have 
spent that time saving the money and then not try and reopen the account in order to avoid 
losing the benefits. 
As a resolution could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive only included a summary of events above, but Id like to reassure the parties that Ive 
looked at all the available evidence and submissions. 
Ive noted Miss H believes it is for this service to protect and compensate people and to not 
side with the financial giants. While I note Miss Hs frustrations and what shes said, it may 
help if I explain that the role of this service is to resolve individual complaints on the basis of 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of each case - so the Financial 
Ombudsman Service is not a consumer champion, but an impartial dispute resolution 
service.
Ive considered the product in question - a Help to Buy ISA  and how it works. 
Help to Buy ISAs were a government incentive to help first time buyers get on the property 
ladder, and are now no longer available to new customers. By meeting the requirements of 
the ISA, the government would pay a 25% bonus upon completion of a property purchase 
based on the sum in the ISA at the time. The bonus was something that the individuals 
solicitor or conveyancer would need to claim, and if the property sale did not go through then 
the solicitor or conveyancer would give the individual a document called a PFN to confirm 
the purchase had not completed. By taking the PFN to the bank or building society, it would 
be possible for a Help to Buy ISA to be opened and to re-deposit the amount the ISA was 
closed with. However, the terms of the scheme meant that the bonus had to be applied for 
within 12 months of the account closing, or the account re-opened within 12 months. 
Miss H has said throughout that Barclays branch staff gave her wrong information as they 
did not make her aware of the 12-month time-limit for re-opening the account, or that this 
was something she could do when she approached them about the account. 
I understand Miss Hs frustrations with this, and I have carefully considered her submissions 
including what she has said about her motivation for ensuring she did not lose the benefits of 
the account into which she had been saving for nearly three years. I dont underestimate that 
this was important to Miss H, and that the money in question means a lot to her. 
However, as Ive mentioned, I have to reach a decision based on what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of the case. In this case the evidence available is limited, so the matter 
in hand becomes a question of who may or may not have said something. When the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  which, in other words, means I base it on what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened given the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Unfortunately there are no records of Miss H visiting the branches, or what may have been 
discussed between Miss H and the branch staff at either Branch A or Branch B. So this makes it very difficult for me to know exactly what Miss H may have asked the branch staff, 
and what the branch staff may have told her in return. Ive therefore also considered the 
wider circumstances, and having done so Im aware there was documentation about the 
account available to customers. 
Barclays have provided a copy of a welcome letter dated 30 April 2018 addressed to Miss H 
at the address which she has also provided to our service. So I think it was  more likely 
than not  correctly addressed.
The letter asks that the customer carefully reads the enclosed terms and conditions of the 
account. The terms and conditions include a section titled Closure of your account. This 
includes section 7.6 which says, Subject to providing us with a Purchase Failure Notice 
within 12 months of the Account Closing Date we will re-open your Help to Buy:ISA and 
permit to be paid into your Help to Buy: ISA all of the funds that had been held in that Help to 
Buy: ISA as at the date that it was closed. 
Following closure of the account, a closing statement for the account was issued (to the 
same address) and this included a section titled, Reopening your account. This said, If your 
property purchase doesnt complete, you can ask us to reopen your Help to Buy:ISA and 
reinstate your Closing Balance. 
Your request will need to be: 
made to us within 12 months of the Account Closing Date: and 
accompanied by a Purchase Failure Notice which youll need to get from your Eligible 
Conveyancer. 
Further information about reopening is available in the Scheme Rules which can be obtained 
from [the government website]. 
The closing statement also notes that information about the government scheme rules were 
also available to the public online. 
Miss H says she did not receive the attached terms and conditions with the welcome letter, 
and said it was unfair to expect someone to have to read the small print. And Miss H said 
she had not received the relevant page of the closing statement either. 
Barclays provided screenshots to support that the two documents were posted to Miss H, 
but also accessible to her through her online and mobile phone banking. Barclays also 
provided evidence to show that Miss H used both of these channels for her banking. Miss H 
also references the statement in her submissions and the need to keep it. 
Based on the evidence available I think Miss H - more likely than not - had access to the two 
documents in question which explained what could be done after the account was closed. 
And while Ive considered Miss H says certain pertinent pages were missing, based on the 
evidence and submissions available, Ive not seen enough to support that both the 
documents that were sent, and the documents online were missing these pages. This 
information was not insignificant and I think it was - more likely than not  accessible to Miss 
H. As well as the information available online about the governments scheme.
I note Miss H has said the terms and conditions are small print and it is unfair for customers 
to find the information, but the section is titled Closure of your Account so I think the heading 
would have helped to find the relevant information. The welcome letter also highlighted the 
importance of reading the terms and conditions. That said, the more recent document  the 
closing statement  I think did clearly set out what was required under the heading Reopening your account. On balance I find it difficult to say Barclays  more likely than not  
misled Miss H, or gave her wrong information. 
While I recognise Miss H will be unhappy with my findings, its not my intention to cause 
Miss H any more distress and I am pleased to note that Miss H has since been able to 
purchase her first home. However, on balance, Ive not seen enough to persuade me that 
Barclays have done something wrong here so I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Miss Hs complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman