DRN-4174009
The complaint
Ms B complains she has been treated unfairly by Zopa Limited when it closed its peer to 
peer (P2P) lending platform. She says she hasnt been fairly compensating for the value of 
her investment. 
What happened
Ms B invested through Zopas P2P lending platform earing interest on the capital she 
committed for lending.  
On 7 December 2021, Zopa advised investors that it would be stopping consumer 
investments and transferring all loans to its newly formed parent company. It proposed to 
buy Ms Bs loan portfolio at current face value (plus any interest that borrowers had already 
paid up to the date of sale) and said shed receive her investment balance back by 31 
January 2022.
Ms B complained as she felt the decision had treated her unfairly and didnt think Zopas 
terms allowed it for it to take this action. She said she had lost out on interest payments and 
further opportunity to invest. She requested all interest on her loans to paid up to the actual 
end of each individual loan and compensation for future loses of the opportunity to reinvest. 
She also asked to be allowed to close a three-year fixed term savings account which she 
opened in October 2021 as she could no longer have a long-term investment relationship 
with Zopa. 
Zopa didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it said:
Due to changes within the P2P sector, it made the difficult decision to close its P2P 
business. Tighter regulation within the sector made it challenging to grow its P2P 
business while remaining commercially viable.
The Zopa Principles say it is able to purchase loans at face value. This isn't a change 
to the Principles as the right to buy the portfolio was already covered as part of the 
contingency planning. Ms B is unable to opt out of the sale of her portfolio  and it 
won't be looking to offer any kind of compensation for the interest that could have 
been awarded had the platform not been closed.
In respect of Ms Bs request to withdraw from the three-year fixed term savings 
account, this isn't something its able to allow. The closure of the P2P platform holds 
no bearing over the fixed term part of the business.
As Ms B didnt agree with this response. She referred her complaint to this service for an 
independent review. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She didnt uphold it. 
In summary she said:
In closing its P2P platform, Zopa made a decision to acquire Ms Bs active loans at 
face value, which included any loans in arrears. While this did mean Ms B could no 
longer benefit from any future interest payments, her money was no longer exposed 
to risk and was available for her to withdraw and invest elsewhere. 
There was no requirement for Zopa to have consulted Ms B prior to this decision 
being taken. The Zopa Principles which constitutes the terms and conditions 
applicable to the investment, allow Zopa the right to buy the portfolio at face value, so 
she didnt agree that Zopa has breached the agreement.
While Ms B is disappointed that she can no longer receive the interest that may have 
been payable on her loans (and any future reinvestment), it is important to note that 
with any loan, there was always a possibility that a borrower would repay early or go 
into default and so future interest payments are never guaranteed.
Given her findings, she didnt think Zopa needed comply with Ms Bs request to 
withdraw her savings from a fixed rate account she opened in 2021.
Ms B didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for a decision to be made by an 
ombudsman. She provided further submissions  in summary she said:
She was induced to invest in a fixed term saving product when Zopa knew it was ending 
P2P investments, but it had failed to inform the investors so that they could make a properly 
informed decision. Zopa must have known that a significant proportion of P2P investors had 
invested due to the ethics and ethos of P2P lending and therefore would not have invested 
in other long-term products if they had known that their original P2P investment was ending.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zopa has provided the reasons why it decided to close its P2P platform to retail customers. It 
says this was essentially due to commercial viability, market conditions and challenges 
brought about by regulation. So, it appears Zopa was exercising its commercial judgement 
when deciding whether its P2P platform was viable on an ongoing basis. This is something it 
is able to do and not something I am able to make judgement on. But I can consider whether 
Ms B has been treated fairly in how her investments have been administered as a result of 
this decision. 
As a starting point, Ive reviewed Zopas Investor Principles and note the contents of the 
section relating to ending the agreement. Amongst other things this explains if Zopa wants to 
end the agreement it will give 30 days notice to lenders. They go on to say that any 
outstanding loans may either be sold on the secondary market, or to Zopa or a third party if it 
has implemented its wind-down plan. This section explains that there may be circumstances 
where it is unable to continue to operate the platform and have to wind-down the business. It 
gives examples such as changes in regulation that mean it cant operate in a sustainable 
and profitable manner. 
So, this suggests Zopa had a broad discretion in terms of closing the platform and selling Ms 
Bs loans. I accept Ms B had a desire to remain invested and her dissatisfaction with the 
decision made. But ultimately, this wasnt something she could influence, and I dont think 
Zopa has treated her unfairly or that it has acted outside of the Investor Principles in making 
this decision. 
Ms B disputes she was given notice of the platform closure. But she was informed on the 7 
December 2021 of Zopas intention to close the platform and sell her loans, and this would 
be completed by the 31 January 2022. So, it does appear the early December notice was 
Zopa telling her in advance of its attention to close the platform. I note her comments that 
Zopa must have had awareness that it was considering this course of action, but I dont think 
it is reasonable to say it should have given prior notice until the decision was formally made 
on how it intended to close the platform. I can understand why Ms B feels Zopa has acted unfairly by not providing her with the ability 
to remain invested  and thus losing out on future interest payments from borrowers and 
reinvestment opportunities. But I dont think there has been a failing here. And in any case 
even if I were to accept there was a failing, I dont think overall Ms B has been treated 
unfairly or suffered a loss. Ill explain why. 
Zopas approach to repaying loans involved Ms B receiving her capital back for loans and 
interest that had been acquired. The benefit of taking this course of action was it gave a 
quick guaranteed return of capital on loans  including those that had late payments. The 
risk of default on loans with payment problems is heightened, so the fact capital was 
returned on these loans was beneficial to lenders like Ms B. I appreciate Zopas approach 
did mean there was no option to continue earning interest on loans that hadnt reached 
maturity. But Im also conscious that future interest payments werent guaranteed either, and 
the risk of future default remained for all loans - even those with a good payment history. 
Having carefully considered the circumstances, I dont think it is reasonable to ask Zopa to 
pay returns where there was no guarantee they would be achieved. So, I agree that Zopas 
approach of assessing the sale price at the time is a fair and reasonable way of deciding 
what should be returned to Ms B. While I understand why Ms B would have preferred to 
continue investing, I dont agree that she has suffered a financial loss as a result of the 
action Zopa took. 
Ms B has raised a point about being induced into taking out a separate savings product with 
Zopa because of information she had been given about the banking operation and P2P 
lending side of the business sitting alongside each other. She argues Zopa went back on this 
statement when it closed the P2P platform. She has suggested that she decided to take out 
a fixed rate savings product based on Zopas prior business model to entice P2P account 
holders to invest in other products provided by the Zopa group. She now feels deceived as 
she believes Zopa intended to close the P2P business, and this was known when she 
opened her savings account. 
I understand the comments Ms B makes and her reasons for drawing a link between the two 
products when she made her decision to open the savings account. But I dont consider the 
two matters to be sufficiently related to impact the outcome of this complaint. The savings 
product she took out bears no direct link to her P2P account, other than it was held with an 
entity that formed part of the Zopa group. It was taken out through a separate contract. I 
havent found reasons to say the closure of the platform should be linked to this - or that Ms 
B has suffered a loss on her savings product due to the closure of the P2P platform. For 
these reasons, Im not satisfied that Zopa needs to do anything here, or that it would be 
appropriate (or even possible) for me to direct Zopa Limited to take action on the savings 
account. If Ms B has concerns about the sale of her savings account, she would need to 
raise these with Zopa in the first instance. 
In conclusion, I think overall Zopa has treated Ms B fairly. The Investor Principles do explain 
the possibility of Zopa deciding to end the agreement and sell outstanding loans. Essentially 
Zopa has made a commercial consideration about the viability of the platform and decided to 
close it. I understand this will come as a disappointment to Ms B, but I havent found that 
Zopa need to pay her any further compensation from the loan sale. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman