DRN-1717133
 
The complaint
Mr A says that Lloyds Bank plc closed his account whilst he was abroad and then provided a 
poor service when he tried to obtain his funds from a branch.
What happened
Lloyds Bank wrote to Mr A on 18 September 2018 to give him notice that it was closing his 
account in 65 days time. It explained that after the 65 days the bank would pay or transfer 
money into an account held by Mr A at another bank, or any other named person he 
specified. Otherwise, funds would be paid by cheque to the address it held on file. 
The bank sent the letter to the address it had on file for Mr A, but Mr A says he was no 
longer living there. Mr A was on holiday abroad between 18 September and 28 October 
2018.
The account was closed by Lloyds Banks on 22 November 2018. Mr A called the bank twice 
on this day and it told him that he would need to go into a branch to access his funds. 
During a telephone call on 23 November 2018, the bank told Mr A it had sent a cheque for 
the closing balance to him by post to the address it held. After initially waiting to see if the 
cheque had been re-directed to his new address, Mr A told the bank on 29 November 2018 it 
had not arrived. The bank told Mr A he should go to a branch to obtain his funds. It 
continued to tell him this over the coming days when he called.
Mr A did go to a branch on 10 December 2018, as previously instructed. A manager told him 
he did not have the correct identification documents to allow the release of the funds. The 
branch said it would call him when it had further information, but it didnt. 
Mr A complained to the bank on 19 December 2018. He said that he had made several 
telephone calls to its customer services department, but he had not been able to obtain the 
funds from his account for three weeks. And that the branch had not called him as promised 
after his visit on 10 December 2018.
Lloyds Bank provided a final response to the complaint on 18 January 2019. It did not uphold 
Mr As complaint about closing the account. But it agreed that Mr A did suffer some 
inconvenience in getting his funds because of the poor customer service at his branch and 
its customer services department. It paid the sum of £100 into another bank account he held 
to reflect the impact on him, and it apologised.
After we investigated the complaints, we said that Lloyds Bank did everything it should 
reasonably have done when taking steps to close the account. The bank had recognised it 
caused a delay in him getting his funds. It apologised and paid him £100. The investigator 
thought the bank did not need to take any further action.
Mr A does not agree with the investigator and feels that the compensation should be several 
thousand pounds, not least because he had to stay in a hotel during the period the funds 
were delayed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Im not going to require Lloyds Bank to take any further action. 
Ill explain why.
Under Mr As agreement with Lloyds Bank either party could decide to close the account. If 
Lloyds Bank wanted to do so, with some exceptions that dont apply here, it needed to give 
Mr A at least 60 days notice. 
Lloyds Bank sent the notice of closure to the address it held for Mr A. I see no reason to say 
it was inappropriate for the bank to do so. Although Mr A says hed moved out of that 
address and was abroad at the time the letter was sent, I havent seen anything to suggest 
hed told Lloyds Bank. This is most likely why Mr A did not receive the closure letter from 
Lloyds Bank, but Mr A did tell Lloyds Bank on 23 November 2018 that a mail redirection had 
been set up for this address. 
I am satisfied that Lloyds Bank provided the required 65 days notice that it intended to close 
the account. In normal circumstances this would have given Mr A reasonable time to obtain 
the funds from the account or arrange for the balance to be transferred to another of his 
bank accounts. Its unfortunate that Mr As circumstances meant he didnt get Lloyds Banks 
letter, but that wasnt the banks fault. I therefore do not uphold this part of the complaint as I 
cannot see that Lloyds Bank did anything wrong here.
The notice period expired on 22 November 2018. On that day, Mr A called the customer 
service department of the bank. It told him that he would need to go to a branch if he wanted 
to access his funds. The bank told Mr A this again on 28 and 29 November 2018 when he 
called back.
It seems reasonable for me to conclude Mr A was aware that the account was closed on 22 
November 2018, and that to obtain funds, he would need to go into a branch.
Mr A went to a branch on 10 December 2018, and when he did, he was told he did not have 
the necessary identification documents to allow the branch to release funds to him. The 
branch said it would obtain further information about the closure and call him back. It did not 
do so.
Lloyds Bank says it spoke to Mr A at least 10 times between 22 November and 10 
December 2018 about his account and how he could access his funds. However, I cannot 
see that it told him he would need to provide identification when he went to a branch. This 
meant that when Mr A went to the branch on 10 December 2018, he did not have the 
necessary identification with him. This caused a delay, after 10 December 2018, in Mr A 
obtaining his funds. This delay couldve been avoided if the bank had explained what 
identification documents were required in the previous telephone calls it had with Mr A.
I therefore uphold this part of the complaint.
Putting things right
I can see that Lloyds Bank apologised for the service Mr A received from its customer 
services department and the branch. As this led to a delay in Mr A obtaining his funds, it paid 
Mr A £100 in recognition of this delay. And it made this payment into another of his bank 
accounts at another bank.Mr A says he rejected this offer from Lloyds Bank, but I have seen evidence that it was paid. 
Mr A believes that Lloyds Bank should pay for his hotel accommodation whilst he was 
awaiting the funds. I do not agree with Mr A and Ill explain why.
The expense of living in a hotel after the account was closed was not the result of the 
actions of Lloyds Bank. Mr A wouldve incurred these expenses anyway. However, the delay 
in receiving the funds from Lloyds Bank will have caused Mr A some short term 
inconvenience whilst he was staying at the hotel. I have therefore decided that an apology 
and a payment of £100 is a reasonable remedy, and I will not be telling Lloyds Bank to do 
anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that the actions taken by Lloyds Bank plc 
led to a delay in Mr A receiving his funds, but that the bank doesnt need to take any further 
action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020. 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman