DRN-1607363
Complaint
This complaint is about a regular payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
January 2000 alongside a credit card. Mrs C, who is represented by a third party, says 
Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold her the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this. Ive seen a 
copy of her card application form. From that, I can see that Mrs C made her decision 
to take out the policy when she applied for the credit card by filling out and signing an 
application form. She signed on the form in a separate section to show she wanted to 
buy PPI  if she didnt want it she could have left it blank. So I think, given that she 
filled out the application in her own time, Mrs C had the opportunity to think about 
whether she wanted PPI to go with her new card and decided she did. 
Mrs C says BoS recommended that she buy the PPI. But from what Ive seen about 
the sale  which looks as if it was sold by post  it seems more likely to me that BoS 
didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C, so didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it still had to make sure that Mrs C got the information she needed to decide if she 
wanted to buy the PPI. Ive seen that the application form had some key information 
about the policy and how it works. And its likely that she would have received further 
policy details soon after shed decided to buy the cover. 
Its possible the information BoS gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  so it 
would have been useful to her if something went wrong. 
 
I say this having taken into account that Mrs C told us she enjoyed good benefits from her 
employer if she couldnt work due to accident or sickness  of up to six months full pay 
followed by six months at half pay. But the PPI would pay out in addition those benefits, for 
up to 12 months if she couldnt work due to accident or sickness or if she lost her job. It also 
meant she wouldnt have to rely on other sources of funding, such as savings, to help out. 
The PPI also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put Mrs C off taking out the cover. This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So BoS doesnt need to refund everything 
Mrs C paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mrs C back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman