DRN-3307144
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the decision by Unum Ltd to turn down her income protection claim. 
What happened
Mrs P is covered under her employers group income protection scheme, the aim of which is 
to provide her with an income in the event she cant work in an occupation to which shes 
suited by way of training, education or experience. 
In July 2019, Mrs P stopped work in her manual role after experiencing a condition affecting 
her left foot. She submitted a claim to Unum. After consideration, Unum turned down the 
claim. Whilst it accepted that Mrs P couldnt work in her usual occupation, it thought she was 
able to work in other roles to which she was suited. Unhappy with this, Mrs P brought a 
complaint to this service. 
Mrs P returned to her usual occupation in June 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Unums claims 
decision had been reasonable. 
Mrs P didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ps cover has a gainful occupation definition of incapacity. The policy explains that 
means a member is incapacitated if they:
are unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial 
duties of:
The insured occupation, and of
Any gainful occupation with any employer for which they are reasonably fitted by 
reason of training, education or experience, and
They are not performing any occupation...
Its not in dispute that Mrs P couldnt work in her usual occupation due to her condition. Ive 
therefore considered whether it was reasonable for Unum to conclude that she was able to 
work in another occupation to which she was suited. 
Ive noted Mrs Ps comments that she thinks she was unable to do any work. However, I see 
an occupational health report from February 2020 confirmed that Mrs P could do a sedentary 
role. 
Unum arranged for its vocational rehabilitation consultant (Mr T) to look at any alternative 
roles Mrs P could do, based on her education, skills and experience. 
Mr T concluded that there were two sedentary occupations that Mrs P could do - a 
receptionist or a data entry clerk. In reaching his conclusions, Mr T relied upon external 
information relating to these roles, including the National Careers Service. This is a 
government website which sets out information for jobs roles, including any skills needed, as 
well as the usual entry requirements. 
Ive looked at this website, and I would agree with Mr T that it seems Mrs P had the 
experience and skills (including computer and administrative skills) to be able to carry out 
these roles. 
Mrs P says she wouldnt have been able to get the bus or walk to another job, and points out 
that there was a national lockdown in place at the time. However, Unum only needs to show 
that Mrs P could do the main duties of the alternative roles (regardless of the actual 
availability of these jobs), and therefore commuting wouldnt be taken into account. 
I recognise my decision will disappoint Mrs P. However, Im satisfied that Unums decision to 
turn down the claim was fair, as it has reasonably shown that Mrs P could have carried out 
other roles to which she was suited. That meant she didnt meet the policy definition of 
incapacity.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman