DRN-3986743
The complaint
Mr B complains that HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) unfairly declined a claim he made 
against his Lifetime Pet Insurance policy.
What happened
In early May 2022 Mr B took out a Lifetime Pet Insurance policy with HDI after he purchased 
a medium cross bred dog that was around four years old. 
Later the same month being a new dog owner, Mr B took his dog to see a training expert as 
the dog was showing some behavioural issues. The expert recognised the dog from visits 
made by the dogs previous owner and expressed concerns about the dogs gait. Mr B took 
his dog to see his vet, who had also been the vet used by the previous owner. The vet found 
the dogs hips were very tense on examination and prescribed anti-inflammatory medication. 
Mr B claimed for this on his pet insurance policy. But this was declined by HDI as they said it 
was a pre-existing condition. Mr B complained to HDI.
HDI said that the condition had been noted by a vet in June 2020 and had started showing 
signs of hip dysplasia in March 2021. As the symptoms had been noted by a vet before the 
inception of Mr Bs policy the condition was pre-existing and so not covered by Mr Bs policy.
Mr B wasnt happy with HDIs response and referred his complaint to us.  
Our investigator said HDI had applied the terms and conditions of the policy fairly.
Mr B didnt agree. He said there hadnt been a diagnosis as his dog hadnt been fully 
examined on either occasion. He said it was the previous owner whod shown concern for an 
injury to his other leg after hed been running around. And there hadnt been any further 
signs or symptoms considered at subsequent vet visits. Mr B said that HDI hadnt shown 
there was a pre-existing condition and so shouldnt have declined his claim. He asked for an 
ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common for insurers not to cover pre-existing conditions in a pet insurance policy. This 
isnt unreasonable; insurers are entitled to decide what risks they want to cover. But HDI still 
needed to act fairly and reasonably when applying those terms when dealing with Mr Bs 
claim. I know Mr B will be disappointed by my decision, but I think HDI has done this, so I 
dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
What Mr Bs policy covers is set out in the policy documents. These represent the
agreement and so terms and conditions such as any exclusions should be set out clearly 
here. HDI has declined Mr Bs claim as they say his dog has a pre-existing condition. Ive 
considered the policy document which says a pre-existing condition is:
Any illness or injury or complication directly resulting from an injury or illness, whether 
diagnosed or undiagnosed that has been identified or investigated by a vet or is otherwise 
known to you prior to the start of the insurance or within the first 14 days of the policy for 
illness or 48 hours in the case of an injury
The Product Information Document sent to Mr B also covers What is not insured and says:
Pre-existing conditions that have received treatment or have shown signs or symptoms 
before your policy started.
I can understand why Mr B might think that for something to be a pre-existing condition, he 
would need to have known about it or at least its symptoms before the policy started. But the 
policy wording is clear that for an illness or injury to be considered as pre-existing the 
condition has been identified or investigated by a vet prior to the commencement or within 
14 days of the policys commencement. 
Mr B said there hadnt been a definitive diagnosis but again the terms applied are clear in 
that the injury or illness whether diagnosed or undiagnosed has been identified or 
investigated by a vet.
I can see from the vets clinical notes that in June 2020 the previous owner had concerns 
about the dogs back legs as their gait looked odd. And in March 2021 the clinical notes 
say the dog was showing signs of hip dysplasia and mentions bunny hops when describing 
his walking. It was recommended at the time that further investigation should be done, such 
as x-rays, but this wasnt taken up by the previous owner. But I think the clinical notes show 
that Mr Bs dog was showing signs and symptoms of problems with his back legs/hips, and 
this was visible in his manner of walking.
it was also suggested to Mr B, by the same training expert used by the previous owner, after 
he took his dog for a training session that he should visit his vet to check for 
skeletal/muscular issues. This was because his dog had an unusual gait which theyd seen 
on previous visits. On examination by the vet the dogs hips were said to be very tense with 
limited range of movement. And anti-inflammatory medication was initially prescribed.
I think the vets clinical notes show that there were signs and symptoms of hip problems 
presenting from 2020. And a connection to the condition being claimed for against the 
insurance policy couldnt be ruled out. So, together with the claim form, I think HDI fairly 
concluded the condition was a long-term condition. And so, the condition is related to, or 
resulted from a pre-existing condition.
For the reasons explained I think HDI has applied the policy terms fairly, and so agree it
was reasonable for them to turn down Mr Bs claim.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman