DRN-3076447
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy with the service provided by AWP P&C SA (AWP) when dealing with a 
claim under her home emergency insurance policy. 
  
What happened
Mrs R took out a home emergency insurance policy underwritten by AWP in September 
2019. She also held a home insurance policy with provider H. 
The home emergency insurance policy (versions dated March 2019 and March 2021) 
include the following terms and conditions:
AWP would provide the following service in the event of a claim:
Provide initial advice to you;
Arrange for a tradesperson to attend your home;
Pay up to £1,000 in total (incl. VAT) for each emergency claim incident, towards 
labour costs (including call out charges, materials and parts required to effect 
emergency repairs in your home and overnight accommodation);
AWP would cover the following plumbing and drainage issues:
Failure of, or damage to, the plumbing or drainage system which will result in water 
damage inside your home.
This includes:
burst pipes;
overflowing water tanks;
blocked waste outlets (including toilets); and
blocked drains.
An emergency is defined as:
A sudden and unforeseen domestic situation which, if not dealt with quickly, will:
 make your home unsafe or insecure;
 damage, or cause further damage to your home or its contents;
 result in your home losing its main source of heating, lighting or water.
The general conditions of the policy also explain:
If you need more than the cover provided by this Home Emergency cover, we will
still offer you help up to the policy limits, but you will have to pay the extra costs 
direct to the tradesperson when they provide the service.
In August 2020 Mrs R contacted AWP as shed noticed a leak of sewage coming into her 
kitchen through her sink. Almost two weeks after contacting AWP, a tradesperson attended 
to Mrs Rs property to inspect the problem. 
During the tradespersons visit, a camera was placed through the manhole in Mrs Rs 
garden, and images were taken of a hole found in the waste pipe. The tradesperson advised 
that AWP would be in touch within two weeks with an update. Mrs R didnt hear anything and 
so chased AWP. AWP initially said they couldnt find any record of a tradesperson being 
sent out. 
Following further calls from Mrs R, several weeks later, AWP said theyd located details of 
the tradespersons visit. AWP said that as the cost of repairing the pipe exceeded the policy 
limit of £1,000, Mrs Rs claim had been closed. 
Mrs R said she was unhappy with this decision. AWP said theyd further investigate her 
concerns. As Mrs R didnt hear anything, and the smell of the sewage was causing her upset 
and frustration, she contacted provider H to make a claim under her home insurance policy 
instead. Provider H attempted to contact AWP to confirm AWPs decision on the claim but 
didnt hear back. This delayed the start of the claims process with provider H by 
approximately five weeks.
The claim was subsequently accepted by provider H, and Mrs R was asked to pay her policy 
excess of £350. Provider H confirmed the total paid to complete repairs to the sewage issue 
was £724.14 including VAT.
Mrs R complained to AWP saying that as the cost of repair was less than £1,000, it 
shouldve been covered by her home emergency insurance policy, saving her the cost of 
paying an excess. AWP didnt respond to Mrs Rs complaint. 
Mrs R referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman service for investigation in April 
2021. On 7 July this service requested AWPs business file. An acknowledgement email was 
received, but no file was provided. Further file chasers were sent on 27 July, and 18 August. 
The file chaser of 18 August advised Can you please send me your file by 1 September 
2021 or let me know when you will be able to provide a file. If I've not heard from you by this 
date I may need to base my view only on the testimony and evidence provided by [Mrs R].
On 3 September the investigator shared their findings with Mrs R and AWP. The investigator 
found that the service provided by AWP had been poor. Based on the information provided 
by Mrs R about the circumstances of her claim, and the wording of the policy booklets found 
online, the claim should reasonably have been accepted by AWP. 
The investigator found that AWP had also caused unnecessary delays in dealing with the 
claim. To put things right, the investigator said AWP should reimburse Mrs R the £350 
excess shed paid to provider H, add 8% simple interest to this payment, and pay a further 
£650 in compensation in recognition of the impact on Mrs R because of the sewage issue 
not being dealt with in good time, and upset caused to Mrs R because of this. 
Mrs R accepted the investigators findings. AWP didnt respond to the investigators findings. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved its been passed to me for decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I broadly agree with the investigators outcome on this 
complaint for similar reasons. The amount of compensation Im directing is less than the 
investigators recommendation. I have already discussed this with Mrs R who has accepted these findings. As AWP have been unresponsive throughout our process (and its unlikely 
theyd dispute my direction to pay less compensation than that recommended by the 
investigator), Ive proceeded to issue a final decision.
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
AWP have not provided any evidence in support of their position on this complaint. Ive relied 
on the information provided by Mrs R, and policy information available online showing the 
terms and conditions for the type of policy Mrs R held. The versions Ive found include March 
2019 and March 2021. The investigator used the March 2021 version when reaching an 
opinion on the case. As the March 2019 pre-dates the sale of Mrs Rs policy, this is the 
version that would be most relevant when assessing this complaint. However the wording in 
both versions is the same so Im confident the investigators reliance on the March 2021 
version hasnt impacted the outcome of the case.  
Having reviewed the policy terms and conditions for Mrs Rs home emergency insurance 
policy, I think its more likely than not that Mrs Rs claim would have been accepted by AWP 
if theyd acted promptly and fairly when dealing with it. The terms and conditions say that the 
policy would cover Failure of, or damage to, the plumbing or drainage system which will 
result in water damage inside your home. Based on what Mrs R has explained about the 
sewage water entering her property through the kitchen sink, and the tradesperson 
confirming a hole found in the waste pipe, I think its fair to say that this damage wouldve 
more likely than not been covered by Mrs Rs policy. 
Mrs R says that she was told on the phone that as the cost of the claim was likely to exceed 
£1,000, it wouldnt be covered. However the policy terms dont support this. So I dont think 
AWP have acted fairly in rejecting the claim in its entirety on this basis. The general 
conditions of the policy say If you need more than the cover provided by this Home 
Emergency cover, we will still offer you help up to the policy limits, but you will have to pay 
the extra costs direct to the tradesperson when they provide the service. 
I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that the cost of the repairs wouldve been more 
than £1,000. But even if AWP thought this was the case, in line with the policy terms, I 
wouldve expected the claim to have been covered up to the policy limit, and Mrs R provided 
with information about any additional amount that would need to be paid. Instead ASP did 
nothing, and ignored Mrs Rs continual attempts to seek clarification on why her claim hadnt 
been accepted. 
I think its fair for AWP to compensate Mrs R for the additional cost she had to pay for 
making a claim through her home insurance policy instead. Mrs R has provided evidence of 
the £350 excess charged by provider H as a result of making a claim through her home 
insurance policy. I think its fair that AWP refund this cost, plus pay interest at rate of 8% 
simple from the date Mrs H paid this cost, until the date of settlement. 
Mrs R has explained that after notifying AWP about the sewage leak in early August 2020, it 
was several weeks, and numerous phone calls, later that she was told that AWP wouldnt be 
able to pay for the repairs under her home emergency insurance policy. Mrs R has also 
explained that she was told shed receive a call back to discuss her concerns further. But 
this never happened. 
I think the service provided here was poor. I wouldve expected AWP to have arranged for a 
tradesperson to attend to Mrs R property, and to have provided a decision in writing about 
the outcome of her claim in good time. Because this didnt happen, Mrs R was forced to make calls to AWP chasing a response, and in the meantime had to ensure the foul smell 
and discomfort of the sewage leak in her home. 
I am persuaded by what Mrs R has explained about this experience causing her 
unnecessary distress and upset. I think its fair that AWP pay Mrs R compensation in 
recognition of the impact on her caused by their delay, and lack of action.
I am in agreement with the investigator that the period of delay is reasonably the time during 
which Mrs R first reported the issue with the sewage, until the time she was told that AWP 
wouldnt be honouring her claim. Mrs R has estimated this to be around nine weeks. 
Although Mrs R suffered for a period close to eight months, I think it would only be 
reasonable to hold AWP responsible for the nine weeks during which AWP delayed in 
notifying Mrs R about the outcome of their tradespersons visit, and the five weeks after this 
when provider H was chasing a response from AWP about their decision on the claim. Mrs R 
has explained how AWP failed to respond to provider H, and in doing so, caused further 
delay which prevented Mrs H from starting the claims process under her home insurance 
policy. I think its reasonable to hold AWP responsible for this delay.
Outside of this timescale, I accept that Mrs R continued to suffer from the problems caused 
by the sewage issue, including the foul smell and risk to her health and safety. But this delay 
isnt something I can hold AWP responsible for. Once notified of AWPs decision not to pay 
the claim, Mrs R was placed in a position to make an informed decision about what action to 
take next. She chose to utilise her home insurance policy instead. 
The investigator recommended £650 in recognition of the trouble suffered by Mrs R because 
of the issue with the sewage not being dealt with by AWP, and the delay in informing both 
her and provider H of the outcome of her claim. 
Given the period of delay, and what Mrs R has explained about the impact on her, I think 
£400 is more in line with what this service would direct given the circumstances. This 
amount recognises the severity of the impact on Mrs R, but also the period she was 
impacted which I can reasonably hold AWP responsible for. I think this amount is a 
reasonable reflection of the compensation amount that should be paid in recognition of 
AWPs poor handling of Mrs Rs claim, and the impact on her over this time. 
Putting things right
AWP is directed to take the following action:
1. Reimburse Mrs R £350 (representing the cost of the excess paid to provider H);
2. Add 8% simple interest to this payment to be paid from the date Mrs R paid provider 
H until the date of settlement; and 
3. Compensate Mrs R £400 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused to 
her as a result of AWPs poor handling of the claim, and the impact on Mrs R.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mrs Rs complaint. AWP P&C SA must follow my 
directions above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman