DRN-2483086
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc gave him incorrect information about how a payment 
could be processed from his account. 
What happened
Mr C has a current account with Santander. He wanted to make a payment to redeem his 
mortgage, held with another business.
Mr C says he called Santander a week before needing to make the payment. He says he 
was told he could make the payment over the phone and that there would be no charge.
Mr C called Santander on the day he wanted to make the payment to his mortgage. The first 
member of staff he spoke to attempted to complete the payment as a faster payment. 
However due to the size of the payment this was unsuccessful.
The payment instead had to be arranged through the Clearing House Automated Payment 
System (CHAPS), meaning Mr C incurred a £25 fee. The payment was successfully 
completed on the day Mr C requested it.
Mr C complained to Santander about what had happened. Santander acknowledged that the 
person Mr C initially spoke to had made an error by attempting to make a faster payment, as 
the amount was above the limit for doing so. To address the error, it refunded the £25 fee for 
the CHAPS payment to Mr Cs current account.
Unhappy with this Mr C asked our service to consider the complaint. He said the whole 
matter had caused him significant upset as hed been left worrying that the transaction would 
not go through and that hed incur a penalty on his mortgage. He also said hed been 
inconvenienced by having to make several calls to resolve this.
One of our investigators looked into things but overall felt what Santander had already done 
to resolve matters was fair. She said Santander had no record of the call Mr C mentioned 
the week prior to the transfer. But when the issue with the payment occurred, she felt 
Santander had resolved matters quickly. And while Mr C felt strongly about the poor service 
provided, she felt, from the calls shed listened to, while an error was made, Santander had 
apologised and acted professionally. So, she thought its refund of the fee charged was fair.
Mr C did not agree. He maintained that he had called a week before carrying out the 
transaction and was also told thered be no charge at that point. And he felt the response 
wasnt fair as it didnt account for the stress hed been caused. As Mr C didnt agree with the 
investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has said it has been unable to find any record of the contact Mr C has said he 
made with it the week prior to the transaction being attempted. But regardless it has 
acknowledged that the first person he spoke to on the day of making the transaction gave 
him incorrect information  that the payment could be sent as a faster payment, free of 
charge. So, it accepts an error was made.
Santander has said that a payment of the size Mr C was attempting to make would always 
have needed to be arranged as a CHAPS payment, due to its size exceeding the limit 
Santander set for faster payments. The terms and conditions of Mr Cs account confirm that 
faster payments will be subject to the scheme limits but also that, in some circumstances, 
Santander will apply a lower transactional limit. Santander has been consistent in explaining 
that this transaction exceeded the limit it applied, and I dont think it has made an error by 
declining to carry the payment out as a faster payment. Its staff should however have been 
aware of this limit when talking to Mr C. 
I can see that, after the issue was identified, a CHAPS payment was arranged. And this was 
completed on the same day, as Mr C intended. So, he hasnt suffered a financial loss as a 
result of the need to arrange the payment differently  other than the cost of the CHAPS 
payment. But Santander has already refunded the £25 fee for this  which I think is fair given 
its initial error. 
Mr C has said that he was caused significant trouble and upset by this and is upset with the 
customer service provided. But Santander has provided evidence that the CHAPS payment 
was arranged approximately 30 minutes after the initial faster payment was unsuccessful. 
And having listened to the call in which the CHAPS payment was arranged, it was confirmed 
that it would go through the same day. I realise Mr C was making a payment towards his 
mortgage and why the initial problem mightve been concerning and why it was upsetting to 
learn that a fee would be payable. But I think the information available indicates the matter 
has been addressed promptly by Santander and the disruption minimised. And I also think 
Mr Cs concerns were dealt with correctly and professionally by Santander.  So, while I 
understand Mr C will be disappointed, I dont think Santander needs to do anything further 
here or provide any additional compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman