DRN-1382618
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them payment protection 
insurance (PPI). 
What happened
This complaint is about PPI policies taken out by Mr and Mrs L alongside personal loans 
which they took out in 1993 and 1995. The policies provided cover in the event of accident, 
sickness and unemployment, as well as life cover.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators 
view. Mr and Mrs L mainly say that they never needed PPI and wouldnt have taken it had it 
been offered. And theyre unhappy that our adjudicator didnt uphold their complaint even 
though Nationwide hasnt been able to produce any signed paperwork from the sales. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide couldnt provide any signed paperwork from either of these sales. And I do 
appreciate its frustrating for Mr and Mrs L that theres only limited information about how PPI 
was sold to them. 
But this isnt a reason for me to uphold the complaint. Its not surprising, given how long ago 
the sales happened, that paperwork isnt still available. I wouldnt reasonably expect 
Nationwide or Mr and Mrs L to keep this for so long. 
A financial business isnt required to keep paperwork indefinitely. When personal private 
information is no longer likely to be needed, it can be destroyed. Data protection laws set out 
rules about this. Destroying old paperwork helps to keep customers private details secure. 
I can appreciate that Mr and Mrs L say other businesses theyve dealt with were able to 
produce papers from years ago. 
But the fact that Nationwide cant now produce the sale documents isnt a reason for me to 
uphold this complaint. 
And I cant know exactly what was discussed when Mr and Mrs L arranged their loans and 
the PPI. Ive taken carefully into account what they remember. But neither Nationwide nor 
Mr and Mrs L could say how they had taken out the loans and the PPI. And it wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs L to recall exactly anything that mightve been said. So this 
means that what Mr and Mrs L say now isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold 
their complaint. 
I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely. That 
means making reasonable assumptions where necessary. And I must be impartial. 
However they took out PPI, Nationwides sales process wouldve required Mr and Mrs L to 
say if they wanted PPI. 
Based on what they said about whether or not they wanted PPI, a loan agreement wouldve 
been printed for them to sign  with PPI included as part of the loan agreement if thats what 
they said they wanted.
Ive seen examples of loan agreements that I think are probably similar to the ones 
Mr and Mrs L wouldve had to sign to get their loans. 
These show that they had to pay a separate additional premium to have PPI  which is 
clearly described on all the example forms as Optional Credit Insurance. 
So Mr and Mrs L wouldve been able to see that they did have a choice about having PPI  
and their loans couldve been set up without PPI instead if that had been what they wouldve 
preferred.
So, even though I dont know what was said about the PPI, looking at this paperwork, I think 
Nationwide made Mr and Mrs L aware that the PPI was optional when it was added to their 
loan accounts in 1993 and in 1995 (when it looks like they paid their first loan and took out a 
new loan). 
The best information weve got suggests the PPI was put in place for Mr L  Ive seen 
nothing to make me think that it shouldve been Mrs L who was covered for accident, 
sickness and unemployment  she likely had life cover only.  
Nationwide says it didnt make personal recommendations when it sold this PPI  but Ive 
looked carefully at whether Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs L enough clear information so they 
could decide for themselves if they wanted to have PPI to protect Mr Ls income. And if this 
didnt happen, Ive thought about whether this makes any difference to the outcome of their 
complaint.
Nationwide told us that it doesnt any longer have policy documents from the dates Mr L took 
out PPI. But it has provided policy documents which were in use shortly afterwards  so 
I think its likely that in all main respects the policy that Mr L took out wouldve had similar 
terms and conditions. 
The PPI wouldve covered the loan repayments for up to 12 months if Mr L lost his job 
unexpectedly and found himself out of work.   
How long the policy paid out in the event of sickness or disability depended on what sort of 
loan they took out (whether it was secured on their property or unsecured).
It looks like the policy wouldve paid out for up to 24 months if Mr L was off work sick and it 
was a secured loan. If the loan was unsecured, the policy wouldve paid out until the loan 
was repaid if Mr L wasnt ever well enough to go back to work. The policy wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr L mightve got if he was off work 
as a result of illness or a disability. 
Mr L had very good sick pay through work. But even so, the PPI couldve paid out (and in 
full) for longer than he was entitled to sick pay from his employer.
So I think its likely that the policy offered a useful benefit at what wouldve been a difficult 
time if he wasnt able to work  especially as Mr and Mrs L mightve faced some extra costs 
if Mr L was sick or disabled. 
I dont know if Mr and Mrs L wouldve always been able to rely on any savings they had 
when they started this loan. But it seems they chose to borrow in 1993 and then re-finance 
that loan in 1995. So it looks like they had other plans for their savings and preferred not to 
use money they had saved up to reduce the cost of borrowing. 
Having PPI wouldve meant they could keep any savings intact providing them with financial 
security for the future and giving them the option to spend the money on other things they 
mightve been saving for. So I can see why they mightve still wanted to take out PPI even if 
they had savings. 
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
So I cant reasonably say that Mr and Mrs L couldnt have benefitted from having PPI, based 
on what Ive seen of their circumstances in 1993.
And it looks like Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances were broadly unchanged when they took out 
their second loan with PPI in 1995. So looking at the likely policy terms I can see that the 
cover wouldve offered them the same benefits when they re-financed their loan in 1995. 
Ive seen nothing that makes me think Mr L wasnt eligible for the policies. Although there 
were some things the policies didnt cover, it doesnt look as if this wouldve affected Mr L. 
He told us he was in long term full time employment and hed always had good health. 
The loan agreements Mr and Mrs L wouldve had to sign to obtain the loans they took out 
wouldve shown the monthly cost of the PPI set out separately from the cost of their 
borrowing. So they wouldve known what theyd have to pay for the insurance. And how 
much their total monthly repayments would be. 
It doesnt look as if the monthly premiums were unaffordable for Mr and Mrs L. And they 
couldve cancelled the PPI at any time if their circumstances changed or they no longer 
wanted to pay for PPI.
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way these policies were sold. 
But I think Mr and Mrs L still wouldve decided to buy the policies in 1993 and in 1995 even if 
theyd been given clearer information as they gave Mr and Mrs L useful protection in their 
particular situation.
This means I dont find that Mr and Mrs L have lost out as a result of anything that 
Nationwide did wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
In coming to my decision, Ive also taken into account what Mr and Mrs L said about the way 
different PPI cases have been dealt with. But each complaint is looked at on its own merits - Ive looked at the circumstances that apply in this particular case and what happened on 
other cases doesnt change my conclusion here.  
I understand that what Ive said will disappoint Mr and Mrs L. But I hope that setting things 
out as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 January 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman