DRN-2942566
The complaint
Mr B complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) is holding him liable for a 
transaction which he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide a brief summary of events below.
On 18 October 2020, Mr B says he applied for a Capital One credit card.  He says he 
received an email on the same day stating that his application had been declined.  As he 
already holds a Capital One credit card, he didnt think being declined was unusual.
Mr B says he later received text messages about overdue payments, which he contacted 
Capital One about in January 2021.  Capital One informed Mr B that his card application had 
in fact been successful, and that the card was used to make an online transaction of £106 on 
30 October 2020.  Mr B informed Capital One that his application was declined and that he 
had never received a card or Personal Identification Number (PIN), so consequently 
couldnt have made the £106 transaction.  Capital One initially refunded this amount to Mr B.  
But, following its investigation, it re-debited it.  Mr B then raised a complaint about this.
Capital One confirmed that on 18 October 2020, Mr B had in fact made two credit card 
applications on the same day  two minutes apart.  It explained that one application was 
accepted, and the other declined, which was the reason why Mr B was sent a declined 
application email.  Because of this error, Capital One said they requested for the duplicate 
hard search to be removed from Mr Bs credit file.
Capital One has said that during its investigation, it discovered that the £106 online 
transaction was for a hotel booking.  It said the hotel confirmed that the booking was made in 
Mr Bs name for three nights and his personal details were provided, such as his address.  
Capital One was not persuaded that the transaction was indicative of fraudulent activity  
particularly given the risk a third party wouldve taken by staying at the hotel booked with Mr 
Bs card.  For these reasons, Capital One held Mr B liable for the transaction.
Unhappy with this response, Mr B referred his complaint to this service.  He maintained that 
the application he made on 18 October 2020 was declined and that he never received a card 
or PIN.  Mr B added that the letterbox where he lives is shared with two other flats.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt uphold it.  He said if a third 
party had intercepted Mr Bs mail, he wouldve expected the fraudster to utilise the full 
balance of his card immediately.  Our investigator considered it unlikely that a third party 
would make a hotel booking using the name of the cardholder from whom the card was 
stolen from.  He also found it unusual that a third party would stay at the hotel considering 
the risks involved.  For these reasons, our investigator wasnt satisfied that a third party 
made the transaction.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans review.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I have 
set out below.
As the error regarding Mr Bs credit card applications no longer appears to be in dispute, I 
will only focus on the authorisation of the £106 transaction.
The relevant regulations in this case are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the 2017 
Regulations).  In short, they state that a payment service provider (in this case, Capital One) 
is generally required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction.  However, Capital 
One can hold Mr B liable for any disputed transactions if the evidence suggests that its more 
likely than not that he made or otherwise authorised them.
Im satisfied from the technical evidence Capital One has provided that the card in question 
was used to make the online transaction concerned.  Mr B says he never received this card.  
So, Ive considered the information Capital One has provided.  In doing so, Im satisfied that 
the card was at the very least sent to Mr Bs address.  
Mr B told our investigator his letter box is shared with two other flats at his address.  Having 
thought about this, I acknowledge its entirely plausible that a third party couldve intercepted 
Mr Bs new card when it was delivered to his address.  Capital One says the card wouldve 
been activated online.  I dont know what specific questions (if any) were asked during the 
activation process.  However, given Mr Bs living arrangements, I also acknowledge its 
plausible that a third party  perhaps one of the other residents at Mr Bs address  couldve 
completed the card activation process.
That said, the difficulty I have is that even if I could conclude that a third party intercepted 
and activated Mr Bs card  Im not persuaded that the £106 transaction made on it is 
consistent with the behaviour of an opportunistic fraudster.
I say this because usually Id expect a fraudster to utilise the full balance of a card  making 
several transactions over a short period.  This would allow them to maximise gains before 
the account holder could notice the transactions and block their card.  However, in this 
instance, Mr Bs card was used to make a single transaction for a hotel booking for three 
nights.  Further, Mr B says as well as not receiving the card, he also didnt receive a PIN, 
which Capital One says was sent out in a different envelope to the card.  However, I note 
there were no chip and PIN transactions made or attempted on the card. 
So, from when the hotel booking was made on 30 October 2020, to when Mr B contacted 
Capital One in January 2021, only a single online transaction of £106 was made  which is 
unlikely for an opportunistic fraudster.
I can see that the hotel booking was made in the name of Mr B; and his personal details 
such as his address were also provided.  Having considered this, I find it unlikely that a third 
party would risk intercepting Mr Bs mail, effectively steal his card, use it to make a hotel 
booking in Mr Bs name, and also provide Mr Bs personal details as part of that booking.  I 
also find it highly unusual that a third party would then attend the hotel and stay there for three nights, as to my mind, the risk of being caught wouldve been too great given the 
circumstances.  As our investigator highlighted, at any point during the hotel stay, Mr B 
couldve seen the transaction and reported it.  So, for these reasons, Im not persuaded this 
behaviour is consistent with that of an opportunistic fraudster.
I acknowledge Mr B denies ever receiving the card and making the hotel booking.  However, 
taking all the above factors together, I consider its more likely than not that Mr B authorised 
the transaction.  So, I wont be asking Capital One to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman