DRN-4008442
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that a car he ordered through L Y N C Limited trading as 
leaseyournextcar.com (LYNC) wasnt provided. And, after he cancelled the order, LYNC 
didnt refund the fee he paid.
What happened
Mr J was an existing customer of LYNC, a credit broker. And, on 3 March 2022 he asked 
LYNC to order him a new car and arrange finance for this. Mr J paid LYNC a £234 fee, and 
says he was told the car would be ready for collection in late June / early July 2022.
Mr J also said that LYNC told him he was able to keep his existing car until the new one was 
ready. However, on 23 June 2022, the company financing the existing car advised Mr J that 
hed need to return it. At this point LYNC were unable to supply a delivery date for the new 
car, nor were they able to source him an alternative. As such, on 5 July 2022, Mr J cancelled 
the order. And LYNC told him they were unable to refund the £234 fee.
Mr J wasnt happy with this, and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said neither party had been able to provide a copy of the order form, so she 
couldnt say if the broker fee was made clear on any paperwork Mr J signed. But she did say 
the terms were clear that the fee wasnt refundable. The investigator also said she hadnt 
seen any evidence to show that Mr J has executed the finance agreement for the new car.
The investigator referred to the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA), specifically sections 155 
and 173. She said that, while the terms Mr J had agreed to said the broker fee wasnt 
refundable, section 155 of the CCA said that (because Mr J hadnt entered into a regulated 
agreement within six months) LYNC were only entitled to keep £5 of the fee. And section 
173 said that, where LYNCs terms were inconsistent with the CCA, then the provisions of 
the CCA made LYNCs non-refund term void in these circumstances.
As such, the investigator said that LYNC should refund the broker fee to Mr J, less £5, and 
pay statutory interest on this refund.
LYNC didnt agree with the investigator. They said their fee wasnt part of the credit 
agreement, and no hire agreement was in place. As such, they didnt think the CCA applied 
in this instance. They also said that the industry body for renting and leasing also didnt 
agree with the investigators conclusions.
Because LYNC didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. LYNC ordered the car for Mr J as an ancillary action to their 
credit broking activity  the car was only ordered by LYNC as they were also arranging the 
finance for Mr J, so the two are intrinsically linked. So, as credit broking is a regulated 
activity, this is something were able to look at. And its for this reason Im also satisfied that 
the CCA applies in this instance.
When Mr J ordered the car through LYNC, he paid a fee of £195 plus VAT (£234). LYNC 
have explained that this was a brokerage fee  we pay fees to obtain the special offers 
from a various amount of companies.
Ive seen a copy of the dealership order form LYNC submitted and LYNCs terms and 
conditions, which say:
All agreements are subject to a Broker Agency Fee as detailed in the first page of 
your order form and the quotations you have received. The brokerage fee charged is 
non-refundable once the order has been placed by the customer and the order has 
been processed by our sales support team
The order form Ive been supplied with makes no reference to the broker fee, nor have I 
seen any evidence of the fee Mr J actually paid. However, its not disputed by either party 
that the fee was paid, nor the amount of the fee. Given this, Im satisfied its reasonable for 
me to issue my decision on the basis that Mr J paid a £234 non-refundable broker fee.
Ive also noted that the above term has now been removed from LYNCs website.
Section 155 of the CCA says that Subject to subsection (2A), the excess over £5 of a fee or 
commission for his services charged by a credit-broker to an individual to whom this 
subsection applies shall cease to be payable or, as the case may be, shall be recoverable by 
the individual if the introduction does not result in his entering into a relevant agreement 
within the six months following the introduction.
Given that, as the car hasnt been supplied and I havent seen that Mr J has entered into a 
relevant agreement within six months of the £234 fee being paid, Im satisfied that section 
155 of the CCA only allows LYNC to keep £5 of the fee i.e. £229 should be refunded to Mr J.
However, I also need to consider that the terms Mr J agreed to say the fee paid isnt 
refundable. 
Section 173 of the CCA says a term contained in a regulated agreement or linked 
transaction, or in any other agreement relating to an actual or prospective regulated 
agreement, or linked transaction, is void if, to the extent that, it is inconsistent with a 
provision for the protection of the debtor or hirer or his relative or any surety contained in this 
Act or in any regulation made under this Act.
The agreement Mr J signed with LYNC is a linked transaction to the regulated agreement 
they were arranging to finance the car. As such, Im satisfied that Section 173 of the CCA 
applies in this instance. This means that any of LYNCs terms are void if they are 
inconsistent with the CCA. And the no refund term is inconsistent with Section 155 of the 
CCA. Which means that, in this instance, LYNCs term is void and Mr J is entitled to £229 of 
the fee refunded.Putting things right
Based on the above, LYNC should refund Mr J £229 of the £234 fee he paid, and apply 8% 
simple yearly interest on this refund, calculated from the date Mr J cancelled the order to the 
date of the refund.
HM Revenue & Customs requires LYNC to take off tax from this interest. LYNC must give Mr 
J a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Js complaint. And L Y N C Limited trading as 
leaseyournextcar.com should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman