DRN-3132134
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2001, 
alongside a store card. Miss G says AXA France IARD mis-sold that PPI policy.
I cant consider this complaint against the policy seller directly because the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller was 
acting as its agent at the time - so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken on that responsibility. To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Miss Gs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Miss Gs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Gs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Miss Gs 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below. 
Miss G says she thought PPI was sold to her during a meeting between the parties. But AXA 
says it was sold on the telephone. Looking at the relevant dates, I think its most likely that 
Miss G applied for the store card during a face to face meeting. But it seems more likely to 
me that the PPI was sold on the telephone around a week after the account was opened. 
I havent been given a call recording, which isnt surprising given how long ago the cover 
was sold. As I said, Miss G thought cover was sold during a meeting, so it doesnt look as 
though she remembers a lot about the sale. Nevertheless, I have looked at what she told us 
about it. And Ive looked at the electronic information provided by AXA. 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Miss G would have known the PPI was optional 
and she didnt have to take it out if she didnt want it.  I think PPI would have been initially 
offered to Miss G when she applied for her store card, and she refused it then. So, by the 
time PPI was sold to Miss G, her store card account was most likely active. That means I 
think she would have known the cover wasnt a condition of her card, and that she didnt 
have to take it out. 
I havent treated this as an advised sale. Thats because the evidence Ive seen doesnt 
suggest AXA recommended this cover to Miss G after taking a detailed account of her 
circumstances. Even so, AXA still had to give Miss G enough clear and timely information 
about the cover so she could decide if it was a good fit for her needs. 
In the absence of a call recording, I accept its possible the information AXA gave Miss G 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But that doesnt mean I can automatically 
uphold the complaint. I must consider whether Miss G would have acted differently if AXA 
had told her everything it should have done. 
I can see that if shed had to make a claim on the policy, 15% of her card balance would 
have been repaid for every month she was off sick or if she lost her job. 
In the PPI questionnaire, it was stated on Miss Gs behalf that she would have been entitled 
to more than12 months full sick pay. I think this would have been an extraordinarily generous 
package, given how long Miss G was said to have worked for her employer at the relevant 
time. Both AXA and our adjudicator sought clarification from those representing Miss G 
about this matter, but no reply was forthcoming. On balance, I think its likely Miss G had 
some contractual sick pay through work. But in the absence of any evidence to support such 
a package, I cant reasonably say she would have been entitled to more than 12 months full 
pay. That being so, I think the PPI cover would have lasted for longer than her sick pay. I 
understand Miss G had no other means with which to meet her card repayments if she was 
out of work. So I can see how PPI could have been helpful if she was out of work. 
Ive next considered whether any of the exclusions could have affected Miss Gs decision to 
take PPI. I understand shed had surgery in 2000, and she believes this condition led to a 
complication arising in 2006. I can see no response was received to AXAs further request 
for information about the impact of this condition on Miss G at the point of sale.  I note that 
our adjudicator said he didnt think this medical condition would have affected Miss Gs 
decision to take the PPI out. Those representing Miss G did not take issue with our 
adjudicators view in this regard. On balance, I agree with our adjudicator that a year after 
surgery, I dont think Miss G would have expected to need to take some time off work 
because of her medical condition. So I dont think the exclusion around pre-existing medical 
conditions would have put her off taking the PPI out. I havent seen anything else that was unusual about Miss Gs employment circumstances 
that would have stopped her from being able to make a successful claim if she needed to. 
Ive found that she chose to take the policy out, so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. 
It also looks like it was affordable, so it seems like it would have been useful for Miss G if 
something went wrong with her job. Because of this I dont think Miss G would have declined 
the cover had AXA given her more or better information about it. 
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Miss Gs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think she would have still 
thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Miss G would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time. And in those circumstances, I think that she would have 
taken out the policy in any event.
Miss Gs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Miss Gs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Gs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Gs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman