DRN-3744010
The complaint
Miss W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly declined her request for a Bounce 
Back Loan.
What happened
Miss W approached Barclays with a view to obtaining a Bounce Back Loan in July 2020, at 
which time she only held a personal account. She opened a business account for her sole 
trader enterprise with the bank in September 2020, but was still unable to submit an 
application for a Bounce Back Loan. The bank said it needed more information to evidence 
her eligibility under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules and, in particular, that her business 
was trading prior to 1 March 2020.
Over the months that followed, there were a number of exchanges between Barclays and 
Miss W, with the bank requesting information and Miss W providing some  but not all  of 
the documents that she was asked for. The bank ultimately declined to proceed with the 
application on the basis that it wasnt satisfied Miss W met the Scheme eligibility criteria.
Miss W doesnt think that Barclays handled her application fairly. She says, in summary, 
that:
She was eligible for a Bounce Back Loan and provided all the documentation and 
information as required by the relevant guidelines.
Barclays mishandled her application, primarily because its staff didnt understand 
how the Scheme or businesses like hers operated. This meant that it was asking for 
information that she couldnt provide, and some that was irrelevant. The bank also 
misplaced some of her submissions, meaning they had to be re-sent.
Barclays indicated that the information shed provided had satisfied its checks and 
that it would consider her application, but she was still unable to complete an online 
application. 
The banks decision was based purely on the fact that she wasnt a British citizen, 
and shed been subjected to greater checks  and an inferior level of service  due to 
her nationality. Despite engaging with the bank about the matter from July 2020 to 
May 2021, she had been left without the government-backed support that shed 
needed.
Miss Ws complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators, who recommended that it be 
upheld in part. In summary, she said:
Applicants had to meet certain criteria to be eligible for a Bounce Back Loan and 
Barclays had to satisfy itself that these were met before approving an application. 
However, it was understandable that Miss W couldnt provide the bank with some of 
the information it had requested  for example, given her line of work she didnt have 
a separate trading address so couldnt provide utility bills or a lease that might have 
satisfied the banks requirements. And she had been able to provide some evidence 
of her trading and turnover, by providing her tax return from 2019/20.
While the Loan Scheme had now closed to new applications, an exceptions 
process existed by which applications could still be considered. So she asked 
Barclays to take another look at Miss Ws application through this mechanism.
There had been shortcomings in how Barclays had processed Miss Ws application. 
In particular, she thought that the bank had caused significant delays when asking 
Miss W for bank statements in a particular format  despite the accounts being held 
with Barclays  between September and February 2021. Thereafter, she thought that 
Barclays had been conducting its checks on the application legitimately.
She didnt think that these problems suggested Barclays was discriminating against 
Miss W, but recognised that they had caused her some distress and inconvenience. 
So she also recommended that Barclays pay Miss W compensation of £500.
Barclays accepted our investigators view and proceeded to contact Miss W with a view to 
reconsider her application under the exceptions process. To do so, it asked Miss W for some 
further information  which she declined to provide. The application, therefore, did not 
proceed.
Miss W didnt accept our investigators view. She maintained that she had already provided 
all the information necessary to demonstrate her eligibility and that her application had 
already been approved, so shouldnt have to provide anything else. In any event, she said 
that the Loan Scheme was now closed and she was no longer self-employed, so instead it 
was a matter of compensating her for the financial losses shed incurred from being deprived 
of the loan to which shed been entitled. She reiterated that the banks handling of her 
application had been discriminatory and unfair, and caused a severe impact on her health in 
addition to the time and trouble shed spent on dealing with things. So she said she was 
looking for compensation of £200,000.
With no resolution, the matter was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
As my initial conclusions differed from those of our investigator, I sent a provisional decision 
to both parties to let them know my thoughts and invite them to make any further 
representations before I made a final decision. I said:
Having done so, Im not currently persuaded that Barclays handled Miss Ws 
application fairly. While lenders were entitled  and expected  to verify an 
applicants eligibility and ultimately had the discretion to decline an application where 
they werent satisfied of this, I dont think the bank exercised that discretion fairly in 
the circumstances here. 
From what Barclays has told us, it declined to consider Miss Ws request on the basis 
that it wasnt satisfied Miss W was operating as a sole trader prior to 1 March 2020. 
But I think Miss W provided a reasonable amount of evidence to demonstrate that 
she was  and that there were legitimate reasons why the further information that the 
bank was seeking couldnt be provided. In particular, I would highlight that:
Miss W provided a copy of her 2019/20 tax return. While the banks original 
request for a copy of her 2018/19 wasnt unreasonable  and was in line with the Scheme requirements  Miss W only started trading in July 2019. So she 
wouldnt have needed to file a self-assessment return for 2018/19, given the 
tax year runs until 5 April. And the bank wouldve been aware of Miss Ws 
start date, which she declared when opening her business account and as it 
was stated in the 2019/20 return she provided.
Miss W provided invoices for her trading activity, which correspond with the 
credits received into her personal account. And, more broadly, align with the 
level of income declared on her tax return. While Miss W wasnt able to 
provide a copy of a contract with her client, I dont think this is particularly 
unusual or unreasonable  with invoices instead being issued on a monthly 
basis, dependent on the work completed.
Barclays asked Miss W for a copy of utility bills for her business premises, but 
she couldnt provide these because she didnt have a separate business 
premises. Her line of work didnt require one. This wouldve been evident to 
the bank from the outset. Barclays also requested a copy of an insurance 
policy, but Ive not seen that this was a requirement of Miss Ws line of work 
either.
In responding to our investigators view, Barclays seemed to accept that there were 
shortcomings in how it had handled Miss Ws application  seeing as it agreed to 
reconsider the application under the exceptions process. (I should briefly confirm to 
Miss W that it was still possible for lenders to consider an application through this 
process until 31 December 2021 on an exceptional basis, given Ive noted her 
concerns about our investigators recommendation). But the bank then proceeded to 
ask Miss W for her much the same information that it had already requested and that 
she couldnt, reasonably, provide  namely, her 2018/19 tax return and a business 
insurance policy as proof of trade. So a further application wasnt properly 
considered, and the exceptions process closed at the end of last year.
Taking all of this into account, I think Miss W was deprived of the opportunity to apply 
for a Bounce Back Loan. It is still difficult for me to say that the application wouldve 
been approved with any certainty  there are other potential reasons why it couldve 
failed, whether other eligibility issues or following other checks. But it seems to me 
that Miss W was likely entitled to a loan in the region of £2,500  and so, had 
Barclays assessed her application fairly, she wouldve got it. Its also worth noting 
that Miss W couldve applied elsewhere if Barclays had simply declined her 
application  but as applicants could only have one application underway at any one 
time, she was prevented from going elsewhere as Barclays didnt confirm its decision 
until after the Scheme closed to new applications at the end of March 2021.
Ive carefully considered Miss Ws concern that Barclays actions were motivated or 
influenced by her nationality. Ive not seen anything to suggest that was the case; 
rather I think the bank was seeking to comply with its standard policies and 
procedures  but did so, in my view, too strictly and without fair consideration of 
Miss Ws broader circumstances. While I dont think this was due to her nationality, I 
can see why she such a concern wouldve arisen in light of the shortcomings on 
Barclays part.
It is now not possible for Miss W to obtain a loan under the Scheme. And I 
understand from what shes told us that circumstances have moved on anyway, such 
that she is no longer operating as a sole trader. So Ive considered whether Barclays 
should compensate her for any financial losses she suffered as a result of being 
deprived the loan. To that end, Miss W hasnt described or evidenced any specific losses that can be 
attributed to being left without the loan. Miss W says she got by with the support of 
loans from family and friends, borrowing £31,000  which was far more than the 
amount I think she would have been eligible for under the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme. Shes shown that she owes money on an overdraft and credit card, also 
held with Barclays  again being far more than the amount she wouldve obtained 
had her loan application been successful. Ultimately, Ive not seen that Miss W is any 
worse off financially than she wouldve been even if the loan had been granted  
bearing in mind it was, in itself, a debt that she wouldve needed to repay. 
So, based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think Miss W suffered any financial losses 
as a result of being deprived the loan. I do, though, think the matter has caused 
Miss W some significant distress and inconvenience.
On top of the issues already highlighted, the application process also took much 
longer than it should have done. As Ive noted above, Barclays made requests for 
information that wasnt necessary or appropriate in the circumstances. The bank 
spent an inordinate amount of time asking Miss W to provide copy bank statements  
despite Miss W holding her accounts with the bank. There was an extensive amount 
of unnecessary correspondence as a result of these issues. There were a number of 
other administrative errors, including when the bank incorrectly confirmed to Miss W 
that she could apply when in fact the issues remained unresolved and when the 
application was closed down prematurely.
There would always have been a certain amount of legitimate correspondence  
taking up Miss Ws time and trouble  in completing the application and responding 
to Barclays legitimate questions. But there was also an avoidable level of 
inconvenience caused by shortcomings in how the bank handled things. And this all 
came during a particularly stressful time for Miss W, eager to access support through 
the loan during the pandemic (with the industry she worked in particularly affected by 
the lockdown restrictions)  exacerbating her financial difficultly and requiring her to 
seek support elsewhere. 
Ive also borne in mind that, as noted above, I can see why Miss W wouldve had 
greater cause for concern than shouldve been necessary as to the basis of the 
banks decision, given that she had provided all the information she reasonably could 
and yet was still being subjected to further questioning and, ultimately, declined for a 
loan to which she appeared eligible. 
Ive also considered what Miss W has told us of the impact on her mental and 
physical health. It is difficult for me to cite the banks actions as a sole or primary 
cause of the suffering shes described, as Im not qualified to do so and Ive not been 
provided with any medical evidence to demonstrate that. As Ive outlined above, I 
dont doubt that it wouldve been upsetting and added to what was an already 
stressful time for Miss W and have factored that into my assessment of fair 
compensation  for which we follow published guidelines that are available on our 
website should either party wish to know more.
So, taking all of the above into account, Im intending to require Barclays to pay 
Miss W compensation of £1,000 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
errors.
Barclays didnt accept my provisional decision. In short, the bank said that it had made 
legitimate further enquiries of Miss W when looking to proceed with the application under the exceptions process  but Miss W hadnt responded with the information it requested, so it 
still couldnt satisfy itself that she met the eligibility criteria. And in light of that, it didnt think 
the higher compensation award Id proposed was warranted.
Miss W didnt accept my provisional decision either. She replied in some detail, the key 
points of which I see as:
She was eligible for the loan and had provided all the requisite documents, especially 
in light of what was available to her as a sole trader, with the bank conducting checks 
that were beyond those required under the Scheme rules or undertaken on other 
customers applications. She believed that she shouldve received it by law.
She wanted a loan of £25,000, rather than the £2,500 Id referred to. She wouldve 
been eligible for this and she didnt accept my view that her application could have 
been declined for other reasons. 
She didnt accept that there was any process by which an application couldve been 
considered after the Scheme deadline of 31 March 2021, particularly as her 
application had been closed. She was concerned that this was an illegitimate means 
by which to ask her for more information and thought it was further evidence of 
discrimination.
She underlined the severity of the shortcomings in the level of service she received 
from Barclays, many of which she considered to have been intentional, 
discriminatory, and motivated by a desire to deter her from applying for the loan. 
While Id accepted that she hadnt been treated fairly, she thought it followed that she 
had been treated unequally and therefore been discriminated against.
She still expected compensation of £200,000 and thought she had supported this 
claim with an explicit description of her losses, comprising financial loss as a result of 
being deprived the Bounce Back Loan in addition to the impact that the matters had 
on her health. She didnt think it was relevant for me to evaluate how much money 
she wouldve been able to borrow under the Scheme, or the debt that shed incurred 
in lieu of the Bounce Back Loan.
More broadly, she was concerned that I hadnt taken into account all of the points 
shed raised in previous correspondence or addressed these within my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not reached a different conclusion to that of my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why the further comments Ive received from both parties havent changed my mind.
I should start by saying that in doing so, I wont be addressing each and every point Miss W 
has raised. Rather, my findings are concentrated on the issues that I consider to be most 
relevant to how Ive reached my decision  and in a level of detail that I consider to be 
appropriate  in keeping with the informal nature of our service. No discourtesy is meant by 
that and I can assure Miss W that Ive read and considered everything she has provided to 
us.Looking firstly at Miss Ws eligibility for the loan, I should reiterate that my provisional 
decision set out that I believed Miss W did meet the eligibility criteria based on what Id seen. 
But it doesnt follow that this alone meant the loan was guaranteed. There were still other 
checks to be made  including anti-money laundering, fraud, and Know Your Customer 
checks  which I have no way of confirming that Miss W wouldve passed. Nonetheless, I 
have accepted that it is most likely that Miss W wouldve obtained a Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme, had Barclays not made the errors I identified  which included asking for 
information that I agreed was unnecessary in the circumstances.
Where I disagree with Miss W is on the amount of the loan that she wouldve been able to 
obtain. This is relevant to my consideration of the impact that being deprived of it had on her. 
Under the Scheme rules, an applicant could borrow a maximum of 25% of their annual 
turnover for 2019. So Miss W wouldve needed a turnover of £100,000 to qualify for the loan 
of £25,000 that she says she wanted. The evidence Ive seen  including her bank 
statements and tax return  dont support this, and still leads me to think that a loan of 
£2,500 was the most likely outcome of her application had it been handled correctly.
While I can understand why Miss W might feel that Barclays actions were deliberate or 
indeed discriminatory, I havent seen anything else that would me to think that was the case 
since issuing my provisional decision. Being treated unfairly  as I think Miss W was  
doesnt automatically equate to suffering discriminatory treatment.
Given the application ought not to have been declined in the manner it was, I still think the 
right remedy to Miss Ws complaint  while the option existed  was for Barclays to 
reconsider the matter through the exceptions process. Miss W disputes that such a process 
ever existed, but I can assure her that it did and that it closed at the end of last year. In my 
provisional decision, I explained that I didnt think Barclays had handled the application 
through this exceptions process fairly  which it disputes. But its not provided me with any 
new evidence in this regard, and I still think that the information it requested was 
unreasonable in the circumstances here for the reasons given in my provisional decision. 
The banks concerns appear to have been Miss Ws employment status in 2018/19 and that 
she may have been receiving rental income from elsewhere. But it had in its possession a 
letter from HMRC setting out Miss Ws work history covering that period and Im not 
convinced that the position with any additional streams of income ought reasonably to have 
affected Miss Ws Bounce Back Loan application for the business in question. So Im still not 
persuaded it was reasonable to ask for further evidence on these points.
As I still think Miss W was unfairly deprived of a loan of £2,500, Ive thought about how shes 
lost out as a result. I understand Miss Ws unhappiness at my speculation in considering 
how things may have been different  but in working out how she has been impacted, I have 
to consider the position she would be in if things had gone as they should have. And the 
circumstances in which she now finds herself are relevant to that consideration.
I still cant see that Miss W has incurred any greater losses  or derived any less profit  
than she wouldve done had she obtained the loan. I accept its possible that she may have 
been able to invest the loan in her business and make a profit. But shes not demonstrated 
or evidenced how that wouldve happened, or what those profits wouldve been. Its also 
possible that she wouldnt have made any profit, and wouldve been left with the cost of 
repaying the loan over a number of years. And in lieu of the Bounce Back Loan, I understand 
shes borrowed elsewhere  predominantly from family and friends, which  from what Ive 
seen, shes done without incurring any cost. So I still dont think there is any basis on which I 
could require Barclays to pay compensation for any financial losses. There is certainly no 
logical basis on which I could fairly direct the bank to pay Miss W the £200,000 she is 
seeking.So I still think it is a matter of compensating Miss W for the distress and inconvenience these 
issues caused her. Ive reconsidered how being deprived of the loan  and the shortcomings 
in the service she received  impacted her in light of her further comments. While these 
served to underline her strength of feeling, they didnt include any new evidence or 
information that I hadnt previously taken into account. Given everything Ive seen, I still think 
that £1,000 represents fair compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Miss W compensation of 
£1,000.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman