DRN-3668671
The complaint
Ms W has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc was irresponsible when it provided her 
with a credit card in 2016.
What happened
HSBC opened a credit card account for Ms W in July 2016 with a credit limit of £5,500. 
This type of credit was an open-ended or running account facility.
Ms W says that HSBC shouldnt have given her this amount of credit at the time. She 
says it didnt carry out appropriate credit checks before lending to her, and such checks 
would have shown that she had a high level of existing debt and was dependent on short 
term loans. Ms W says she transferred a balance to the card, but the high limit became 
unmanageable once interest was incurred. She said she struggled to meet her 
repayments and had to borrow from elsewhere.
HSBC says that any type of lending requires a credit scored application which reviews 
information held with credit reference agencies. It decided to offer Ms W a credit limit of
£5,500 and she hadnt been in contact to say that she had concerns about this or was in 
financial difficulty. HSBC says that it had since agreed a repayment plan with Ms W and 
didnt uphold her complaint.
Ms W brought her complaint to us. Our investigator assessed the complaint and found 
that HSBC should have gone further in its affordability checks when it opened Ms Ws 
account. They concluded that, had proportionate checks been carried out, HSBC would 
have learnt that Ms W wasnt likely to be able to repay the credit sustainably. They 
concluded that HSBC shouldnt have opened an account for Ms W and recommended 
that it pay compensation for this.
HSBC disagreed with our investigators recommendation. It said it carried out the required 
credit checks and found the account affordable for Ms W. However, it also told us that no 
external debts were considered at the time of her application because no information was 
returned from its request to the credit reference agencies. HSBC has since identified that 
its information retrieval failed on this application. It reviewed Ms Ws application alongside 
this new information and was still of the view that the facility was affordable for her.
Ms W asked for her complaint to come to an ombudsman to review and resolve, and it 
came to me. I issued a provisional decision on 10 August 2022 explaining why I thought 
Ms Ws complaint should be upheld and setting out what needed to happen to put things 
right for her. Ms W agreed with my decision. HSBC didnt agree and provided further 
information and comment on what Id said. It did agreed to carry out some of my redress 
proposals as a gesture of goodwill to settle Ms Ws complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As before, Ive also had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible 
lending (set out in its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which lenders, such as HSBC, 
need to abide by. HSBC will be aware of these, and our approach to these types of 
complaints is set out on our website, so I wont refer to the regulations in detail here but 
will summarise them.
Before entering into a credit agreement, HSBC needed to check that Ms W could afford to 
meet her repayments sustainably. CONC 5.3.1G(1) stated that in making its assessment 
a firm should take into account more than assessing a customers ability to repay the 
credit. In other words, HSBC needed to check Ms W could repay the credit out of her 
usual means, within a reasonable period of time. This isnt explicitly defined but means a 
customer should be able to repay the credit on a timeline similar to that used for other 
forms of unsecured lending, for example a fixed sum personal loan of an amount 
equivalent to the credit limit. HSBC also needed to check that Ms W could meet her 
repayments without having to borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty 
or other adverse consequences.
The overarching requirement was that HSBC needed to pay due regard to Ms Ws 
interests and treat her fairly. CONC 2.2.2G(1) gave an example of contravening this as 
targeting customers with regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable for them by 
virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other 
reason.
Having considered everything again, including what HSBC has said in response to my 
provisional decision, I remain of the view that Ms Ws complaint should be upheld and that 
my proposals for what needs to happen to put things right for her should stand. I will set 
out everything again in this final decision.
HSBC said that in order to assess Ms Ws creditworthiness, it asked her about her 
income, estimated her expenses and considered information from her credit file about her 
existing debt repayments. Ms W told HSBC that her income was just under £29,000. 
HSBC estimated that she had a net monthly income of about £1,815. It estimated Ms Ws 
expenses as £607 and her rent as £442, a total of £1,049, leaving her with £766 of 
disposable income.
Ive reviewed the application and assessment information HSBC provided. I cant see that 
HSBC took steps here to independently verify what Ms W had said about her income. The 
regulations in place at the time stated that that if a lender took income or expenditure into 
account in its assessment it wasnt generally sufficient for it to rely solely for its 
assessment of the customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer (CONC 5.3.1G 4(b)).
In response to my provisional decision, HSBC acknowledged that this hadnt been 
covered in its previous response but clarified that Ms Ws annual income was validated in 
line with the normal range based on age, job type and demographic information, by which 
Ive assumed it sense-checked what Ms W said about her income with statistical data. 
HSBC says it believes this proportional approach to income verification met the relevant 
CONC requirements that were live at this time: 5.2A.15 (2): The firm must take 
reasonable steps to determine the amount, or make a reasonable estimate, of the 
customers current income. With respect to HSBC those regulations were not in place 
until November 2018 and the relevant regulations were CONC 5.3.1G, as Id quoted 
which also stated that lender should take account of actual current income or expenditure. Leaving aside the question of whether HSBCs check was in line with that guidance, Id 
provisionally concluded that its checks overall werent proportionate on this occasion. Id 
also had concerns about the check HSBC carried out on Ms Ws existing debts. Id said 
that, given the amount of credit relative to her stated income, I thought HSBC was right to 
consider what existing debts Ms W had and look for some independent verification of 
these. As mentioned, HSBC has since identified that it didnt receive the information it had 
requested from the credit reference agencies and that it didnt in fact include any existing 
debt its assessment of Ms Ws creditworthiness. Given that HSBC says it estimates an 
applicants expenses and relies on this data in its assessments I think it needed to take 
further steps here to ensure that the information it relied on was complete and correct 
(CONC 5.3.3G).
Altogether, I remain of the view that the checks HSBC carried out here werent 
proportionate in the circumstances of this case and it ought to have looked into Ms Ws 
finances in more detail before agreeing credit for her on this occasion.
HSBC says had it successfully retrieved data on Ms Ws credit commitments at the time it 
would have identified a credit card balance of £6,350 and a fixed monthly payment of 
£158. It says its based this on batch data it has since obtained, but I havent seen a copy 
of this and I dont know how it differs from information it might have obtained at the time.
HSBC goes on to say that these debts would have added £476 to Ms Ws monthly 
estimated expenses of £1,049, assuming a 5% payment to the credit card. This would 
reduce her disposable income to £290. HSBC says The total monthly cost to service 
maximum monthly interest charges and repay a £5,500 credit balance in 36 months is 
£275 per month, which was covered by the customers calculated disposable income at 
the point of application.
HSBC also said Whilst we assess affordability under a scenario where the customer 
does not transfer existing balances to their new HSBC card, we would note that had the 
customer done this and closed or reduced existing credit card facilities, they would have 
been able to reduce their total borrowing considerably during the 0% promotional term 
without increasing their outgoings.
HSBC was required to consider more than Ms Ws ability to repay her credit in a 
reasonable period of time. It also needed to consider whether or not Ms W would be able 
to do so without experiencing financial difficulty. I dont think HSBCs assessment was in 
line with the regulatory guidance at the time if it found (or should have found) that shed 
potentially have £15 a month with which to meet any unexpected or seasonal costs after 
meeting her usual expenses and all her financial commitments. I note that its estimates 
suggest Ms W was spending over a quarter of her income on repaying her existing debt 
and might potentially end up spending over 40% if it agreed further credit for her.
Furthermore, I dont think the information HSBC has now provided shows the full extent of 
Ms Ws existing debt at the time of her application. Shes provided a recent copy of her 
credit file which shows some of the debts she had at the time of applying for this credit 
card in June 2016. These include a hire purchase agreement with monthly payments of 
£288, a loan with monthly repayments of £198 and an outstanding short term loan with a 
payment owing of £433. I think this information shows that Ms W was unlikely to be able 
to meet her repayments for this credit card without difficulty.
I understand that Ms W missed payments in late 2017 and throughout 2018. Her credit file 
shows she took cash advances on her credit card in most months in these years. HSBC 
told us that Ms W applied for a £6,000 loan in February 2017, some seven months later 
but was declined due to her level of existing debt. She was accepted for a current account about a year later in July 2017 but was not offered an overdraft facility, an application for 
which was declined in November 2017 due to her having multiple short term loans. A 
further loan application was declined in late 2018 and Ms Ws card was blocked in late 
2019 due to the level of arrears. I understand HSBC agreed a repayment plan with Ms W 
in early 2021.
Altogether, Ive concluded that had HSBC looked into Ms Ws finances in more depth, it 
would most likely have declined her application for a credit card at this time and so I think 
it was irresponsible to have given her this facility. Ive set out below what it needs to do to 
put things right.
Putting things right
Where we find credit to have been agreed irresponsibly, our approach to putting things 
right is to direct the lender to refund any interest, fees or charges associated with the 
credit that were paid by the borrower. In addition, we usually direct the lender to pay a 
refund of 8% per annum simple interest on these payments where the borrower was 
unfairly deprived of their money. Wed expect the borrower to repay the capital borrowed 
as they have had the use of these funds.
Ive found that HSBC was irresponsible when it offered Ms Ws the account. In order to 
put Ms W back into the position she would have been in had this not happened means 
she shouldnt have to pay any interest or charges on the account from the outset. 
The redress proposals set out in my provisional decision also included removing any 
adverse information HSBC had recorded on Ms Ws credit file as a result of her not 
managing to meet her repayments. 
HSBC said in response to my redress proposals that historic data on Ms Ws credit file 
ought to remain. This is because Ms W didnt pay anything when she missed her 
payments and it was likely she wasnt making any payments to her other debts. HSBC 
says that Ms W could have paid something towards her debt with it and that the missed 
payments should remain to highlight to other lenders the affordability issues Ms W has 
had in the past. 
While I appreciate the purpose of a credit record, in this case Ive found that this credit 
facility should not have been granted to Ms W because of the likelihood of her incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences (CONC 5.2.1G(2)). 
I think having adverse information about this account recorded on her credit file is an 
example of a significant adverse impact on Ms Ws financial situation and needs to be 
considered when putting things right for her.
Ive concluded, as before, that while its fair that Ms W repays the money she borrowed 
she shouldnt incur any associated interest or charges or be impacted by the 
consequences of not paying them.  
Id also directed HSBC to refund any associated insurance premiums that Ms W might 
have paid. HSBC has confirmed that there werent any associated with this account and 
so I havent referred to them in my redress below. 
In summary, HSBC should:
oRework Ms Ws account to ensure that from the opening of the account no interest 
is charged. Any late payments or overlimit fees should also be removed; andoApply Ms Ws repayments to this adjusted balance; and
oIf the effect of this reworking results in there no longer being an outstanding 
balance to pay, then any remaining amounts paid by Ms W should be treated as 
overpayments and returned to her along with 8% simple interest* on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. In this case, HSBC should remove any adverse information about the 
account from Ms Ws credit file.
oIf an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC needs to ensure that Ms W only pays this adjusted balance. If it 
considers it appropriate to record negative information on Ms Ws credit file, it 
should backdate this to when it shouldnt have provided the credit in question in 
the first place.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must 
give Ms W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, I am upholding Ms Ws complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc and 
it now needs to put things right as Ive set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman