DRN-3271303
The complaint
E (a limited company) complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt return deeds for 
properties it had mortgaged with the bank, didnt confirm the mortgages had been repaid and 
hasnt released its charges over the properties. 
E is the complainant here. But it is represented by its director, Mr I. As all of our dealings 
have been with Mr I, Ill mainly refer to him within the decision. 
What happened
E had two commercial mortgages with Barclays on two properties. One mortgage was repaid 
in 2018 and the other mortgage was repaid in 2019. Mr I complained to Barclays in 2021 
saying that the original deeds and leases hadnt been returned to him. He also said that hed 
not had confirmation that the mortgages had been repaid and that Barclays still held a 
charge over the properties.
Barclays responded to the complaint saying it had discharged both mortgages shortly after 
they were repaid and wrote to Mr I confirming this at the time. It said it hadnt been provided 
with the original deeds but said it had sent Mr I copies of the lease it held for one of the 
properties and the preregistration deeds at the time of the mortgages being redeemed. 
Barclays sent Mr I another copy of the lease it had held. It also offered Mr I £100 
compensation for the time it took to respond to his complaint.
Mr I didnt accept this, and he referred the complaint to us. One of our Investigators looked 
into the complaint. She was satisfied that Barclays had confirmed that the mortgages had 
been paid. However, she thought it was likely Barclays had held the original deeds and lost 
them. Our Investigator explained that deeds were now held electronically at the 
Land Registry so this wouldnt have an impact on Mr I or E. But she thought that Barclays 
should compensate E a further £150 for the inconvenience of having to contact the Land 
Registry to obtain copies of the deeds. 
Barclays accepted this, but Mr I didnt. He said, in summary, that hed spent nearly two years 
trying to obtain this information from Barclays and he didnt feel £150 covered this 
sufficiently. He also said that Barclays still held charges over the properties at Companies 
House and wanted Barclays to remove these.
Mr I asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. So its been passed to me to 
consider and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has provided us with screen shots and copies of the letters which show it confirmed 
the mortgages had been repaid in 2018 and 2019. I dont know why these letters werent 
received by E, but, on balance of probabilities, I think its most likely they were sent. So, I 
dont think Barclays has made a mistake here.
Mr I says hes spent two years trying to get this confirmation plus copies of the original 
deeds. However, Barclays has no records of him contacting it after the mortgages were 
repaid until 2021. And Mr I hasnt provided any evidence to show hed been in contact any 
sooner. It seems that when Mr I did get in contact in 2021, Barclays quickly responded 
confirming the mortgages had been repaid and provided Mr I with the information it still held, 
including copies of the lease it had. So I dont think E has been caused an significant 
inconvenience in relation to this particular issue.
Moving on to Mr Is point that Barclays hasnt returned the original deeds. Barclays says it 
didnt hold the original deeds. However, Mr I says the deeds were held by Barclays. And hes 
provided an email from his solicitor to confirm they were sent to Barclays. I also know it was 
common at the time for lenders to hold the original deeds. I cant say for sure, but on 
balance I think its more likely than not these deeds were sent to Barclays when E took the 
mortgages.
This means, its more likely that not that Barclays has lost the deeds. I understand Mr I is 
frustrated by this and would like copies of the deeds. However, the Land Registry moved all 
of its records to being held electronically some years ago. Weve checked, and the deeds 
are showing correctly for the two properties. So Mr I will easily be able to get copies of them. 
Mr I says that not having the original deeds may make it harder to sell the property. I dont 
agree though. Given that the deeds are now stored electronically, I cant see why this would 
have any impact on the ability of Mr I to sell the property.
Im sure this has caused Mr I some frustration and distress. But he isnt the eligible 
complainant here, his company E is. A company cant be frustrated or distressed. It can be 
inconvenienced though. And having to obtain copies of the deeds is an inconvenience. But 
Im satisfied the additional £150 our investigator has recommended is sufficient 
compensation in this regard. I cant see this has caused any financial loss to E. 
Lastly, Mr I says Barclays still holds charges over the two properties. Weve contacted the 
Land Registry who have confirmed that there are no outstanding charges held by Barclays 
over either of the properties. Weve also contacted Companies House who have confirmed 
that Barclays has two outstanding charges over E itself. Whilst it is Barclays responsibility to 
remove any charges registered against the properties with the Land Registry, this isnt the 
same for charges registered with Companies House.  
To remove these charges, a form (MR04) needs to be filed at Companies House confirming 
the charge has been satisfied. Only the director of a company  in this case Mr I on behalf of 
E  needs to sign the form. Barclays need not be involved in this process. So once the loans 
had been paid off, it was up to Mr I to ensure that these charges were removed. Mr I can 
now do this.
Overall, I think Barclays has caused E some minor inconvenience in losing the deeds to the 
properties. But I dont think this will have any financial impact on E. And I think the £150 our 
investigator has suggested is fair compensation in the circumstances. So I wont be 
recommending further compensation.  
Putting things right
Barclays should pay E a further £150 compensation (in addition to the £100 its already paid) 
to settle this complaint.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman