DRN-4150284
The complaint
Mr J has complained about the fact U K Insurance Limited (UKI) referred him to a third party
company, who Ill refer to as A, so that they could handle his motor insurance claim. And that 
they did this without making it clear they were not responsible for As actions.
What happened
Mr Js work vehicle was damaged whilst it was parked. He called UKI to report the claim the
next day. UKIs claim handler suggested his claim should be handled by what he described
as a non-fault company. And he transferred Mr J to A. A wouldnt take on the claim initially
and Mr J had to make further calls to UKI, who helped in getting A to take on his claim. Mr A
still had problems with A in getting the repairs for his vehicle organised and getting a
temporary replacement vehicle. In the end, he was left without a vehicle for his work as a
waste disposal contractor for two weeks. And hes said he lost at least £2,435 in business
income as a result of this.
Mr J complained to UKI. They rejected his complaint on the basis they were not responsible
for the actions of A and had done their best to assist him in the circumstances. Mr J asked
us to consider his complaint.
One of our investigators did this. Originally he said that he didnt think it should be upheld, as
UKI werent responsible for the actions of A. However, he eventually said it should be upheld
on the basis UKI didnt make it clear to Mr J when they referred him to A that A were an
independent company and UKI would not be responsible for any problems he had with them.
He concluded that if they had made this clear Mr J would have opted to claim under his
policy with UKI instead and  most likely - would not have been left without a replacement 
vehicle for a considerable period. He said UKI should pay £100 in compensation for distress 
and inconvenience and £2,435 to cover Mr Js loss of earnings.
UKI did not agree with the investigators view. They said Mr J was able to distinguish
between UKI and A and that he understood the difference between claiming through A and
claiming under his policy with UKI. They also said Mr J clearly had no intention of claiming
through his own policy, as he didnt want to pay his excess up front and there was no 
provision for a like for like replacement vehicle. So, even if he had claimed through them it
would not have prevented his loss of earnings. They also suggested he could claim his
loss of earnings from the third partys insurance company.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 May 2023 and set out what Id provisionally decided as 
follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the initial call Mr J made to UKI to report his claim. In this call I would have
expected the claim handler to make it absolutely clear that A was a completely separate
company and UKI would not be responsible for their actions if Mr A used them. Id also have
expected him to explain that Mr J could end up being responsible for some costs if he went
down this route and the third party claim didnt go in his favour. This would then have
enabled Mr J to make an informed decision on whether to claim against the third party
insurer through A or whether to claim under his policy with UKI. The handler didnt make
things clear and instead just referred to A as a non-fault company. And I think he gave the
impression claiming through them was the normal route in Mr Ds situation.
This means that when Mr J had problems with A he ended up contacting UKI for help without
appreciating they werent responsible. And I think this in itself led to a great deal of
frustration on his part. And this was all off the back of what I would describe as a poor
referral call. I appreciate the second handler Mr J spoke to at UKI was really helpful and did
explain that a claim through A was different to a claim under his policy with UKI. She even
mentioned she was aware of some problems with the service provided by A. But Mr J had
already decided to let A take on his claim at this stage and I still dont think he fully
appreciated UKI werent actually responsible for As actions. I think the distress and
inconvenience Mr J experienced because of all this warrants a fairly significant amount of
compensation. And having considered the level of frustration this caused Mr J, I think £300
is appropriate.
However, it would only be fair and reasonable for me to award something to cover Mr Js
loss of earnings if I felt he would not have experienced this loss if UKIs handlers had been
clearer generally and especially on the fact UKI werent responsible for As actions. And I
dont think I can say this would have been the case. This is because Mr J was clearly very
keen to avoid paying his excess up front and he could only avoid this if he made a claim
against the third party insurer through A or on his own without support. Also, he did not have
the option of a like for like replacement vehicle under his policy with UKI. So, if hed pursued
this route and discussed using one of UKIs approved repairers hed have found out he
would only be entitled to a car or small van whilst his vehicle was in for repair. Whereas with
a claim through A he would have been entitled to a like for like replacement vehicle. Also, at
the point he decided to go through A Mr J wouldnt have anticipated running into problems
and being left without a vehicle for around two weeks.
In the circumstances, I think if UKIs claims handlers had been really clear with Mr J on the
role of A and what would happen, he would still have decided to use A. And this means he
would still have ended up with no vehicle for a period of time and a loss of earnings.
I appreciate Mr J has lost a considerable amount of money due to As failings, but  as Ive
explained - I do not think this was directly because UKI failed to explain what was happening
to him properly. In view of this, I do not consider it would be fair and reasonable for me to
make UKI cover this loss of earnings.
Unfortunately, we cant consider a separate complaint about A on this issue. But it might be
possible for Mr J to claim his loss of earnings back from the third party insurer himself or with
the help of A or with the help of a solicitor.
In summary, I do not think it is appropriate for me to make UKI cover Mr Js loss of earnings.
But I do think their poor referral process to A caused Mr J a significant amount of distress
and inconvenience and they should pay him £300 in compensation for this.
I gave both parties until 31 May to provide further comments and evidence in response to my 
provisional decision.
UKI initially responded to say they didnt agree with my provisional decision. However, they 
have since said they accept it and they have agreed to pay the £300 in in addition to making 
their sincere apologies to Mr J. Mr J does not agree with my provisional decision. He still thinks UKI are responsible for his 
loss of earnings. Hes said, as it was always clear he wasnt at fault for the accident, he 
would have been able to recover his excess and any other costs and  if hed realised what 
was happening - he would have kept his claim under one company to avoid confusion. As far 
as he was concerned, he was dealing with one company and he found the process very 
confusing. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted what Mr J has said, but I still dont think he would have opted to claim under his 
own policy with UKI if they had explained what was happening properly to him and the 
potential issues with going through A. I say this because the easiest way to avoid paying his 
fairly large excess up front and get a like for like replacement vehicle quickly was going 
through A. Mr J could have gone direct to the third party insurer, but there was no guarantee 
theyd arrange the repair of his vehicle quickly or offer him a like for like replacement vehicle. 
As, Ive said previously, Mr J would not have known when he committed to using A that they 
were going to handle things badly and he was going to be left without a vehicle. So, while I 
appreciate that with the benefit of hindsight, he is adamant he would have claimed through 
UKI and not through A, I still do not think this is what would have happened. Obviously, I 
cant know for sure, but I have to decide what I think is most likely to have happened.
As I think Mr J would have claimed through A even if UKI had been clear on what was 
happening, it follows that I still dont think they are liable for the income he lost. This is 
because I dont think this loss was as a result of the poor referral by UKI to A.
I do however still think UKIs poor referral caused Mr J significant distress and inconvenience 
for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision; and that £300 in compensation for this is 
fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold Mr Js 
complaint and award him £300 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Js complaint and order UK Insurance Limited to pay him £300 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman