DRN-3165808
The complaint
Mr P complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as Mini Financial Services 
(MFS) mishandled the setting up of a new hire purchase agreement and wrongly deducted 
two direct debits from him for an earlier hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr P entered into a hire purchase agreement with MFS for a car. The 
agreement was for 48 months and set out the payment terms as 47 monthly repayments of 
£370 and in the 48th month there was an optional final payment of £9,209.74. 
In July 2021 Mr P entered into a new hire purchase agreement for new car which would 
replace the first. Again, the agreement was for 48 months though the 47 monthly payments 
were set at £331.57 and the optional final payment in the 48th month was £10,552.34. The 
arrangement was that Mr Ps first agreement was to be settled and he would take 
possession of his new car in July 2021.
MFS required proof of identity to release the necessary funds for the new car but 
unfortunately it transpired that Mr Ps driving licence had expired earlier in 2021 and he was 
awaiting a replacement from DVLA. MFS refused to release the funds until valid ID could be 
provided by Mr P. Mr P complained to MFS about the delay.
MFS reviewed the position and agreed that due to the length of time Mr P had been 
customer and that proof of identity had been established earlier it would override its usual 
process and release the funds. 
Mr Ps new car was delivered to him in September 2021 and the outstanding credit for the 
original agreement was settled. Mr P complained to MFS that it had unfairly taken direct 
debit payments under the first agreement in July and August 2021 and he asked for this 
money to be reimbursed. He said the first contract was no longer valid as he had signed the 
new agreement in July 2021, and it had come into effect one month later.
MFS didnt uphold his complaint. It said that Mr P had retained the first car up until the 
second new car had been delivered and that the original contract had stayed live until this 
second new car had been delivered. MFS said it was its usual process to seek ID for 
payment purposes but, on this occasion as a gesture of goodwill, it had agreed to waive this 
requirement to facilitate a speedy conclusion.
Mr P disagreed with MFSs decision and complained to this service. He said hed signed the 
new agreement in July 2021 and that the previous agreement had therefore ended meaning 
MFS hadnt been entitled to take the payments that it had in July and August 2021. He also 
said that the agreement hed signed in September 2021 when the new car had finally been 
delivered had been for a different amount than that set in the agreement hed signed in July 
2021. He requested reimbursement of £740 together with compensation for the distress this 
matter had caused him.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She said that she 
didnt think MFS had acted unfairly in taking the payments under the first agreement. She 
said that the new agreement, although received in July 2021, wasnt actually processed by 
MFS until September 2021 due to the issue with Mr Ps driving licence. It was in September 
2021 that the first agreement had been settled and the new car delivered.
Our investigator said the delay in activating the new agreement was due to MFSs business 
practice of requiring photo identity before releasing funds and Mr Ps driving licence needing 
to be renewed by the DVLA. She said it wasnt in this services remit to comment on what 
information was required by a business in these circumstances though in any event MFS 
had taken the decision to waive this requirement which had been fair.
Mr P had raised there had been a difference in the costings between the new agreement 
hed signed in July 2021 and the agreement he said hed signed in September 2021 when 
the new car was delivered. But our investigator said she hadnt seen a copy of an agreement 
signed in September 2021 so wasnt able to comment as to whether there had been any 
change in the figures provided in the hire purchase agreement.
Mr P disagreed with our investigators view. He said the issue wasnt that he had kept the 
first car until September 2021 when the new had been delivered but that by signing the new 
agreement in July 2021 the March 2020 agreement was no longer valid. He said MFS 
shouldnt have taken the direct debit payments under the old agreement as the two 
agreements couldnt co-exist.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at complaints and deciding if a business has acted unfairly I take into account 
the relevant law, and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. However, as we are an alternative dispute resolution service, Im not necessarily bound 
by these when deciding what is fair and reasonable.
Here it isnt disputed that Mr P kept the first car until the new car was delivered in September 
2021. He says that MFS wasnt entitled to take the payments that it did as that first 
agreement was no longer valid because hed signed the new agreement in 2021. He also 
says that it wasnt his fault that the car wasnt delivered when expected in July 2021.
Ive seen that Mr P feels very strongly that these two monthly payments taken by MFS in 
July and August 2021 should be returned to him but Im afraid I dont agree, and I will set out 
why.
Ive seen that in March 2020 Mr P entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement. Under 
the terms of that agreement it could be ended in a limited number of ways, these included 
the agreement being paid in full or the car being returned and the agreement terminated 
possibly with some liability still to pay depending on the circumstances.
Here it was agreed that the hire purchase agreement taken out in March 2020 would be 
settled at the same time the funds were released for the new car which should have been 
July 2021. However, the funds were not released and there was a delay due to the lack of 
valid photo ID available for Mr P to produce. As set out by our investigator, its a matter for a business to set its processes in this regard and so I am not going to comment on this 
requirement. But the result was the July 2021 hire purchase agreement didnt go live until 
September 2021 when the funds were passed on and the new car delivered.
Ive seen from a copy of the March 2020s hire purchase agreements account that the 
settlement wasnt made until September 2021. So, Im satisfied that although Mr P had 
signed the second hire purchase agreement in July 2021, the March 2020 agreement 
remained live until that settlement payment was made. And as that agreement was still live 
and Mr P had the car relating to that agreement in his possession his liability to make the 
monthly payments of £370 remained.
Mr P says that MFS breached the July 2021 contract by failing to provide the car until 
September 2021 and that it was wrong to have two agreements in existence. But I havent 
seen any evidence that the second agreement had been activated, Mr P wasnt making any 
monthly payments under the second agreement until a month after that car was delivered. 
He also didnt receive his welcome letter for the second car until September 2021 which 
marked the start of that contract. So, I dont think that both agreements were live at the same 
time. Mr P also wasnt put at any financial disadvantage by the delay in the activation and 
delivery of the second car as he wasnt required to pay for the second car until the first had 
be collected. 
While I accept that the delay in receiving the new car would have been frustrating, I dont 
think this was due to anything MFS could be blamed for, it had its business procedures to 
apply and was entitled to do so. The delay was due to Mr Ps driving licence having expired 
earlier in the year. Ive also seen that MFS took action to minimise the delay which I think 
was fair in these circumstances. 
This delay in activating the new agreement meant that the Mr P kept the first car in his 
possession longer than hed planned but I think its fair he pays for that use and at the rate 
set by the March 2020 agreement. Ive seen that he was provided with a refund of £272.75 
when the new agreement was activated so his payments were adjusted once the new car 
had been delivered. 
For the reasons given above and although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr 
P, Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman