DRN-2952910
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC wouldnt allow them to retain all of the 
flexible features of their mortgage when they applied to port it. They also feel the porting 
process took too long and they were left with no option but to redeem their mortgage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs N held a mortgage with Barclays. The mortgage included flexible features. This 
included an accompanying mortgage current account and reserve facility. Effectively the 
reserve facility allowed Mr and Mrs N to borrow and pay back additional money, through the 
current account, as they required as long as it was paid back when the main mortgage 
ended. 
In October 2019 Mr and Mrs N enquired about porting their mortgage, as they were looking 
to buy a new property. They owed approximately £33,000 on their mortgage at that time with 
a remaining term of just over two and a half years. The reserve facility, at that point, 
wouldve potentially allowed them to borrow in excess of £85,000. Although they only had 
outstanding borrowing of £3,340 through the facility. 
Barclays confirmed that the mortgage itself could be ported but the flexible features, 
including the mortgage current account and reserve could not, so would end and need to be 
repaid if a new mortgage was agreed.
Mr and Mrs N are unhappy as they feel Barclays acted unreasonably by not agreeing that all 
of the features could remain in place when they were simply changing the property the 
mortgage was secured against.
Mr and Mrs N did apply to port their mortgage. But due to the length of time the process took 
they said theyd been left with no option but to repay the mortgage borrowing in full, as 
Barclays wasnt able to carry out a valuation before the completion date theyd agreed with 
the vendors. Mr and Mrs N said they were also unhappy with the porting process - the length 
of time it took, and the requirements Barclays put in place, including that the new property be 
subject to a physical valuation. 
One of our investigators looked into matters but didnt think Barclays had done anything 
wrong, as he felt it had acted in line with its relevant policy at the point that Mr and Mrs N 
had asked to port the mortgage
Mr and Mrs N did not agree. They didnt feel Barclays had acted fairly and its actions were 
not in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) principles around good conduct. 
They felt it had gone back on their mortgage agreement by not allowing the flexible features 
to be ported. And they said theyd been forced to redeem their mortgage because of the 
unnecessarily protracted porting process.
As Mr and Mrs N did not agree with our investigators opinion, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is worth saying to begin with that porting a mortgage is not a matter of simply 
changing the property that the existing mortgage is secured against. Porting a mortgage 
involves the repayment in full and redemption of the existing mortgage, and an entirely new 
application, for a new mortgage. The new mortgage retains some of the terms of the 
mortgage being redeemed  usually, amongst other things, the interest rate and the time 
remaining it is due to run. It is these terms that are ported. But the mortgage itself is new  
and so is subject to an application process and the relevant lending criteria that the business 
has in place at the time.
Mr and Mrs N are unhappy that Barclays said that they could not port some of the flexible 
facilities they had on their existing mortgage  in particular the reserve. 
The reserve facility and accompanying current account were additional benefits of the 
existing mortgage. And the terms of these facilities are clear that Barclays can withdraw 
them at its discretion. They operated alongside the original mortgage and were repayable 
when it was redeemed, or the term expired  whichever happened first. As applying to port 
the mortgage involved the original facility being redeemed and replaced, I think it was 
reasonable for Barclays to say that the reserve would need to be repaid.
As I understand it the reserve, and the amount that can be borrowed, is also based on the 
operation of the main mortgage over time. One example being, as the mortgage balance is 
paid off, the amount available under the reserve increases, subject to Barclays discretion. 
So, it is accrued while the mortgage was in place. Porting a mortgage, as Ive said, involves 
an entirely new loan, with the old one being repaid. So, the new mortgage wouldve started 
from scratch. And I therefore think its reasonable that anything accrued would not 
necessarily be carried over.
Barclays has also provided a copy of their lending criteria applicable when Mr and Mrs N 
applied to port. And it is these criteria that would be taken into account when the porting 
application was made  as it was again for a new loan, just on similar terms to the old 
mortgage. These set out that Barclays was no longer providing the flexible features it has 
previously and these could not be ported. So, I think Barclays has acted in line with its 
lending criteria, which is a matter of its commercial judgement, when saying that these 
features could not be ported and would not apply to the new loan. And taking everything into 
account, I dont think it has acted unreasonably or made an error by doing so.
Mr and Mrs N are also unhappy as they feel the process of applying to port the mortgage 
was unnecessarily long. Theyve said they were forced into repaying their mortgage rather 
than going ahead with the application, because it couldnt be completed by the completion 
date theyd agreed with the vendors. And they feel Barclays overall conduct went against 
FCA principles.
As Ive said, porting a mortgage requires an entirely new mortgage agreement to be entered 
into, and is subject to the lenders criteria at the time. So, I dont think it is unreasonable that 
Barclays required a mortgage application to be completed in these circumstances. 
Regulations introduced by the FCA in recent years do allow lenders to waive certain 
assessment criteria, in particular circumstances, when considering certain applications, 
including porting. But that doesnt mean a lender must waive the requirement for an 
application itself or that they are not entitled to require one.Mr and Mrs N have said that they dont think Barclays acted reasonably as the risk to it in 
this transaction was low, particularly when comparing the borrowing with the value of the 
property. But I still think Barclays was entitled to follow its usual processes  including 
requiring an interview with a mortgage adviser, assessment of the application by an 
underwriter and a valuation of the property for its benefit  to ensure that the application met 
its lending criteria. Mortgage applications can take time. And based on what Ive seen, while 
I know Mr and Mrs N wouldve liked the application to have progressed quicker, I dont think 
Barclays acted unreasonably, or unduly delayed matters.
Im also conscious that it appears Mr and Mrs N agreed a completion date with the other 
parties involved in the transaction before Barclays has agreed to lend. So, I dont agree that 
Barclays actions forced them into redeeming their mortgage. It was still considering the 
application and was entitled to decide if it was acceptable. And it made no commitment to 
the time frame for completion.
So, taking everything into account I dont think Barclays has done anything wrong when 
considering the application to port. And I dont think it has acted unreasonably or outside of 
the principles set by the regulator.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman