DRN-1536089
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W complained about a mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(MPPI) policy. The mortgage and MPPI have long since been closed and Bank of Scotland 
plc, trading as Halifax, is now responsible for answering the complaint. 
Ill therefore mainly refer to Halifax throughout this decision.
What happened
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Mrs W and Mr W its 
unlikely to be upheld. They disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided 
not to uphold this complaint. 
Id like to place on record that I certainly dont doubt Mrs W and Mr W genuinely and 
honestly feel the MPPI was mis-sold to them. Their main points of complaint seem to be 
that they feel the MPPI wasnt necessary and they dont ever remember agreeing to it.
Nevertheless, the sale of the MPPI looks like it was in 1996 so these events are from well 
over 20 years ago. Halifax hasnt got any of the sale documentation left but given the length 
of time involved this isnt unusual, or indeed unreasonable. But Halifax does have some 
computerised records Ive been able to see.
However, in situations where there is simply no hard evidence to refer to, we use our 
knowledge and experience of these sales to determine what is more likely to have 
happened. Ive seen quite a few Halifax MPPI sales from this part of the 1990s and my 
general experience of these is that for such a policy to be added, consumers were usually 
required to sign a specific MPPI application form to agree, or they were presented with a 
yes / no option on their mortgage application. 
We may have no signed paperwork left demonstrating this, but in my opinion the 
circumstances of the sale do appear to suggest the MPPI was knowingly added, although I 
accept Mrs W and Mr W may not remember this now. I say this because theres no doubt 
such a policy was sold so I think they would have therefore been sent a policy schedule (or 
similar) by the insurers. They would have also been sent and information about all the rules 
concerning claiming on the policy and they would have had to authorise the monthly 
premiums leaving their account. 
On this basis, I think its more likely therefore that agreement to have the policy was 
properly obtained.
Halifax concedes it would have probably recommended the MPPI as part of an advised 
sale. This means it had a duty to ensure it was suitable for their needs. Overall, I think it 
was. 
I say this because both appear to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any of 
the main exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. Ive seen nothing that suggests it 
wasnt affordable for them. Mrs W and Mr W implied they didnt need the cover because 
they also had sickness protection with their jobs. Ive thought very carefully about this, but 
Im afraid it doesnt make the MPPI unsuitable. The mortgage was secured against their 
home and so the consequences of them not being able to keep up payments could have 
been serious. In the event of a successful claim, up to £450 was payable for up to 12 
months. This would have been in addition to any other means they had in place at the time. 
So although I cant say why they decided to buy this policy, I dont think it being 
recommended to them was unreasonable. I think the policy was a suitable product for their 
consideration.
 
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Obviously I cant confirm now whether Halifax did everything right, but as Ive said, having 
discussed the cover I think Mrs W and Mr W would have been given the supporting 
literature explaining the policy rules. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs W and Mr W but there simply isnt enough for me to say the 
policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint. And I dont direct Bank of Scotland plc to do 
anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman