DRN-3896316
The complaint
Mr A complains about aspects of the service he received from The Royal London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) when administering his personal pension plan.
Mr A is represented by his wife in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reference, all 
actions and comments will be noted as Mr As. 
What happened
Mr A holds a personal pension plan with Royal London. He says there have been various 
issues to do with its handling of his policy. Those include incorrect information being given, 
or in some instances not being given responses to queries at all. 
In a response sent in January 2022, Royal London recognised that it hadnt always dealt 
with Mr As emails. It apologised for the delays he experienced and offered him £100 
compensation.
Mr A complained to Royal London in February 2022 that it hadnt told him a charge would 
apply if he took a payment holiday. In its response dated 10 March 2022 Royal London 
recognised and apologised that Mr A had been given the wrong information regarding 
premium holidays and their charges. It agreed to a premium holiday for 12 months free of 
charge, which it backdated to November 2021. Similarly, it recognised Mr A was given the 
wrong information about making the plan paid up (meaning he could stop making premiums 
and the plan could be treated as paid up with a one-off charge being applied). It offered a 
further £100 compensation for any upset or inconvenience that caused.
Mr A contacted Royal London about removing the early exit charge from his policy. Mr As 
policy was made up of two distinct parts: protected rights and non-protected rights which had 
different retirement dates. In a response dated 1 April 2022, Royal London explained that his 
policy had a selected retirement date of February 2023 (Mr As 55th Birthday) for the non-
protected rights part of the plan. But the retirement date for the protected rights part was 
February 2033 (Mr As 65th birthday). So, if Mr A decided to take benefits or move the plan 
before the relevant retirement date, an early penalty charge would apply. That said, Royal 
London did point out that new legislation introduced in March 2017 meant that once Mr A 
became eligible to access retirement benefits, charges are usually capped at 1% of the 
plans value. It said a 1% cap will therefore normally apply from age 55. However, it 
confirmed that no charges at all would apply if Mr A waited until the agreed retirement date 
before transferring to a new provider. Royal London acknowledged that Mr A wasnt happy 
about having to pay an early exit charge  particularly given the service issues hed 
experienced. But it said it couldnt remove it because it was built into the plan and was part 
of its terms and conditions. 
Mr A wasnt happy with Royal Londons response, so he brought his complaint to our 
Service. He said hed been misinformed by Royal London on several occasions. 
Consequently, he wanted to move his plan to another provider without incurring any 
penalties. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and agreed that there had been 
some issues regarding Royal Londons handling of things. She also noted that Royal London 
had paid £200 compensation, which she thought was fair. However, she said she wouldnt 
expect Royal London to waive any early exit charges given that theyre part of the terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
Mr A didnt accept the investigators assessment. In short, he said he felt strongly about 
being able to move the policy penalty free due to the service issues hed experienced. As no 
agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr As strength of feeling about what happened and why he might now think 
Royal London should have allowed him to transfer to a new provider without incurring an 
early exit penalty. But I dont agree that would be the fair and reasonable thing to do. I say 
that for a few different reasons.
First, as our investigator explained, the early exit fee appears to have been built into the 
policy terms and conditions at the outset, so is something that Mr A would have signed up to 
when he took out the plan. It seems likely therefore that Mr A would have known in the event 
that he opted to end the term much earlier than expected  as he tried to do here - hed incur 
a fee. 
Mr A isnt complaining about the early exit fee per se. What he seems to be saying is that he 
shouldnt have to pay it because of some service issues he faced. But the early exit fee isnt 
contingent on Royal London doing everything it should do when administering the policy. Its 
a completely separate fee. Royal London didnt go into great detail in its response about why 
an early exit charge is applied, save to say that its generally applied when a policyholder 
opts to take their benefits or transfer their plan ahead of the retirement date agreed. It seems 
likely therefore that its intended, in part at least, to recover charges or other administrative 
costs that might otherwise become due. 
In any event, Royal London isnt disputing that its standard of service wasnt always at the 
level expected. And whilst not ideal, as Ive indicated, Im not persuaded those service 
issues mean that Royal London should waive a completely separate fee. 
But thats not to say that Royal London shouldnt still recognise the impact of its poor service 
on Mr A. And Im satisfied its done that. I think the £200 compensation payment that Royal 
London made together with agreeing to a penalty free payment holiday for 12 months, is a 
fair and reasonable settlement of this complaint. So, Im not intending to direct it to do 
anything else.
That said, it seems from a recent update Ive seen that Royal London has indicated its now 
willing to allow Mr A to transfer his policy free of charge. Whilst that doesnt alter my findings 
about Mr As specific complaint and whether Royal London acted fairly and reasonably in 
relation to that complaint, it is something that Mr A probably wants to discuss with Royal 
London directly if he hasnt done so already.My final decision
Im satisfied that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited has made a fair and 
reasonable offer in settlement of this complaint when it said it would pay £200 compensation 
and agreed to a backdated payment holiday. So, Im not directing it to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman