DRN-2674825
The complaint
Mrs L complains that the vehicle she acquired through a hire purchase agreement financed 
by BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. She wants to reject 
the vehicle and end the agreement.
What happened
Mrs L tells us that in May 2018 she acquired this new vehicle. She reports that in June 2020 
the vehicle started to experience issues. She describes it kangarooing, that is jolting 
forward when the auto gearbox engaged between 20-40 mph. Mrs L explains that a BMW 
garage concluded that a new gearbox was required. And she says this was changed under 
warranty in November 2019. 
Following the repairs, she says the vehicle was returned with the same issues as well as 
various warning lights being illuminated. And that since then the problem has continued on 
an intermittent basis. She explains that BMW garages have failed to identify the issue or 
repair it. Mrs L says shes now supplied an independent report confirming that theres an 
ongoing intermittent fault with the auto gearbox. She says she lost confidence in the vehicle 
and wants to reject it.
BMWFS told us that there was insufficient information to show that the vehicle wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He felt that the vehicle 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. He explained that the gearbox had been 
replaced. And this had confirmed Mrs Ls view that the vehicle was behaving erratically. And 
shed provided evidence that the same issue was still occurring intermittently despite 
attempts at repairs. He felt the vehicle wasnt sufficiently durable.
BMWFS didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mrs L has experienced issues with this vehicle. No doubt when acquiring it as 
new she wasnt expecting such major issues with the gearbox to arise in such a relatively 
short time.
Mrs Ls hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. BMWFS supplied the vehicle so its responsible 
for complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). The CRA states that in order to conform to contract 
goods must be of satisfactory quality when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being 
what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. And this would include aspects 
of price, previous use (if any) and durability.
Mrs Ls vehicle was new when supplied. So it wouldve been expected to be in perfect 
condition. A reasonable person wouldnt expect a new vehicle to require a replacement 
transmission within two years and mileage of just under 25,000 miles. And unless there was 
some other reason, I think its a reasonable inference that this was probably due to a 
manufacturing fault. The fact that it was repaired under warranty suggests no fault was 
attributed to Mrs Ls driving style or any lack of maintenance.
Since the replacement gearbox was fitted, the vehicles been seen by BMW garages but 
apparently no further fault has been identified. This is despite Mrs L having had the vehicle 
recovered on number of occasions and reporting similar issues to those she previously 
experienced.
As BMW garages didnt find any issues, Mrs L had a report prepared by an independent 
garage business Ill call AT. And it reported that it had extensively road tested the vehicle. 
And it found that the auto gearbox was intermittently faulty.
It reported:
With regards to the investigative work we have recently carried out on your vehicle  we 
have found that there is an intermittent fault with regards to the automatic gear box.
On road tests carried out during January 2020 covering 95 miles, we have found the car 
jolted on both acceleration and deceleration. Your car had several road tests and on different 
types of roads - local and motorway and the car has shown this fault at different varying 
speeds.
This problem is intermittent but present which suggests any previous works carried out to the 
vehicle has not resolved the issue. I am concerned for you that when this vehicle falls out of 
warranty, you may well continue to incur excessive costs. Further investigatory works are 
required on this vehicle to explore the ongoing issues.
BMWFS challenged this and said it hadnt heard of AT. And that three of its own expert 
garages hadnt identified the vehicle as having faults.
Where information is unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive found no plausible reasons to doubt the findings expressed by AT. Theres a clear 
statement of fact as to what issues the vehicle displayed and under what conditions. These 
are consistent with the previous issues which led to the replacement gearbox. And the report 
is based on extensive road testing. Other than the charge for the inspection and diagnosis, 
AT doesnt stand to benefit from the further inspections and repairs it recommends. It 
suggested that Mrs L should seek further assistance from BMW.
Ive not been provided with any details of exactly what inspections and road tests BMW 
garages carried out. But Mrs L has provided dates on which she says the vehicle required 
towing after the gearbox was replaced. These were 22 July 2020; 10 August 2020; 4 
October 2020; 11 January 2021.On a balance of probabilities, I find that these garages being unable to find any faults is 
more likely to be due to them not carrying out sufficient testing to identify what is an 
intermittent fault. Rather than the fault not being there. Theres no obvious reason why AT 
would report such findings if they hadnt been based on what it observed.
Durability is an element that has to be considered in assessing satisfactory quality. And 
BMWFS has asserted that - as the faults were identified outside of six months following 
supply - it shouldnt bear any responsibility if theres no other information to show that the 
faults were present at the point of supply.
But the nature of durability is that faults dont always become immediately apparent. So its 
fair and reasonable to consider this aspect in the light of the expectations of a reasonable 
person. Thats what the CRA requires to be done.
Nowadays its likely that the gearbox on a well maintained vehicle will last the lifetime of that 
vehicle. And even where that didnt happen it wouldnt be expected that such a major 
component would fail so as to require a complete replacement within a couple of years.
The vehicle was repaired and yet the same issues have been reported within a short time. 
And the vehicles current mileage is reported by Mrs L as being only 32,338 miles. The only 
reasonable conclusion is that the intermittent fault wasnt correctly identified or hasnt been 
satisfactorily repaired. Either way, Mrs L shouldnt have to bear the ongoing risk.
Im upholding this complaint. And I find that Mrs L should be allowed to end the agreement 
and reject the vehicle.
Putting things right
 BMWFS should take the following action:
1. End the agreement and accept rejection of the vehicle, with nothing further for Mrs L 
to pay from date of termination; subject to item 4 below, payments due up to date of 
termination may be retained by BMWFS for fair use.
2. Arrange collection of the vehicle at no cost to Mrs L;
3. Refund the cash deposit to Mrs L;
4. Refund 10% of monthly repayments accruing after 30 June 2020 and up to the date 
of termination, to reflect impaired use and loss of enjoyment;
5. Refund the cost of the diagnosis report by AT and replacement vehicle cost 
(£184.80) upon proof of payment;
6. Pay £100 to Mrs L for distress and inconvenience.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should be added to items 3,4, and 5 above from 
date of payment to date of settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.I require BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited to take the action Ive stipulated in the 
preceding section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman