DRN-3589466
The complaint
Mr M complained that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) said he would have to find 
his own engineer to carry out appliance repairs. He also thought the relevant term should 
have been more prominently placed in policy documents. 
What happened
Mr M took out appliance cover with D&G for a fridge freezer in September 2021. Mr M 
submitted a claim to D&G in mid-October 2021 as the water dispenser on the fridge was 
dripping. D&G accepted the claim and repairs were carried out. However, the dispenser 
began dripping again and so Mr M contacted D&G at the end of November 2021.   
D&G accepted the claim but told Mr M that it wasnt able to find an engineer to carry out the 
work and asked him if he could arrange for a local engineer to visit. Mr M said he would 
prefer not to do that, as he thought he was paying for cover that meant D&G would make 
those arrangements. 
Mr M complained to D&G about having to arrange for the work to be carried out. He also 
complained that the relevant term about having to source his own engineer in some 
circumstances wasnt outlined in the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID). 
D&G didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said it provided him with an IPID when the plan was 
set up, and this outlined a summary of the policy. It said the IPID didnt include the full policy 
terms, which were sent alongside the IPID. D&G said it made every effort to ensure it 
provided a service in line with the regulations set by the Financial Conduct Authority.  
Mr M then complained to this Service and said he thought having to source his own engineer 
presented a significant risk to the level of service being provided under the policy and so the 
relevant term should have been highlighted within the IPID. He said the service he paid for 
should have included the appointment of an engineer by D&G. Mr M said he contacted 
several local engineers but couldnt find one willing to repair the particular type of fridge he 
owned. Mr M asked for D&G to arrange for the repairs to be carried out and for the IPID to 
be updated. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. As Mr M didnt agree with our Investigator, 
this came to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen the terms of Mr Ms policy and these say that if D&G authorise a repair, but cant 
find an engineer to carry out the work, then the policyholder can use their own engineer. It 
goes on to say that the policyholder would need to pay the engineer and then claim the 
money back from D&G. 
Ive listened to the telephone conversation between Mr M and the D&G adviser in November 
2021. I think its clear that the adviser checked to see whether D&G could arrange for an 
engineer to carry out the repairs. It was only when it couldnt find an engineer on its system 
that Mr M was asked if he could make arrangements for an engineer local to him to carry out 
the work. So Im satisfied D&G acted in line with the terms of the policy here. I understand 
that Mr M had a preference for D&G sorting this out, as he felt this was one of the reasons 
he paid for cover of this type, but the terms do allow D&G to act in the way it has. 
Mr M has also complained that this particular term should have been outlined in the IPID, 
which is a document that summarises what is and isnt covered by insurance policies.  
Having looked at the various policy documents here, Im satisfied Mr M wasnt placed at a 
disadvantage by this particular term not being included in the IPID. 
I say this because this particular term doesnt place any obligations on Mr M, or require him 
to take a course of action, that might affect whether a claim is accepted. So I dont think its 
an onerous enough term that it should fairly be listed in a document summarising the policy.
I can see that it was stated on the IPID that it was a summary of the policy, and that full 
terms, conditions, limitations and exclusions could be found in other policy documents. So 
D&G have let Mr M know that the IPID does not provide all of the information he needs to 
know about the policy terms. And the document detailing the full policy terms and conditions 
was short at around two and a half pages, so Im satisfied the disputed term is reasonably 
prominent in that document. What this means is that I wont be asking D&G to take any 
further action here. 
Mr M is understandably concerned that the fridge freezer has still not been repaired. Its my 
understanding that at this stage D&G are willing to make the arrangements to locate a 
suitable engineer. So I will leave it in Mr Ms hands to contact D&G in order for it to make the 
necessary arrangements. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman