DRN-2479206
The complaint
Mr. S, director of A, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC)wrongly 
advised about his business account, pressured him into paying an outstanding balance and 
wrongly used funds sent to him by mistake to pay off an outstanding balance. He would like 
£1,200 compensation and funds wrongly sent to him returned to the sender.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with our investigator for the following reasons: -
Mr. S has accepted our investigators view that, although HSBC wrongly advised him 
S about using his commercial card to pay off his business account, its waiving of 
charges of £248 that would have been due, and payment of £50 compensation, was 
appropriate redress and I agree.
Mr. S has also accepted our investigators view that HSBC correctly advised him 
about a payment Mr. S says was wrongly credited to his account. As the problem 
seemed to be with a third party bank our investigator advised Mr. S, he took this 
matter up with that bank. He found HSBCs actions to be reasonable and I agree
Mr. S outstanding issue is that he feels he was unfairly pressured into paying off the 
outstanding balance and charges that he says were incorrectly applied to his 
account.
I appreciate its difficult to evidence pressure, but I have no evidence to support this 
suggestion. As I understand it the charges were refunded to the account. And, as 
account was due to close in a months time, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
HSBC to seek repayment of an outstanding balance. Or to advise of the 
consequences if the outstanding balance wasnt paid off.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
