DRN-3696954
The complaint
Miss T complains through her representative that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 
118 118 Money irresponsibly provided her with a high cost loan which she was unable to 
afford to repay.
What happened
118 118 Money provided Miss T with a loan on 29 June 2018 of £3,000. This was repayable 
over 24 months at the rate of £239.37 a month. She paid off the loan on 20 September 2018. 
She complained to 118 118 Money that the loan was unaffordable to her.
118 118 Money said it carried out all necessary checks on Miss Ts eligibility for the loan. 
These included verifying her income and obtaining and reviewing a credit report and 
assessing her outgoings. As the loan was for debt consolidation, it assessed that it was 
affordable for Miss T.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our adjudicator said that 118 118 Money 
shouldve taken steps to build a more detailed picture of Miss Ms financial situation due to 
the number of short term loans she had taken out just prior to the loan and that she had 
been going over her credit card limit.
Miss T subsequently provided bank statements for the period around the loan application. 
Our adjudicator reviewed those and noted Miss M had paid off several short-term loans, and 
that she appeared to have sufficient disposable income left each month after paying her 
credit commitments including the new loan.
Miss T disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss T would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss T would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required 118 118 Money to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Ts ability to make the repayments under the agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so 118 118 Money had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that 118 118 Money had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Miss T undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for 118 118 Money to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss T. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
From a review of Miss Ts credit report obtained at the time of applying for the loan, I can 
see that she took out six short term loans in the three months prior to this, which were still 
outstanding. She also had two credit cards with balances of £1.999 (£2,000 limit) and £1,303 
(£1400 limit). Whilst her bank account wasnt overdrawn, I think that as this loan was for 
consolidation of debts, 118 118 Money should have carried out a more detailed assessment 
of Miss Ts circumstances.
This could have included a review of Miss Ts bank statements, which she has kindly 
supplied to us.  However I think they show what was already clear from the credit report, 
namely that Miss T had taken out several short terms loans in recent months, and that she 
had sufficient income to pay her outgoings. The statements also show that Miss T was 
receiving rent payments of around £450, but as these didnt appear to be regular I dont think 
they could be counted as part of her income.
The credit report showed that Miss T had credit commitments at the time of the application, 
totalling around £720 a month. I have considered Miss Ts bank statements and whilst its 
difficult to see precisely what loans she paid off following the receipt of the loan monies, I do 
note that she made a number of payments to lenders which amount to around a saving of 
£550 in loan payments. Miss T would then have had around £1,000 left from the loan. So 
whilst 118 118 Money should have ensured those payments were made from the loan, the 
fact is that they were repaid. When added to the loan payment Miss T would have been paying about 27% of her income (assessed at £1,850 a month) on credit commitments. 
I think that was a little high, but looking at the disposable income which should have been 
available to her which was around £560 a month, the loan should have been affordable.
I have noted that Miss T continued to take out loans after this loan was issued, but I have to 
consider what information was available to 118 118 Money at the time of the application. 
And in my view 118 118 Money made a fair lending decision and the loan was affordable to 
Miss T.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman