DRN-3789809
The complaint
Miss D and Miss M complain about how QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) dealt with a claim under their 
home insurance policy for theft of a bicycle. 
QIC use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to QIC includes 
these agents.
What happened
Miss D and Miss M had a home insurance policy with QIC, including optional cover for a 
bicycle. The bicycle was kept in a garage at their property, fitted with an electronic, remote-
controlled metal roller door. In June 2022, they woke to find the garage door was open and 
the bicycle had gone. They contacted the police to report the theft and obtained a crime 
reference number. They also contacted QIC to report the theft (and the crime reference 
number) and lodge a claim. Given the circumstances of the theft and the nature of the 
garage door, Miss D and Miss M thought an electronic device had been used to gain entry to 
the garage.
However, QIC declined the claim on the grounds that theft (under the contents section of the 
policy) was covered if there was forced and violent entry (or entry by deception). As there 
was no physical damage to the garage, QIC said this meant there wasnt evidence that 
forced and violent entry had occurred. So, the criteria for theft cover hadnt been met. 
Unhappy at the decline of their claim, Miss D and Miss M complained to QIC. But they didnt 
uphold the complaint. In their final response, they referred to policy wording in the contents 
section of the policy about claims for loss due to theft or attempted theft. This referred to 
cover for theft if it was caused by theft following forced and violent entry to the home (which 
would include the garage). QIC said there as there was no damage to the garage, then there 
was no forced or violent entry. Based on this, QIC confirmed their decline of the claim.
Miss D and Miss M then complained to this service. They disagreed with QIC about the 
decline of the claim on the grounds that the policy wording of commonly stolen meant 
stolen only when forced and violent entry was present. They said there was nothing to 
indicate this when they took out the policy, as they thought the additional bicycle cover would 
cover a bicycle being stolen or damaged. The bicycle was kept in a secure, locked and 
alarmed garage. QICs decline meant they had to pay for a replacement bicycle, which was 
their main mode of transport (so impacted significantly on them). And having made a claim 
(albeit declined) it would need to be declared when applying for insurance in the future, so 
likely to affect their premiums. They wanted QIC to accept their claim (and for QIC to amend 
their policy to be clearer about the cover being offered).
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She noted Miss D and Miss Ms view the garage door 
had been opened using an electronic device, which meant there wouldnt have been 
evidence of force or violence being used to gain entry. She thought the term forced entry 
implied entry against the wishes of the owner, and that damage wouldnt necessarily have to 
be caused. Based on this, she didnt think QIC had acted fairly in declining the claim, so 
should reconsider their decision (and accept the claim). She also thought QIC should pay 
Miss D and Miss M £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
QIC disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They said the theft section policy wording of forced and violent entry meant there 
would have to be signs of entry in the form of physical signs of damage (which wasnt the 
case in the theft of Miss D and Miss Ms bicycle). They also didnt think there was evidence 
to show entry was through a device. Nor that the circumstances of the theft would fall under 
the definition of deception (being used to gain entry).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether QIC has acted fairly towards Miss D and Miss M.
The main element of Miss D and Miss Ms complaint is that QIC unfairly declined their claim 
for the theft of their bicycle, on the grounds the theft hadnt involved forced and violent entry 
(as there was no physical damage to the garage). Miss D and Miss M say there was nothing 
to indicate this when they took out the policy, as they thought additional bicycle cover would 
cover a bicycle being stolen. The bicycle was kept in a secure, locked and alarmed garage.
Having considered both views carefully, together with the supporting evidence and 
information, Ive concluded QIC havent acted fairly in declining the claim, on the grounds 
theyve provided. Ill set out why Ive come to this view. 
Firstly, as a general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or loss under 
a policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the damage or 
loss. In this case, given the description of what happened, it seems clear the bicycle was 
stolen. The theft was reported to the police and a crime reference provided. And Ive seen 
nothing to suggest (or dispute) the bicycle wasnt stolen.  
However, QICs view is that the policy terms and conditions only cover theft where there is 
forced and violent entry. In their final response (and in disagreeing with our investigators 
view) QIC refer to the following policy terms and conditions (under the contents section) 
regarding theft:
5. Theft or attempted theft
We will cover loss or damage to your contents while they are in your home if:
a. this was caused by theft or attempted theft following forced and violent entry to 
your home; or
b. deception has been used to gain entry to your home.
Miss D and Miss M say there was nothing to indicate this (the forced and violent entry 
requirement) when they took out the policy. And they thought the additional bicycle cover 
would cover a bicycle being stolen or damaged. The bicycle was kept in a secure, locked 
and alarmed garage. Given this, Ive looked at the section of the policy that sets out the 
additional bicycle cover they opted for when they took out the policy.
Under the Optional cover for your contents section of the policy, the cover for bicycles is 
set out under Option B  pedal cycles. The terms and conditions under this option state that 
loss or damage is under several headings (including 5. Theft or attempted theft as set out 
above) and including when the bicycle is at the policyholders property1. The terms and 
conditions under Option B  pedal cycles also state:
1 Property includes the home, which includes outbuildings such as garages.We dont cover
o. theft unless, at the time of the theft, the pedal cycle is:
i. securely locked to a solid object which cannot be moved, using a 
specifically designed bicycle lock; or
ii. in a locked building.
Given the wording of sub-section ii, I can understand why Miss D and Mis M thought they 
were covered for theft, as the bicycle was kept in a locked garage. However, given the 
optional bicycle cover is described as optional cover for your contents section then I think 
this makes it clear the terms and conditions of the contents section will also apply. This 
would include 5. Theft or attempted theft as set out above. 
Returning to the wording of that specific question, the term forced and violent entry is not 
defined or described anywhere in the policy document. So, it becomes a question of what a 
reasonable interpretation of the term would be. QIC say it means there must be physical 
damage as evidence forced and violent entry has occurred. However, I dont agree. While 
forced and violent entry can include physical damage or evidence, I dont think its 
reasonable to say that the absence of such must mean there wasnt forced and violent 
entry. 
The garage was closed, locked and alarmed. Which indicates Miss D and Miss M took 
sensible precautions to secure the garage and the bicycle  it was clearly kept (as the policy 
requires) in a locked building.. All these precautions were overcome, so there would have 
been some means to overcome them (Miss D and Miss M maintain some form of electrical 
device was used). The nature of what Miss D and Miss M have described about how they 
think entry was gained to the garage is such that there wouldnt be physical damage or 
evidence that entry has been gained. This seems analogous to the relay technique often 
used in the theft of vehicles. Which similarly doesnt result in physical damage to the vehicle. 
So, I dont think its reasonable to say the absence of physical damage means there wasnt 
forced entry. 
Given the absence of any definition of forced and violent entry in the policy, this also 
indicates ambiguity in the wording of the policy. Given this, Ive had regard to the general 
principle that where theres ambiguity in a contract (which is what an insurance policy is) 
then the contract should be interpreted in favour of the party that didnt draft it (which would 
be Miss D and Miss M).
While Ive reached these conclusions, Ive also considered the other points made by QIC 
when disagreeing with our investigators view. 
First, they dont think theres evidence to show entry was gained through a device. However, 
this wasnt the grounds on which they declined the claim. And given the description of what 
happened (Miss D and Miss M waking to find the garage door open and the bicycle missing) 
together with their view that an electronic device was used to open the garage (together with 
the similarity to the known relay technique used in vehicle thefts) then I think its a plausible 
explanation for how entry was gained. Ive also noted what Miss D and Miss M have said 
when bringing their complaint to this service about their publicising the theft on social media 
to see if anyone could help with recovery of the bike. Also, Ive seen no indication from the 
police they doubt what Miss D and Miss M told them about the circumstances of the theft (or 
that there had been a theft).
On the point that the circumstances of the theft wouldnt fall under the definition of deception, 
I accept the term is generally understood to involve a person gaining entry to a property 
through deception of the occupants. For example, impersonating a utility firm representative or other figure that might have legitimate cause to enter a property. Thereby enabling theft to 
take place. However, this doesnt change my conclusion that QIC have unfairly declined the 
claim for the reasons Ive set out above.
Having reached this conclusion, Ive gone on to consider what I think QIC should do to put 
things right. As I think theyve unfairly declined the claim, they should assess the claim in 
accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy (including, as appropriate, 
any policy excess). 
Ive also considered the issue of compensation. Given what Miss D and Miss M have told us 
about the impact on them, and considering all the circumstances of the case, I think QIC 
should pay £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Miss D and Miss Ms 
complaint. I require QIC Europe Limited to:
assess the claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy 
(including, as appropriate, any policy excess). 
pay £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them 
Miss D and Miss M accept my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman