DRN-3506404
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy taken alongside a further advance on their mortgage in
2008. They have also complained about what Lloyds have done with the redress that was
due to them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had two PPI policies on their mortgage. The first one was taken in 2003 when
the mortgage initially started. The second was taken in 2008 along with a further advance.
Mr and Mrs W complained to Lloyds that the policies had been mis-sold to them. In
December 2019 Lloyds responded to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint agreeing that it should be
upheld but that no redress was due on either policy because of a successful unemployment
claim Mr W made in 2003.
In this final decision I am only considering the PPI policy sold in 2008. The other (the
sale made in 2003) has previously been looked at separately by this service.
Our adjudicator who looked at the complaint didnt think what Lloyds had done was right.
They thought it shouldnt have deducted a successful claim amount from the redress that
would have been due to Mr and Mrs W on the 2008 policy. The claim Mr W had made was
against the first policy taken in 2003.
As Lloyds disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, the complaint was passed to me. I issued 
my provisional decision explaining that I intended on reaching a different conclusion than the 
adjudicator. But I asked the parties to give me anything further they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision. Heres what I said:
As Lloyds has already agreed to pay redress for the policy, I wont be looking at how it was
sold to Mr and Mrs W. I will only be considering whether what Lloyds has done with the
redress was fair.
In its final response letter to Mr and Mrs W, Lloyds said the redress that was due for the
2003 policy totalled £686.60 but after deduction of a successful claim of £707.56 Lloyds said
nothing was due to Mr and Mrs W. And for the 2008 policy the redress payable would have
been £1,656.80 but after the successful claim deduction amount of £2,000, again nothing
was payable.
Lloyds has given us the details of Mr Ws successful claim for unemployment. The claim was
made in October 2003 through to January 2005. So, initially it seemed the successful claim
was made before the second policy was set up.
And in Lloyds final response letter to Mr and Mrs W about the complaint it laid out two
separate sections for the redress purposes  one for the 2003 policy and the other for the
2008 policy. It referred to the earlier policy as being in joint names with an end date of
September 2008 and the later policy being in the sole name of Mr W, so it wasnt clear
whether the policies were two separate contracts or one.
After contacting Lloyds, it has now confirmed that there was only one contract, the latter
policy just being a sub account of the earlier one when it was taken in 2008 with a further
advance on the mortgage, which isnt unusual. It also confirmed that the policies were both
set up for the sole benefit of Mr W and the end date for both was the same in 2019. So, Im
satisfied there was only one contract in place.
In this case, Lloyds has agreed the PPI was mis-sold but Mr and Mrs W got back more from
the successful claim Mr W made, than theyd ever paid in premiums. Put another way,
Mr and Mrs W arent out of pocket in this regard. So, if Lloyds paid the £1,656.80 now,
Mr and Mrs W would be in financial profit as regards the PPI.
Where we decide or a business agrees that a complaint about the sale of PPI should be
upheld, the redress wed award would be intended to put the consumer as far as possible in
the financial positional theyd be in if they hadnt bought the policy. And where a customer
claimed on the policy, wed say it was reasonable for the business to deduct the value of the
claim  as they wouldnt have been able to claim if they hadnt bought the PPI policy to begin
with.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed with my current opinion of their complaint,
but I hope I have been able to explain how I have reached that provisional decision.
In conclusion, in the individual circumstances of this complaint I dont think its unreasonable
for Lloyds to not make a payment of redress to Mr and Mrs W. The amount paid out for the
unemployment claim exceeds the amount that Mr and Mrs W paid in premiums for the
policy.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me anything more to consider, I see no reason to alter my 
provisional decision and confirm those findings. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that it is fair for Lloyds Bank PL:C to not pay any 
redress payment to Mr and Mrs W. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman