DRN-4325240
The complaint
Mr M complains that PrePay Technologies Limited (PrePay) have failed to refund £5,000 he 
lost to a vehicle purchase scam. Hes also unhappy with the time it took PrePay to act once 
it knew about the scam. 
Mr M is being supported by a representative but for ease, Ill refer to Mr M throughout this 
decision. 
What happened
Having seen an advert for a vehicle on an online marketplace (E), Mr M made a payment to 
a third party for £5,000 on 24 January 2023. On 26 January 2023 Mr M contacted PrePay 
and asked the following:
I am writing to you today as I have purchased a van from someone through [E] but 
not paid for through [E] as they called me. It could be legitimate I am going to the 
supposed address tomorrow!
But the offer seems too good to be true, Im writing to you to see if I get there 
tomorrow at 11:59am and its a scam what can you do to help me.
On 27 January 2023 Mr M contacted PrePay to say hed been the victim of scam. On 
8 February 2023 PrePay contacted the receiving bank to see if any funds could be 
recovered. It replied on 8 March 2023 and PrePay contacted Mr M to say it had recovered 
85 pence from the receiving bank. 
Mr M complained to PrePay but it didnt uphold his complaint. It said Mr M had authorised 
the payment and ignored fraud warnings. Mr M referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. In short, she thought 
PrePay shouldve intervened in the £5,000 payment, but she didnt think that intervention 
wouldve prevented Mr Ms loss. She was also satisfied PrePay had taken reasonable steps 
to try and recover the lost funds. 
PrePay accepted our Investigators findings. Mr M didnt agree, and so the case had been 
passed to me to decide. 
Mr M said PrePay did nothing to protect him other than send written warnings that are sent 
with all transactions. And he said if he had a more tailored warning from PrePay he wouldve 
listened to its advice and not made the payment. Mr M said the situation he was in had all 
the hallmarks of scam, and if PrePay had intervened, the scam wouldve been uncovered. 
Mr M also wanted to know why it had taken PrePay so long to act once he told it hed been 
scammed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
But first, Id like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less
detail than the parties involved. I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this. If
there is a submission Ive not addressed; it isnt because I have ignored the point. It is
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this
complaint  that being whether PrePay has acted reasonably in not refunding the £5,000 to 
Mr M.
I should also add that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I 
must make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more 
likely than not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
It isnt in dispute that Mr M authorised the disputed payment he made to a third party under 
the guise of buying a vehicle. The payment was requested by him using his legitimate 
security credentials provided by PrePay, and the starting position is that PrePay ought to 
follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made 
as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether PrePay shouldve done more to prevent Mr M from falling 
victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a 
closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, if it was 
particularly out of character.
PrePay provided generic written warnings to Mr M before he made the £5,000 payment. But 
it didnt flag the payment as suspicious and contact him directly to get further information 
about the nature of the payment before processing it. I accept that its not unusual for 
customers to make a one-off large payment to a new payee during normal account activity. 
But looking at Mr Ms account history over the previous months, I agree with our Investigator 
that, on balance, a payment of £5,000, which was significantly higher than any previous 
payment Mr M had made from his PrePay account shouldve given PrePay a reason to 
intervene before it processed the payment. 
So, the issue for me to consider is what that further intervention from PrePay shouldve 
looked like and whether it wouldve likely resonated with Mr M enough to have prevented his 
loss. I also need to decide if PrePay took reasonable steps to try and recover the lost funds 
once it knew about the scam.
When Mr M made the £5,000 transaction several written warnings were generated. The first 
warning said:
Could someone be trying to scam you? If youre not confident, dont continue this 
payment.
This generated the following warning:
What are you making this payment for?This then generated the following option:
Shopping in person or online  buying something from a company or person you 
dont know.
Selecting this option provided the following warning:
Are you sure about who youre buying from? If youve never bought from the 
company or person before, do some research first. 
Look at all the reviews of the seller of the product
Pay using your card or a secure platform
If youre using something like [E], make sure you pay within the platform to stay 
protected
Meeting in person? Dont pay until youve seen the item.
Mr M has suggested these warnings were generic and not tailored to the situation he was in. 
But I dont agree with Mr M here, and I think the warnings were clearly intended to draw out 
the hallmarks of a purchase scam. PrePay has also provided evidence that Mr M was 
presented with these warnings and selected the option to continue with the payment. And 
so, I must conclude that Mr M read and understood the tailored warnings he was presented 
with. 
With that in mind, Ive given careful thought to what difference further intervention from 
PrePay wouldve made. Whilst I dont know for sure what questions PrePay wouldve asked 
if it had intervened in the payment, Id expect it, at the very least, to have questioned Mr M 
about the payment method and whether he had seen the vehicle. And Ive no reason to 
doubt that Mr M wouldve given honest answers to PrePay, and that in response it wouldve 
likely warned Mr M of the likelihood of this being a scam. 
But the difficulty I have is that I cant say for sure that Mr M wouldve heeded those warnings. 
I say that because the risks of paying outside the protection of E and not seeing the item 
youre paying for were clearly outlined in the written warnings Mr M read and understood 
before making the payment. Furthermore, as Ive outlined above, two days after making the 
payment Mr M contacted PrePay for advice on what to do if the vehicle purchase did turn out 
to be a scam. 
So, I think it likely the written warnings  which I think were tailored to the exact situation 
Mr M was in - mustve resonated with Mr M enough to have cast some doubt on the 
legitimacy of the purchase. And yet he proceeded with the transaction in the hope that when 
he went to collect the vehicle all would be well  which unfortunately turned out not to be the 
case. 
Im also mindful that Mr M told PrePay after he reported the scam that: 
So I saw a vehicle for sale on [E]  the van checked out online and the scammer on 
the phone was extremely convincing pretending to be an older gentleman and offered 
to stop the sale if I paid over the phone and was convinced he was genuine! I then 
transferred the money and the scammer continued to stay in contact with me until I 
arrived in Oxford 3 hrs away where I was supposed to collect the van.
So, despite there being hallmarks of this being a scam - Mr M was clearly of the belief the 
sale was genuine up until the point he went to collect the vehicle. Therefore, I dont think, on balance, it is likely that any reasonable further warning from 
PrePay at the time the £5,000 transaction was made wouldve prevented Mr Ms loss. 
Ive also considered the action PrePay took once Mr M alerted it to the scam on 27 January 
2023. I can see that PrePay contacted the receiving bank on 8 February 2023 and had 
confirmation on 8 March 2023 that only 85 pence remained. But even if PrePay had 
contacted the receiving bank on 27 January 2023, I can see that all the funds had, by that 
time, been removed by the scammer. And so, I cant say that any delay on the part of 
PrePay in contacting the receiving bank has contributed to Mr Ms loss. 
I appreciate this outcome will likely come as a disappointment to Mr M, and Im sorry to hear 
he has been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it 
would be fair and reasonable to hold PrePay responsible for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman