DRN-3336418
The complaint
Mr R complained that Legal and General Society Limited (L&G) declined his terminal illness 
benefit claim and avoided his policy. 
What happened
Mr R took out a life assurance policy, underwritten by L&G, on 4 October 2014. The sum 
assured was £200,000, with a term of 38 years. The policy was taken out online by Mr R, 
using a price comparison website. Mr R paid a monthly premium of £22.82. 
Mr R was, unfortunately, diagnosed with a form of bile duct cancer in 2017. He underwent 
treatment, but in December 2020 Mr R was told that the cancer had spread, and he had a 
life expectancy of around 10-12 months. So Mr R contacted L&G and submitted a terminal 
illness benefit claim in January 2021. 
Mr R complained to L&G about the delays in processing his claim in April 2021 and it 
responded in May 2021. L&G acknowledged the service it provided had fallen short of its 
usual standard. It said it provided incorrect information on two occasions, sent a text 
message suggesting information was outstanding and said there were increased turnaround 
times due to the volume of claims received. It offered Mr R £350 for the trouble and upset 
caused. In relation to the claim, L&G said it couldnt conclude the claim until Mr Rs GP 
responded to it and provided supporting information about Mr Rs smoking history. 
L&G then turned down Mr Rs claim in July 2021. It also cancelled his policy from when it 
started and refunded premiums. L&G said when Mr R applied for the policy in 2014, he 
answered no when asked whether he had smoked any cigarettes, cigars, a pipe or used 
nicotine replacements during the last 12 months. But L&G said Mr R should have answered 
yes, as he went to see his GP on 28 May 2014 and was recorded as smoking 15 cigarettes 
a day. It said Mr R was also prescribed Champix, a drug to help stop smoking. L&G also 
said that when Mr R saw his Oncologist on 29 August 2017, he reported being an ex-smoker 
of three years, which meant he was still smoking in 2014.
L&G said Mr R told it he stopped smoking in 2013, and not 2014, as indicated in the medical 
records, and so it considered this. However, it said its clear from the medical records that 
Mr R was smoking only a few months before his application. And his testimony to his 
Oncologist in August 2017 placed him as a smoker up until 2014. L&G said if it had known 
Mr R smoked in the previous 12 months it would have charged a much higher premium than 
it actually did. It said the facts show Mr R must have known the answer he gave was wrong 
and, in the circumstances, it said recognised practice was to cancel a policy from when it 
started and refund all the premiums that have been paid, which was what it did. 
Mr R was unhappy with L&Gs decision and complained to it. L&G responded in 
August 2021 and reiterated what it said when it declined the claim. It offered Mr R an 
additional £450 compensation for not managing expectations correctly, for incorrectly stating 
it requested a bowel/stomach cancer medical report, and for the delay in issuing the claims 
decision letter. 
Mr R complained to this service. He asked for L&G to settle the claim and to consider the 
distress, anxiety and depression that this had caused. Mr R told us that although the GP 
records say he was still smoking 15 cigarettes a day in May 2014, this was actually not the 
case. He said he was not smoking at that point, having given up in 2013.
Mr R said he went to his GP when he had a chest infection in May 2014. He said he was 
also experiencing cigarette cravings and wanted to see if he could be prescribed Champix to 
help with these. Mr R said he assumed at the time that he needed to say he was currently 
smoking in order to get the prescription. So, he described the number of cigarettes he had 
smoked when previously smoking, which was 15 a day. Mr R also said he didnt think his 
smoking history should have been requested from his GP, given the type of cancer hes 
been diagnosed with. He was also unhappy with the lack of, and quality of, communication 
from L&G. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint. He thought it wasnt fair to provide an 
outcome on a misrepresentation without having the full medical history available. So, he 
asked L&G to request Mr Rs medical records in relation to smoking from 2013 and to 
reassess the claim once these had been received. But L&G declined to do this and said it 
couldnt see what information Mr Rs GP could provide that would alter its assessment of his 
claim. 
L&G asked for this complaint to be passed to an ombudsman, so this has come to me for a 
decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 31 January 2022 and said that I intended to come to a 
different conclusion to that of our investigator, in that I didnt think it was necessary for L&G 
to request additional medical records for Mr R. I looked at whether Mr R had made a 
misrepresentation and decided that L&G acted fairly when it said he had, and when it 
decided to avoid the policy, decline the claim and refund the premiums. I also said the £800 
compensation already offered by L&G for the distress and inconvenience Mr R experienced 
as a result of delays and communication problems was fair. I gave both parties the 
opportunity to respond with any further comments or evidence. 
Mr R responded and did not agree with the outcome. He said he intended to look into 
whether it can be proved that the medical records were incorrectly recorded and whether 
medical tests might show that smoking cessation happened as he had described. He said 
this might then lead to further legal action. 
L&G also responded and had nothing further to add. 
This means I am now able to issue a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
In reviewing this case Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding approach to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading), provided the insurer has asked a clear question. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions accurately, it sets out the remedies available to the insurer.
I know Mr R was concerned about why L&G asked for information about smoking when it 
first started to assess his claim. He thought there was no direct link between smoking and 
the type of cancer hes been diagnosed with, and so felt this information shouldnt have been 
requested by it. And I can see that L&G asked for this information because it thought 
smoking was a risk factor. 
Its certainly the case that I would expect insurers to request only relevant medical 
information when assessing a claim. However, I dont intend to look at whether L&G should 
or shouldnt have asked Mr Rs GP for smoking information when it did. 
This is because I can see from L&Gs claim notes that in March 2021 it reviewed a letter 
dated 29 August 2017 from Mr Rs Oncologist. This letter indicated that Mr R had been a 
smoker three years prior to the meeting with the Oncologist. So, at that stage, L&G became 
aware of the possibility that Mr R was still a smoker in 2014. I think its highly likely that if it 
hadnt already requested the smoking information from his GP, then it would have fairly done 
so at that point. So, it was always going to be the case that L&G would have had information 
about Mr Rs smoking history. 
Turning to the question of whether or not Mr R made a misrepresentation when he took out 
the policy, I can see that when he applied for the policy on 4 October 2014, Mr R was asked 
whether he had smoked or used nicotine replacement products in the preceding 12 months. 
And Mr R said he hadnt. Ive first of all considered whether this question was clear and 
unambiguous, as Mr R cant be expected to provide information that he wasnt asked for. 
And Im satisfied that the question was phrased clearly enough that a reasonable consumer 
would have known what information was being requested. 
I can see that Mr Rs medical records show that he had an appointment with his GP on 
28 May 2014. The subsequent entry in Mr Rs medical records indicates Mr R had a 
productive cough for a short time, was diagnosed with a respiratory infection and was 
prescribed antibiotics. His GP spoke to him about the effects of 19 years of smoking and 
noted Mr R smoked 15 cigarettes a day. L&G said this shows Mr R was still smoking four 
months prior to taking out the policy, and so should have answered yes when asked if he 
had smoked in the preceding 12 months. 
However, Mr R said the question about smoking wasnt answered incorrectly by him. He said 
he gave up smoking in August 2013. He said that when he attended the appointment with 
his GP in May 2014, he was still experiencing cravings and wanted to get a Champix 
prescription to help with this. And he assumed he needed to tell his GP he was still smoking 
in order to get the prescription. So, Mr R is saying that while the medical records accurately 
reflect what he told his GP in 2014, he in fact told his GP that he was still smoking when this 
wasnt the case. And so, he thinks L&G shouldnt rely on the medical records to inform it 
about the date he stopped smoking. 
The difficulty here is that its usually the case that insurers are allowed to rely on information 
contained in medical records when assessing claims or looking at whether 
misrepresentations have occurred. Im satisfied its fair for insurers to be allowed to do this, 
because medical records provide an impartial, contemporary account of individuals medical 
history. In this particular situation, I think the entry in the medical records is clear and theres 
no room for misunderstanding just how much Mr R was recorded as smoking on a daily 
basis in May 2014. I appreciate what Mr R has said about giving up smoking in 2013, but his testimony alone is 
not enough to persuade me that L&G shouldnt be allowed to rely on the relevant GP 
records. And I can also see that Mr Rs oncologist wrote a letter in August 2017, which said 
Mr R had given up smoking three years before. And while this doesnt provide an exact date 
when Mr R stopped smoking, it does suggest he was still smoking in 2014. In order to 
answer no to the relevant question, Mr R would have to have stopped smoking in early 
October 2013. So, Im satisfied that L&G acted fairly when it attached greater weight to the 
medical records, both from Mr Rs GP in 2014 and his oncologist in 2017, when assessing 
whether Mr R had provided accurate information about his smoking history. 
Given that the medical records show that Mr R was smoking 15 cigarettes a day in 
May 2014, and given what the letter from the oncologist says, Im satisfied that it was fair for 
L&G to say Mr R made a misrepresentation when he told it he hadnt smoked for 12 months 
prior to taking out the policy in October 2014. 
Mr R was offered a policy by L&G on non-smoker rates, which means the policy premiums 
were cheaper than they would have been for a smoker. L&G has provided underwriting 
information that shows Mr R would have been charged a significantly higher premium if L&G 
had known his smoking history. What this means is that L&G are allowed, under CIDRA, to 
take particular steps to either amend or void the policy. And which of these options are 
available to it depends on whether the misrepresentation is classified as careless or 
deliberate / reckless. 
Before I look at how the misrepresentation has been classified, I can see that when L&G first 
became aware of the misrepresentation, it looked at whether it could amend the policy from 
non-smoker to smoker rates. This is something it can do, if the policyholder has not smoked 
within six months of the policy start date. But as the medical records show that Mr R was still 
smoking four months prior to taking out the policy, L&G said it wasnt able to amend the 
policy in this way.  
L&G consider this to be a deliberate / reckless misrepresentation. And this means that it can 
avoid the policy, decline the claim and retain any premiums paid. So, Ive looked at whether 
it was fair for L&G to deal with the misrepresentation in this way, and, having done so, Im 
satisfied it was. 
I say this because the question asked about smoking is a lifestyle question, and no one is 
better placed to know the answer to a lifestyle question than the person the question is 
aimed at. So, when the answer provided is incorrect, then its highly likely the person 
answering the question knows its incorrect. 
In Mr Rs case, I appreciate what he has said about giving up smoking in 2013 and not 2014. 
Its clear from all the information provided that Mr R gave up smoking at some point, it 
seems highly likely he was no longer smoking when he applied for the policy, and he has 
remained a non-smoker. But in order for me to be able to take his explanation about when 
he stopped smoking into account, it would have to be supported by other evidence. And it 
isnt. As Ive already said, the medical records provide us with a different account of Mr Rs 
smoking history that Im satisfied L&G can rely on. 
I can see from what Mr R has said that he was aware applying for a policy as a non-smoker 
would mean a reduced premium. So taking into consideration that Mr R answered a lifestyle 
question incorrectly and knew that this information would be relevant to L&G, in that it would 
affect the premiums, Im satisfied that L&G acted fairly when it classified the 
misrepresentation as deliberate / reckless. This means its allowed to avoid the policy and 
decline the claim. I can see that its opted to refund the premiums, which I think is fair in the 
circumstances. I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr R and his family and the really very difficult situation 
they find themselves in. I understand that my decision will be a disappointment to them. But I 
could only uphold this complaint if I thought L&G had acted unfairly or outside the terms of 
the policy and I dont think thats the case.   
Mr R also complained about delays with L&G processing the claim and the difficulties he had 
communicating with it. L&G has acknowledged that the service it provided was not up to its 
usual standard and it has already offered Mr R a total of £800 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. 
I can see that it certainly took quite some time for L&G to assess the claim, but some of 
these delays were unavoidable. For instance, it was necessary for L&G to go back to Mr Rs 
GP in order to get additional medical information and clarification about his smoking history. 
The failures that L&G has already acknowledged are about not managing expectations, 
incorrectly telling Mr R it requested a bowel/stomach cancer medical report, a delay in 
issuing the claim decline letter, providing incorrect information and increased turnaround 
times. While I understand that it would have been very stressful for Mr R when things went 
wrong with the claim, Im satisfied with the amount already offered by L&G to compensate 
for any distress or inconvenience caused.  
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman