DRN-2972810
The complaint
Mrs I (through a representative) has complained that Morses Club PLC didnt carry out 
proper affordability checks, had Morses done so it wouldve seen she was in debt spiral and 
not lent to her. 
What happened
Mrs I took two home credit loan from Morses between January and August 2017. A 
summary of her borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Morses can be 
found below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)
1 £200.00 16/01/2017 10/08/2017 33
2 £200.00 10/08/2017 16/08/2019 33
It looks like Mrs I had some problems repaying the final loan, and the repayment date for this 
seems to be the date the loan was passed to a third-party collection agency. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mrs Is complaint. He didnt uphold her complaint because 
in his view, Morses had carried out proportionate checks and these checks showed it that 
Mrs I would likely to be able to afford her loan repayments. 
Morses appear to have agreed with our adjudicators opinion. 
Mrs I disagreed and in summary she said, that she was in a bad way when the loans were 
lent. She says her son has health problems and they preyed on her because she is 
vulnerable. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Mrs I could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs I. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Morses was required to establish 
whether Mrs I could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mrs Is complaint.
When these loans were approved, Morses has told us that it made enquires with Mrs I about 
her income and expenditure. Based on what Mrs I declared, Morses believed she had 
income of £217 per week for loan 1 and £290 a week for loan 2. She also had declared 
outgoings of £145 per week for loan 1 and £118 for loan 2. This left disposable income of 
between £72 and £172 per week. So, the loans wouldve looked afforded to Morses, based 
solely on this information. 
Overall, taking account that this was early on in Mrs Is lending relationship with Morses, I 
think Morses carried out proportionate checks which showed Mrs I was likely to be able to 
afford the repayments she was committing to making.
I also havent seen any further information that shows its likely Morses was made aware of 
any financial problems Mrs I mightve been having. Or anything else that wouldve prompted 
it to investigate her circumstances further. So, I still think it was reasonable for Morses to rely 
on the information it obtained and approve these loans. 
Im sorry to hear about both Mrs Is health problems and that of her sons. But in this case, 
based on the limited information I have been given, I dont think it alters my view on the 
outcome. As Ive explained above, the checks Morses carried out were in my view 
proportionate and there is no indication that Morses was aware of Mrs Is health problem. 
But even if Morses was aware, I dont think that wouldve altered its decision to lend, because based on what Mrs I declared she could afford the loan repayments.  I also know 
she feels that Morses preyed on her, but Ive not seen anything to suggest this was the case. 
So, Im not upholding Mrs Is complaint about her lending. I appreciate Mrs I will be 
disappointed by the outcome of this complaint, but I hope my explanation has been useful in 
explaining why Ive reached the outcome that I have.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mrs Is complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman