DRN-1843492
 
The complaint
Ms O has complained that her motor insurance provider Ageas Insurance Limited has 
unfairly reduced her no claims discount (NCD).
What happened
When Ms O insured her car with Ageas she had 13 years NCD and following a claim on her 
policy Ageas reduced Ms Os NCD to 2 years.
Ms O accepts she didnt choose to protect her NCD but says that had she been aware of the 
extent her NCD would be affected she would have either protected the NCD or decided to 
insure her car with another provider.
Our Investigator considered Ms Os complaint and thought Ageas should have made its 
NCD process clearer to Ms O, and that is had prejudiced her position by not doing so. 
Our Investigator said Ageas should provide Ms O with a letter confirming she had 13 
years NCD when she took out the policy, and what the step back process was following 
a claim. Ms O could then provide this information to her new insurer. Our Investigator also 
said Ageas should pay Ms O £50 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused her.
Ms O disagreed with the Investigator's view, so this complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering Ms Os complaint, Ive thought about whether Ageas explained its NCD 
step back process to Ms O, and if it didnt, whether Ms O would have acted differently had 
Ageas provided more information from the outset.
Ms O accepts she didnt choose to protect her NCD, but says she wasnt made aware of the 
impact this would have following a claim on her policy.
The documents provided to Ms O when she took the policy explain the following:
If a claim is made during the period of insurance, at your next renewal the discount will be 
reduced or removed in line with your Insurers current scale
I think its clear from this statement that Ms Os NCD would be affected negatively in some 
way, although I cant see that the actual scale was ever explained to Ms O. So she couldnt 
have known the extent that the NCD would be affected.
With this in mind I need to consider whether Ms O would have acted differently had she been given more information. 
It isnt uncommon for insurers to step back the NCD entitlement of a policy holder following a 
claim, and even if the customer has many years NCD this is commonly stepped back from a 
starting place of 5 years. This is because many insurers only offer discounts against 5 years 
NCD regardless of how many years NCD the customer has.
Ageas has shown, and Ms O has accepted, that she didnt protect her NCD with her 
previous insurer. She has explained that the step back process wasnt explained to her then 
either. But Ageas has also shown that Ms Os previous insurers NCD process was similar to 
its own and was explained to Ms O.
So, considering all the information I have available I think its unlikely Ms O would have 
protected her NCD, but Ageas should still have made its process clear to her.
Putting things right
I think it would have been upsetting for Ms O when she found her NCD had been reduced by 
the amount it had. To put things right Ageas should pay Ms O £50 compensation for the 
trouble and upset it has caused and provide a letter to explain the NCD Ms O had when she 
took her policy and its step back process. This letter will give an accurate reflection of
Ms Os driving history and allow any future insurer to price her insurance accordingly.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited to put things right by doing what 
I've said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman