DRN-4175275
The complaint
Mr B complains that Utmost Life and Pensions Limited (Utmost) delayed carrying out his 
instructions to pay out his transfer pension plan in a cash lump sum, by requiring him to seek 
financial advice.
He says that because he lives abroad it was difficult for him to access this advice and the 
delay resulted in him receiving a lower amount from his pension plan. Mr B also complains 
that Utmost didnt lock in his cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) when he first asked to 
cash in his pension.
What happened
Mr B held a transfer pension plan with Utmost. His recorded retirement date was in April 
2021. 
On 25 May 2020 Mr B contacted Utmost by email with an enquiry about his pension plan.
In July 2020 Utmost responded to his enquiry and provided information about his plan. It 
said that as Mr Bs pension included a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP), which was a 
valuable benefit, government regulations required Utmost to ensure he had sought 
independent financial advice before encashing his pension plan. It enclosed a factsheet 
which gave details of independent organisations who could provide guidance. It also 
enclosed a money advice service booklet. 
In February 2021, Utmost wrote to Mr B again, as he was approaching the recorded 
retirement date it held for him. It again set out in that correspondence that his pension plan 
held a valuable benefit and that he would need to seek independent financial advice before 
encashing it.
On 14 March 2021 Mr B emailed Upmost. He asked about the information it had provided 
and in particular the different values shown, namely the fund value and the cash equivalent 
transfer value. 
Mr B asked Utmost to respond with some further clarification as he said it was difficult for 
him to obtain financial advice because he lived abroad, and the time difference made it 
difficult to contact advisers based in the UK. Mr B asked for the cash value to be transferred 
to his bank account. He then re-sent that email on 10 April 2021 chasing a response. 
On 12 April 2021 Utmost sent an automated acknowledgement indicating it was working 
through a large number of information requests and it would reply to his query as soon as it 
could. It also advised that information was available on its website. 
On 19 April 2021 Utmost responded to Mr Bs enquiry indicating that the CETV was 
available as a lump sum, but government regulations stipulated that the plan holder must 
take independent financial advice before encashing safeguarded benefits. It provided 
information about the value of the plan. 
On 17 June 2021 Mr B contacted Utmost to ask about taking the cash from his plan. Utmost 
confirmed he needed to obtain financial advice as a result of government regulations and 
referred to an organisation which might be able to help him find a regulated adviser. 
Mr B then contacted Utmost again by phone on 8 July and expressed his concern about the 
difficulty he faced finding an adviser because he was living abroad. Utmost arranged to call 
him back on 15 July 2021, which it did. In that call Mr B asked whether he could provide a 
signed and witnessed statutory declaration instead of obtaining financial advice. Utmosts 
representative said that was not something they had ever come across so they would need 
to seek further guidance and come back to Mr B with an answer.
Utmost emailed Mr B on 2 August 2021 and apologised for the time it had taken to respond 
to him. It said it couldnt accept a declaration because the relevant legislation provided that 
financial advice had to be sought and that had to be provided by an appropriately qualified 
financial adviser. Utmost said if it accepted the evidence proposed by Mr B, it would be in 
breach of the requirements set out by the Financial Conduct Authority and it had no 
discretion to accept an alternative as proposed.   
There was an exchange of emails with Mr B repeatedly saying he wanted to cash in his 
pension plan without taking any financial advice. Utmost reiterated that it had no discretion 
and also explained how the value of his pension plan was calculated.
On 20 December 2021 Utmost wrote to Mr B setting out why obtaining financial advice was 
necessary.   
On 4 February 2022 Utmost emailed Mr B and reiterated the same point. It subsequently 
registered a complaint from Mr B about the requirement to obtain financial advice. 
On 17 February 2022 Utmost responded to Mr Bs complaint. It referred back to its previous 
correspondence regarding the requirement for independent financial advice. It then re-stated 
the reason for this:
The reason for the requirement for you to take appropriate independent financial advice is
that this policy contains valuable safeguarded benefits which will be given up if you take an
alternative option, such as taking your savings as cash.
Mr B advised Utmost that he was still unable to access financial advice and asked whether 
he could use a financial adviser from the country he was living in. 
On 25 February 2022 Utmost responded to Mr B and said:
The situation for your policy beginning with xxx..... is as explained in previous 
correspondence. It is a requirement that you obtain advice from an adviser authorised by the 
UK Financial Conduct Authority  FCA) to advise on safeguarded benefits. We are unable to 
waive this requirement or to accept the verification provided by an adviser not authorised by 
the UK FCA.
You may be able to obtain help from the following website www.thepfs.org/yourmonev/find-
an-adviser. Once on that website you could put XXXXX, XXXXX  into the search box and 
then click the search icon. You should then refine your search by clicking on the box for 
Expatriate Finances on the right hand side of the screen.
On 12 March 2022 Mr B responded and reiterated the difficulties he was having in finding an 
adviser.  He said that he didnt think he should have to seek advice and he asked for further 
time to find an adviser, so that he could access the cash value of his plan as a lump sum.
Mr B then sent a further email identifying two potential firms and noting the questions asked 
by those firms.
On 15 March 2022 Utmost responded indicating it was unable to access the information 
contained within his email and asked for Mr B to re-send it. 
On 17 March 2022 an adviser acting on Mr Bs behalf contacted Utmost by email and asked 
for information about his pension plan. On 19 March 2022 Utmost answered a separate query from Mr B about his retirement date. 
It also informed him that it had been contacted by a financial adviser on his behalf and it had 
asked for that enquiry to be dealt with urgently.
On 19 March 2022 Mr B sent Utmost the relevant form signed by his adviser. 
On 23 March 2022 Utmost contacted Mr B and apologised but it said it couldnt accept the 
form he had provided as the adviser and company werent authorised by the FCA. It said 
that it had also received an information request from an authorised company and its 
response was being prepared and would be issued shortly. Utmost explained that the 
authorised company could sign the relevant form.    
On 31 March 2022 Mr B contacted Utmost to ask if the information had been sent.
On 8 April 2022 Utmost emailed Mr B and explained the drop in value of his CETV and how 
that figure was calculated. 
On 20 April 2022 a request for information was sent to Utmost from another financial firm. 
On 26 April 2002 an adviser from that firm acknowledged that it had received some  
information from Utmost and asked some further questions about Mr Bs pension plan.
On 28 April 2022 Utmost responded to that request for further information.
Mr B then chased up the progress of his application to encash his plan. 
On 9 May 2022 Utmost responded to Mr B and said it had provided information to his 
adviser and had spoken to their firm that day and answered their questions.
On 12 May 2022 Utmost sent a further response to Mr Bs complaint explaining how the 
CETV worked and confirming it was not possible to lock in a value. It also said it had 
spoken to his financial adviser and confirmed that Utmost would accept the signed form via 
email.
On 13 May 2022 the signed adviser form was emailed to Utmost.  
Mr B emailed Utmost again to see if has application had been processed. 
On 20 May 2022 Utmost sent a letter by email indicating his payment had been processed 
on that day.
Mr B made a complaint to our service that was considered by our investigator. He concluded 
that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld in part. The investigator didnt think Utmost had 
acted unfairly in requiring evidence that financial advice had been provided to Mr B, before 
paying out the proceeds of his pension plan given it provided safeguarded benefits. He also 
didnt think that Utmost should have locked in the CETV at the point where the majority of 
the paperwork had been provided. He said the relevant date was when Mr B returned all the 
relevant documentation.
The investigator was satisfied that Utmost had directed Mr B to reasonable further sources 
of information to assist him in finding a regulated adviser. 
The investigator took into account Utmosts standard practice timeframe for responding to 
requests which was ten working days. He accepted that Mr Bs request to provide a witness 
signed statutory declaration as an alternative would have required Utmost to seek further 
advice and as a result it would have taken longer for it to respond.
However, the investigator concluded that there had been a delay in responding to Mr Bs 
initial request and some poor communication where Mr B wasnt kept updated, resulting in 
him having to chase a response from Utmost. He didnt think that those issues had impacted 
on the time it had taken to encash Mr Bs pension plan which he felt was caused by the time 
it took to obtain the required financial advice and he said that wasnt the fault of Utmost. 
However, the investigator thought that Utmost should pay £200 compensation for the 
resulting distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B.Mr B disagreed with the investigators conclusions and said that he had been given incorrect 
advice from Utmost as they had initially told him the value of his plan was more than £95,000 
and then contacted him later and told him he would only receive about £70,000. Mr B also 
said he had a document which indicated the cash value was £80,000. So, he felt that Utmost 
was trying to cheat him out of the full value of the plan.  
Mr B also said Utmost had given him the wrong information for years. He said if it had given 
him the right advice in time then he may have been able to receive the money tax free and 
he would have travelled to the UK to cash the plan in here. He said that he had lost out on a 
significant sum of money. 
As no agreement could be reached Mr Bs complaint was referred to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at what I consider to be the crux of Mr Bs complaint, namely what happened 
after he requested the encashment of his pension plan in 2021. I note Mr B has also referred 
to information provided to him in a phone call in 2005 with his former pension provider before 
Utmost took over his plan. Because of the passage of time evidence of the call is not 
available. So, I think it would be difficult for me to reach any fair and reasonable conclusions 
either way about the content of that call. 
Mr B is unhappy with the time it took to encash his pension plan. He said that he first 
requested the encashment in March 2021, but Utmost didnt action his request at that time. 
Mr B said instead it asked him to obtain independent financial advice which he says was 
costly and unnecessary. 
Mr B held a transfer pension plan with Utmost and that plan provided some guaranteed 
benefits, namely a guaranteed minimum pension and a spouses benefit which came into 
effect on the death of the plan holder. These benefits were valuable because they were 
guaranteed. This meant the terms of the plan required Utmost to provide a specified level of 
annual pension to Mr B, irrespective of the investment performance of his plan. So, if the 
fund value of his plan was lower than the cost of providing that benefit, Utmost would have to 
pay the additional amount.  
Because these types of benefits are deemed to be valuable there is legislation in place to 
protect consumers, such as Mr B, so that they dont give up benefits without being properly 
aware of the value of the benefit they are giving up. The effect of that legislation (Pension 
Schemes Act 2015 and applicable regulations) is that providers, such as Utmost, have to 
ensure that the plan holder takes independent financial advice before they give up the 
guaranteed benefits and encash the plan, where the transfer value of their plan is over 
£30,000. That way the plan holder can make an informed choice about whether or not to 
keep their guaranteed pension benefits. This is also set out in government guidance on 
Pension benefits with a guarantee and the advice requirement issued by the Department 
for Work and Pensions.  
Mr B expressed to Utmost on several occasions that he wasnt interested in taking the 
annual pension and he wanted to take the whole value of his plan as a lump sum. He also 
said that he didnt want or need financial advice, he was able to understand what was being 
offered but that simply wasnt something he was interested in. So, Mr B told Utmost that he 
didnt think he needed to take independent financial advice on this issue, and he felt he was 
having to pay for advice unnecessarily. Mr B also expressed the difficulty he was having in 
accessing financial advice about a UK pension plan because he was living abroad.   I appreciate that, for Mr B, who had a clear idea of how he wanted to access his retirement 
benefits, it wouldve been frustrating to be informed that he couldnt simply do that. First, he 
would have to obtain independent financial advice. However, I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to hold Utmost responsible for this because, as a financial business, it was duty 
bound to comply with pension legislation and regulations.  And that required financial advice 
to be taken where the value of the pension plan was more than £30,000 and the plan 
contained safeguarded benefits, such as the guaranteed minimum pension provided by     
Mr Bs plan. Ultimately, that requirement was there to try and protect consumers such as   
Mr B. 
To recap, Utmost wrote to Mr B in July 2020 and said:
Thank you for your e-mail of 25 May 2020.
We enclose information about your policy so you can consider your options regarding 
retirement.
Your policy provides a Guaranteed Minimum Pension income which is detailed on the 
enclosed Policy Factsheet.
Your Guaranteed Minimum Pension is very valuable and will be lost if you take your savings 
as cash or use them to buy an Income Drawdown policy. Government regulations require 
that you seek independent financial advice before encashment.
Then in February 2021, as Mr B was approaching his recorded retirement age, Utmost 
contacted him again and informed him of this requirement. It said:
Your policy provides a Guaranteed Minimum Pension income, which is detailed on the 
enclosed Policy Factsheet.
Your Guaranteed Minimum Pension is very valuable and will be lost if you take your savings 
as cash use then to buy an Income Drawdown policy. Government regulations require that 
you seek independent financial advice before encashment.
So, I consider that when Mr B contacted Utmost in March 2021 he had already been 
informed, about a month before, that this requirement applied to his plan. 
Utmost took longer to respond to Mr Bs request then its usual practice of 10 working days, 
as no response was sent until 19 April 2021. While I acknowledge that there will be 
occasions where responses will take longer than the usual timeframe the business works 
towards, there doesnt appear to be a good reason why this one took longer. I note the 
business comments about needing to undertake a manual calculation, but I think this was a 
fairly simple request. Mr B wanted to understand why there were two different values and he 
wished to encash his plan. 
Utmost did send an acknowledgement to Mr B with a warning that it was dealing with a large 
number of requests, but this wasnt sent until after Mr B had sent a chaser email on 10 April 
2021. So, I think that Utmost couldve sent an acknowledgement, with a warning there may 
be a delay to its response due to its workload, at an earlier stage to keep Mr B informed and 
to manage his expectations. 
However, I agree with the investigator that this delay in responding to his request had no 
material impact on the outcome. Firstly, because I think Mr B had already been made aware 
of the requirement for financial advice prior to April, and secondly, because it took him a long 
time to obtain that financial advice as a result of his particular circumstances. So, I dont 
think taking those additional days, over and above Utmosts standard response time, would 
have made any material difference to the outcome. I also note that Mr B didnt accept that 
obtaining advice was necessary and he continued to make this point to Utmost after April 2021.
I therefore dont think there was more likely than not any financial loss as a result of Utmosts 
actions, but I do think it should compensate Mr B for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the time it took to respond to him without warning him of the likely delay, and I will come 
back to that later in this decision.
Request for alternative of statutory declaration 
On 15 July 2021 Mr B asked Utmost whether he could provide a signed and witnessed 
statutory declaration indicating, in effect, that he was aware he was giving up guaranteed 
benefits instead of obtaining independent financial advice. It took Utmost some time to 
respond to this enquiry and it has explained this was because it wasnt a usual request and it 
had to seek further advice. I accept Utmosts explanation that given the nature of the request 
and the requirements in place for financial advice, it was reasonable for it to seek guidance 
and that this meant it took longer to respond than if it had been a standard question. I also 
note that there was some reference to seeking guidance in the telephone call with Mr B.
However, there doesnt appear to have been any contact from Utmost in the interim to let   
Mr B know that his request was being looked into. And I agree with the investigator that Mr B 
would have been concerned that no progress was being made with his enquiry. This was 
also against the background of his first request to encash his plan being made in March 
2021.
So, I consider that Utmost should pay some compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by that aspect as well. 
Did Utmost provide Mr B with information about how to access a financial adviser
I am satisfied on balance that Utmost tried to help Mr B by giving him information about 
different ways in which he might be able to locate an independent financial adviser and 
pointing him to independent organisations which may have been able to assist. Overall, I 
consider it acted reasonably. 
Was it reasonable for Utmost not to accept the first form provided by Mr B which had been 
signed by an adviser?
I am satisfied on balance that Utmost acted reasonably in not accepting the first form signed 
by an adviser because the adviser and firm were not authorised by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). I consider being authorised was an important part of the advice requirement 
and so I think Utmost was merely following the regulations. And I also note that Utmost 
informed Mr B at the same time that the other firm, who had requested information, was able 
to sign the form because it was authorised. So, I think it highlighted to him another 
reasonable option to achieve his objective of encashing his plan.     
Requests for information in April 2022
I am satisfied that Utmost responded to the requests for information it received from different 
financial firms acting on Mr Bs behalf within a reasonable time frame and within its standard 
turnaround times. 
I note that several items of information were requested by the firm who eventually signed the 
form and that when that information was provided, further questions were posed. I am 
satisfied on balance that Utmost engaged properly with those firms to answer their requests.
However, Mr B has highlighted that his emails werent always acknowledged promptly, and 
he wasnt kept updated during this period. And I think there were occasions where Utmost 
could have acknowledged his emails more promptly, particularly given his clear concern around encashing his plan. Utmost did update Mr B about some of its contact with the 
financial firms acting on his behalf, but it didnt do this on all occasions, which I think led Mr 
B to believe that nothing was happening. So, I agree with the investigator that 
acknowledgment and communication could have been better here. And as I have already 
said earlier in this decision, I think Utmost should pay Mr B some compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.  
Should Utmost have locked in the CETV provided in Feb 2021, or the value in April 2021? 
As the investigator has explained, the CETV was the cost of providing the guaranteed 
benefits held within Mr Bs plan. The benefit provided was a guaranteed annual pension - 
sometimes referred to as an annuity. The cost of providing a specified sum of money every 
year for the remainder of the plan holders life will fluctuate over time depending on various 
factors such as interest rates. So, what it may cost on one date may be very different for 
instance, six months later and that cost, is in effect, the cash value of the plan. And I note 
that the information provided about the value in February 2021 made it clear that that value 
was not guaranteed. It said:
These values are not guaranteed and can go down as well as up.
The fund value of the plan given in February 2021 was about £72,000 which was 
significantly less than the cash equivalent transfer value of about £96,000 and I think that 
further indicates that it was calculated in a different way and based on different factors. 
Similarly, the documentation in April 2021 provided a CETV but in the section entitled 
Important Information it was described as for illustrative purposes only and it stated that   
The actual amount available depends on the date you actually take your savings.
I do appreciate the difficulty Mr B has described in obtaining financial advice about a UK 
pension product while living aboard. However, as Mr B wasnt able to provide all the 
documentation that was required for the payment out of the cash value of his plan at that 
time, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to expect Utmost to pay out that value. 
Particularly, as the purpose of obtaining advice was to give the plan holder more information 
in order to make an informed choice, and from Utmosts point of view, that might have 
resulted in Mr B making a different choice.  
So, overall, I consider that it is fair and reasonable that Utmost paid out the value of Mr Bs 
plan at the point where all the requirements for encashing his plan had been met. 
Summary 
I consider £200 to be fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr B due to the lack of communication from Utmost on the occasions that I have 
identified and the initial delay in responding to his request in March 2021. So, Utmost should 
pay Mr B £200. 
Putting things right
Utmost should pay Mr B £200. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint against Utmost Life and Pensions Limited 
in part. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman