DRN-4007640
The complaint
Mrs G complains that National Westminster Bank Plc have tampered with the contents of her 
safe custody envelope and they told her wrong information.
What happened
NatWest wrote to Mrs G to inform her they were closing their safe custody service and they 
needed to return her envelope to her. She says that when she received it, it had been 
opened and tampered with, as there were bearer bonds missing, but in addition to this, there 
was an item in there which didnt belong to her, which had been stamped and dated after 
any access to the envelope. Mrs G had a call with NatWest, who told her incorrect 
information about how long the envelope had been stored. Mrs G made a complaint to 
NatWest.
NatWest did not uphold the complaint, but they credited her account with £30 as a gesture of 
goodwill. They said they had spoken to their safe custody team who confirmed all of the safe 
custody items were held under strict control, with dual access required for withdrawal and 
there was no opportunity for items to be tampered with while they were within the branch or 
the mail room. They said they could assure Mrs G that no staff within the branch would know 
what was in the envelope as they had a strict policy on this. They said having investigated 
this further, the only information they hold is a transaction history list of the item, and they 
asked her to contact the branch she received the item from if she required a copy of the 
transaction history. Mrs G brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Gs complaint. He said in 2008, NatWest moved to 
electronic records and this shows there was no access between 2008-2022, apart from the 
envelope being sent to Mrs G. He said when the envelope was sent to her, it was sealed 
with a bar code sticker, but he couldnt hold NatWest responsible for anything which 
occurred after it left NatWest. He said NatWest have been unable to explain how the item 
dated 1998 appeared in the envelope as NatWest have confirmed that any access to the 
envelope would be under a strict dual control process, but due to the passage of time since 
then, there is no conclusive evidence to show how this item got there. Mrs G asked for an 
ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive had a look in detail at the handwritten ledger which NatWest used prior to them using 
electronic records. While some of the handwriting is illegible, I can make out certain things 
on this document. This may be of use to Mrs G regarding the bearer bonds she believes are 
missing, so if Mrs G to see a copy of the handwritten ledgers, then she can ask our 
investigator for this information. 
The handwritten ledger shows three entries. The first entry is dated 9 July 1973. This is 
when NatWests records show the All of this writing for this entry has a line through the text 
(which Ill move onto later). While some of the writing is illegible to me, it does appear that it 
shows a type of equity with a reference number which appears to say for g.teed 
(presumably guaranteed) sum of £1607. dated 29.5.73 maturity date 29.05.11. The entry 
also shows for g.teed sum of £1513 dated 22.5.73. maturity date 22.5.2009. There is 
another policy which may be a whole of life policy also mentioned in that entry. So its not 
clear whether some of these entries relate to the bearer bonds that Mrs G believes are 
missing. 
There are two entries dated 26 September 1980. The first is a mortgage protection policy. 
The second is for what may be copies relating to the transfer of property and lists an 
address. These entries do not have a line through the entry. And there is nothing that could 
resemble bearer bonds being deposited on this date.
The ledger also shows a section called discharge and date. So this is when items held in the 
safe custody would have been discharged, or in other words withdrawn from the safe 
custody. For the items listed in the 9 July 1973 entry, there are entries listed in the discharge 
section. The first is dated 15 November 1976. Unfortunately I cant make out the writing 
before the date. The second entry appears to say 22/1/80 out redemption, which would 
appear one of the aforementioned policies had been redeemed as there is an entry on the 
line below saying A/c er (possibly meaning account transfer) £284.30 26.2.80. The other 
entry appears to say to accounts 15.11.76. The ledger shows initials for what appears to be 
checking initials and checker initials, so it does appear that two members of staff would initial 
the ledger when the safe custody had been accessed. 
Im persuaded that there is a line through the entry of 9 July 1973 as the items which were 
held appear to have been discharged/withdrawn from the safe custody envelope. While 
policies may have had a maturity date up to 2011 in one instance, this does not mean the 
policy was kept in the safe custody envelope for this timeframe. The evidence suggests this 
was discharged. In addition to the line crossing out the 9 July 1973 entry, I can see faint text 
which appears to show the initials of Mrs Gs ex-husband. So here, as he had access to the 
safe custody envelope, it would appear that he withdrew the items entered on 9 July 1973 on 
15 November 1976 and 22 January 1980. The items deposited on 26 September 1980 do 
not have a discharge date.
There doesnt appear to be any other records until 2008. The electronic records show a 
transaction type of deposit dated 26 November 2008 at 15:27pm. But at this time, NatWest 
didnt record the contents anymore of the safe custody envelope. Its possible this could 
relate to the deposit of the extra item Mrs G found in the envelope. Although this isnt 
addressed to her or her ex-husband, I note it contains the same surname as her and I cant 
rule out her ex-husband depositing this on behalf of a relative. But Im also aware that this 
just may be the date that NatWest transferred from handwritten records to electronic records 
as the branch have said this was done in 2008.
While I cant give a definitive answer to Mrs G how the extra item was in her safe custody 
envelope. I cant prove her envelope had been tampered with. There is clear evidence of 
items being withdrawn in 1976 and 1980. Its possible the extra item was deposited in 2008 
based on the electronic record showing deposit, but I cant prove this either way.
Although Mrs G says that the envelope wasnt sealed properly, NatWest confirmed it had 
been sealed with a bar code sticker. My understanding (based on the letters they sent 
customers regarding the return of the safe custody contents), is that NatWest sent the 
envelope by special delivery, so I would find it unlikely that the delivery service would accept 
an unsealed (or loosely sealed) envelope. If this became unsealed in transit, I would be 
unable to hold NatWest responsible for this as this would be out of their control.Mrs G was given incorrect information from NatWest regarding staff not knowing the 
contents of the envelope. But Im persuaded this was an honest mistake based on the 
contents not being noted on the electronic record and it was so long ago that the items were 
listed on a handwritten ledger (over 40 years ago in Mrs Gs case), that the call handlers 
were probably unaware of this  and wouldnt have access to the handwritten ledger. But I 
do think this may have led to some of the mistrust Mrs G has with NatWest as she knew she 
was told items of the envelope by the branch staff. So she knew the information from the call 
handler was incorrect. So I do think compensation would be due for the distress the 
information had on her. But Im satisfied the £30 compensation they paid her would be 
proportionate here, as this is in line with our guidelines for what she was told here. As 
NatWest have said they have already credited this to her account, it follows that I dont 
require them to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman