DRN-4321784
The complaint
Miss L complains Moneybarn No.1 Limited (Moneybarn) irresponsibly entered a Conditional 
Sale Agreement because they didnt complete adequate checks to ensure the agreement 
was affordable for her. 
What happened
Miss L took out a Conditional Sale Agreement with Moneybarn on 20 February 2019 for a 
used car. The cash price of the car was £5,896. She didnt pay a deposit under the 
agreement, and she was to make 59 monthly repayments of £180.93. The APR was 30.4% 
and the total amount repayable was £10,674.87.
 
Miss Ls representative contacted Moneybarn to complain in December 2022. Miss L said 
she had little, or no money left over after paying her bills and credit commitments each 
month. Also, that she had been overdrawn for a significant period of time and she was using 
this to meet her credit commitments. She said her income had changed after she entered 
into the agreement, but Moneybarn didnt check this. She said she became dependent on 
further borrowing to pay off existing borrowing and she had problems meeting all of her 
commitments. Therefore, the representative said Moneybarn lent to Miss L irresponsibly.
 
Moneybarn responded to the complaint in February 2023. It set out the checks it had 
completed which included a full credit search, independent verification of income and 
statistical data to estimate non-discretionary expenditure. It said the information received 
from these checks suggested the agreement was affordable. Therefore, it felt it had lent to 
Miss L responsibly. 
Miss L remained unhappy, and her representative asked our service to investigate. Our 
Investigator felt the checks carried out by Moneybarn werent proportionate in light of the 
knowledge it had of Miss Ls previous financial difficulties. However, our Investigator felt that 
had proportionate and reasonable checks been carried out its likely it would have concluded 
the lending was affordable.
 
Miss Ls representative didnt accept the decision. The representative said the bank 
statements showed a number of returned direct debits which demonstrate Miss L was 
struggling to maintain her finances. 
Therefore, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as our Investigator and for similar 
reasons. I would note Miss L has provided some additional information since the view was 
issued including an additional bank statement and her credit file. This was requested so I 
could ensure I had an accurate picture of Miss Ls financial circumstances at the time. But 
Im satisfied this information hasnt significantly changed the overall circumstances as 
outlined in our Investigators view, so Ive proceeded with a decision on the matter.
Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules and guidance for lenders set out in the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. I 
think there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
 
1. Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss L would be able to repay the borrowing? 
a) If so, did it make a fair lending decision? 
b) If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss L could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss L 
would be able to repay the agreement? 
Before granting credit, Moneybarn were required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Miss Ls ability to sustainably repay the debt. This is often referred to as an 
affordability check. This check had to be borrower focussed. This means it needed to be 
concerned with whether Miss L could sustainably afford the borrowing (considering her 
specific circumstances), rather than how statistically likely she was to repay. The latter is the 
risk posed to Moneybarn as the lender, or its credit risk but this is not necessarily the same 
as an assessment of affordability. 
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited to: 
The amount of credit;
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments; 
The duration of the agreement; 
The cost of the credit; and 
The consumers individual circumstances. 
Moneybarn said it completed a full credit search showing Miss Ls current level of borrowing, 
repayment history and past defaulted accounts. It hasnt provided a copy of the search but 
said in its final response that the existing level of borrowing was within its lending criteria. It 
also said Miss L had defaulted on some previous borrowing, the most recent of which had 
been entered 21 months prior to the application. Also, that there was no insolvency 
information recorded on the file. 
Ive had a look at the credit report provided by Miss L. This report was generated in 
September 2023 so Im mindful it wont show all of the information Moneybarn would have 
seen at the time or the balances on accounts. But it does show some of the information it 
would have seen. It shows Miss L had a current account open, and it also shows 14 missed 
payments towards a telecommunications agreement. Considering this and the information 
Moneybarn said it had at the time, Im satisfied it could understand Miss L previously had 
some difficulty with managing her finances. 
Moneybarn said it independently verified Miss Ls stated monthly income of £1,260 with the 
credit reference agency and whether the income level was in line with stated occupation. It also said it used statistical data from the Office of National Statistics (ONS) to estimate the 
level of non-discretionary expenditure (including housing, council tax, utilities and vehicle 
costs). It assessed Miss Ls net disposable income as being around £559 and meant she 
had an estimated £700 for non-discretionary expenditure which was sufficient to cover the 
£180.93 monthly repayments.
However, Im not satisfied these checks alone were reasonable and proportionate. Miss L 
had a low amount of income and previous history of financial difficulties. Moneybarn could 
understand this from the information it had gathered. This should have prompted it to do 
more checks to verify income and expenditure. This would have given Moneybarn a more 
accurate picture of Miss Ls specific financial circumstances and allowed them to make a 
reasonable assessment about whether she would be able to sustainably repay the 
agreement. 
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown Miss L would be able to repay the 
agreement in a sustainable way? 
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out on this agreement, I need to 
decide what a reasonable and proportionate check would have shown. Such additional 
checks might have included asking Miss L about her committed expenditure and depending 
on what was said, verifying this by obtaining further information. 
To understand what information Moneybarn were likely to have received, Ive reviewed four 
bank statements which show Miss Ls income and expenditure in the months leading up to 
the agreement. I want to be clear that Im not suggesting Moneybarn needed to check Miss 
Ls bank statements specifically, but Im satisfied that these give me a good indication of 
what information it would likely have found out about her financial circumstances had it 
completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks. 
I understand Miss L told Moneybarn she had an income of around £1,260. Ive reviewed the 
bank statements from the months leading up to the agreement. I can see Miss Ls income 
was on average around £1,250. However, I am mindful the lowest monthly income she 
received was £973.51. Its also worth noting she received a regular monthly payment of 
£180 from what seems to be a friend or family account. Ive not included this in the average 
amount Ive calculated because its not clear what this payment was for, and it doesnt 
change the outcome of this decision. 
Ive also considered her monthly outgoings. This includes (but is not limited to) payments 
towards phone contracts, food, petrol, rent and car insurance. I can also see she was paying 
£81 per month towards a loan. Ive noted what Miss L has said about her credit 
commitments. But the statements dont generally demonstrate Miss L was paying a 
significant sum towards credit commitments. Having reviewed all this, I can see her non-
discretionary expenditure was about £850. This left a disposable income of around £400 
which was sufficient to cover the monthly repayments of £180.93 under the agreement. 
The statements also do show Miss L had a number of direct debits returned. However, the 
income she received entered into her account throughout the month and under separate 
payments. It seems the timing of the direct debits sometimes meant there werent sufficient 
funds in the account at those particular times. But then she would receive an income 
payment increasing the balance of her account. So, I dont think this meant the agreement 
was unaffordable. 
As mentioned, the credit file doesnt show all the information Moneybarn would have seen at 
the time. However, it seems Miss L had a previous default recorded 21 months prior to the 
agreement. She also had 14 missed payments on a telecommunications agreement. Nevertheless, she seemed to be managing her finances in the period leading up to the 
agreement. Therefore, these entries wouldnt be sufficient for me to conclude Moneybarn 
shouldnt have lent to Miss L, particularly where it seemed she had sufficient disposable 
income. 
Having carefully considered all the information, Im satisfied had Moneybarn completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks, it would have found the agreement was affordable 
and Miss L had sufficient disposable income to cover the monthly repayments. 
Did Moneybarn act unfairly in some other way?
I appreciate Miss L has described the difficult personal circumstances she has experienced. 
I wont describe them in detail here because it is personal to her. But I do want to assure 
Miss L that Ive thought carefully about what shes said. Nevertheless, Im not satisfied the 
circumstances as described meant Moneybarn acted unfairly when entering into the 
agreement. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman