DRN-2586835
The complaint
Miss Q complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt repair her cars brakes following a 
claim on her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss Q was involved in an accident and called UKI for assistance. She was unhappy with its 
response and made a separate complaint about this, which UKI upheld. Her car was then 
taken for repair, but Miss Q said it was returned to her with faulty brakes. UKI said its 
engineer thought this wasnt accident-related but due to wear and tear. The repairing garage 
said it had warned Miss Q about the faulty brakes when it returned the car. Miss Q disagreed 
with this and that the brake repair was down to her. 
our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought UKI hadnt 
done enough to investigate the issue. He said a recent MOT hadnt found any issues with 
the brakes. He thought UKI should appoint an independent assessor to examine the brakes. 
UKI replied that it didnt have any engineering evidence to contradict its own engineers view 
that the brakes were worn out and not accident-related damage. It declined to appoint an 
independent assessor unless Miss Q provided contradictory evidence. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss Q 
and to UKI on 6 January 2021. I summarise my findings:
Miss Q was unhappy that UKI didnt accept liability for fixing her cars brakes. Were not 
engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused as this is 
a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and engineers. Our 
role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has considered all 
the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for additional repairs.
I could see that when UKIs approved garage first inspected Miss Qs car following the 
accident, it sent her a text message to say that the front brake pads were worn. Miss Q didnt 
recall receiving this message. She said shed only spoken to the receptionist at the garage. 
But the message also gave contact details and information about the repairs. So Id no 
reason to say it wasnt sent. 
The garage also said it told Miss Q verbally when it returned the car that the brakes were in 
need of urgent attention. Miss Q disagreed that she was told this. Id not seen any evidence 
to confirm this either way so I couldnt say whether this happened or not. 
The car was returned to Miss Q and after driving for 30 miles, the brakes failed. UKIs 
engineer inspected the front brakes and found them to be very worn. He said this could only 
have happened over time. 
The garage said it hadnt known the extent of the wear previously as it hadnt removed the 
wheels. And so it hadnt told Miss Q that the car was undriveable. I thought that was fair and 
reasonable as it had repaired bodywork and electrics and hadnt needed to remove the 
wheels. 
Our investigator thought that if there had been a problem with the brakes, then this would 
have been identified in the cars first MOT carried out two months before the accident. But Id 
seen that Miss Q had driven a further 2,000 miles since then. So I thought the brakes could 
have become more worn in this time. So I couldnt say that the MOT pass meant that the 
brakes were damaged in the accident. 
UKI said there wasnt any evidence that the car had been serviced in the time that Miss Q 
had owned it. So it couldnt see that the brakes had ever been checked or maintained. I 
thought if Miss Q has evidence of services, then she should provide these to UKI for it to 
consider. 
Our investigator thought UKI should appoint an independent assessor to inspect Miss Qs 
car. But I didnt think it would be fair or reasonable to require this at this stage. This was 
because I thought UKI didnt have any evidence that contradicted what its garage and 
engineer had said. And I thought it would be unfair to ask it to incur extra expenses without 
this. 
I could understand that Miss Q felt dubious about the independence of UKIs engineers. But I 
thought UKI had considered the expert engineering evidence of the garage and its engineer 
that the brakes were very worn, and this was due to wear and tear. I could see that wear and 
tear is excluded from cover under the policy. So I thought UKI had justified its decision not to 
pay for the repairs to the brakes. 
I thought it was for Miss Q to provide engineering evidence that showed that the brakes were 
damaged by the accident. I thought UKI should then consider this and if it disagreed, then I 
thought it should appoint an independent assessor to inspect the brakes. 
Subject to any further representations by Miss Q or UKI, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to not uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI replied that it had nothing further to add. Miss Q didnt provide anything further. So, as 
Ive received no further representations to consider, I can see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Q to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman