DRN-4479024
The complaint
Mr H is complaining about Advantage Finance Ltd. He says they were irresponsible in 
lending to him because the repayments were unaffordable.
What happened
In April 2021, Mr H took out a hire purchase agreement with Advantage to finance the 
purchase of a van. He paid no deposit and borrowed £7,999 - the cash price of the vehicle. 
The agreement required Mr H to make 59 monthly repayments of £225.39 and a final 
instalment of £425.39  so the total amount payable was £13,723.40. In late October 2021, 
Mr H asked for a settlement figure and then voluntarily terminated the agreement the 
following month. There was a significant balance left to pay and Mr H continued to make 
monthly payments to Advantage.
In March 2023, Mr H complained to Advantage, saying that hed been given the finance at a 
time when hed just started self-employment, knowing that it was unaffordable. This meant 
hed struggled to make payments and had to voluntarily terminate the agreement and send 
the van back after six months.
Advantage didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. They said Mr H had said on his application that 
he was single, living in rented accommodation and working full time with income of over 
£2,000 per month. They said theyd verified his income using current account turnover 
(CATO) data and used statistical data to estimate his expenditure. Advantage added that 
when they checked Mr Hs credit file they could see hed defaulted on some accounts but 
this was several years prior to the application. And they said theyd provided Mr H with 
sufficient information about the costs of the agreement and asked whether he was aware of 
any planned changes to his working arrangements before allowing him to proceed with the 
agreement. 
Advantage pointed out that Mr H had told them he was terminating the agreement because 
of a change in circumstances. They concluded that theyd done proportionate checks and 
appropriately decided to lend to Mr H but that the repayments had become unaffordable 
because of Mr Hs change in circumstances. 
Mr H was unhappy with Advantages response so brought his complaint to our service. One 
of our investigators looked into it but didnt uphold it. He said from the evidence hed seen, 
he thought Advantage hadnt conducted proportionate checks. But when he looked at Mr Hs 
bank statements from the time of lending, he thought these showed the agreement was 
affordable for Mr H. 
Mr H replied, disputing our investigators calculation of his disposable income. Because Mr H 
disagreed with our investigator, the complaint was referred for a decision  and its come to 
me.  I issued a provisional decision on 23 November 2023. Both parties accepted my 
provisional decision so Ive copied it below and this now forms my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint  Ill explain why below.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did Advantage carry out proportionate checks?
Advantage said they carried out the following checks:
reviewed Mr Hs credit file;
used statistical data to estimate Mr Hs expenditure; and
used CATO data to check Mr Hs income.
They arrived at monthly income of £2,280, housing costs (including utilities and council tax) 
of about £710 and payments to creditors of around £720. Advantage said this left Mr H with 
around £850 per month to cover other household expenditure and the repayments on this 
agreement, which they said meant he could comfortably afford the loan he was looking for.
Whether or not these checks were proportionate depends on various factors, including the 
size and length of the loan, the cost of credit, and what Advantage found. The loan was a 
moderate amount, for five years, and at a high interest rate  so my starting point is that 
checks needed to be thorough. 
CONC allows firms to use statistical data in their affordability assessments unless they have 
reason to suspect that a customers non-discretionary expenditure is significantly higher than 
that described in the data. 
Advantage said Mr Hs credit file didnt give them any cause for concern. But Ive looked at 
the credit report Advantage used and I can see Mr H had total credit balances of over 
£19,000. He had a County Court Judgement against him dated February 2019, had missed 
payments for utilities and an unsecured loan in mid-2020, and defaulted on two further 
unsecured loans in October 2020, just six months before his application. All of these are 
indicators that Mr H might be in some financial difficulty and therefore that his expenditure 
might be significantly higher than Advantage had estimated.
It follows that Im not satisfied Advantage did proportionate checks  I think they should have 
done more to understand his expenditure given the levels of debt and the recent defaults 
seen on his credit file.
If Advantage had carried out proportionate checks, what would they have found?
As Ive explained above, I think proportionate checks would have involved finding out more 
about Mr Hs expenditure.
Ive looked at statements for Mr Hs bank account for the three months leading up to his 
application to Advantage. Im not saying Advantage needed to look at Mr Hs statements but 
in the absence of any other information, bank statements provide a good indication of Mr Hs 
income and expenditure at the time the lending decision was made.Having done so, I can see Mr Hs rent and council tax totalled around £580 per month. His 
payments for utilities averaged £150 per month and for communications and TV it was also 
around £150 per month. However, Mr H was paying £400 a month on average in child 
maintenance. So his committed expenditure (excluding his credit commitments) was around 
£1,280 at the time of his application. 
Deducting this from Mr Hs income left him with £1,000 per month to cover his payments to 
creditors, food, and other expenditure. Advantage said the credit report showed Mr H 
needed to pay around £720 per month to his creditors, and having reviewed the credit report 
myself I dont disagree with this figure. So that left Mr H with £280 per month. Clearly this 
wasnt enough to cover food, monthly repayments for the new agreement, and associated 
costs like vehicle insurance, road tax and fuel. 
In summary, I think there were a number of indicators on Mr Hs credit file which should have 
prompted Advantage to do more to understand Mr Hs expenditure. And if they had, theyd 
have realised that in addition to the expenditure theyd calculated, he was making significant 
regular payments for child maintenance which meant the agreement would be unaffordable 
for him. Im satisfied that if Advantage had carried out proportionate checks, they couldnt 
fairly have decided to lend to Mr H.
Putting things right
As I dont think Advantage should have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for them to 
be able to charge any interest or other charges under the agreement. But Mr H had use of 
the van for around seven months so I think its fair he pays for that use. Im not persuaded 
that his monthly repayments of over £225 are a fair reflection of what fair usage would be  
because a significant proportion of those repayments went towards repaying interest.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair monthly repayment would be to 
reflect Mr Hs usage. But in deciding whats fair and reasonable Ive thought about the 
amount of interest charged, Mr Hs likely overall usage of the van, and what his costs to stay 
mobile would likely have been if he didnt have this van. Having done so, Im satisfied a fair 
amount for Mr H would be £135 per month, or a total of £945.
To settle Mr Hs complaint, Advantage should do the following:
Refund all the payments Mr H has paid in total against the agreement, less £945 for 
fair usage, adding 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement.
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file regarding the 
agreement.
If Advantage consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award they 
should give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. Advantage Finance Ltd need to 
take the steps outlined above to settle the matter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 Clare King
Ombudsman