DRN-1796045
The complaint
Miss J complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
associated with her mortgage by Mortgages Direct Limited (Mortgages Direct).
What happened
In 2001 Miss J took out a mortgage through Mortgages Direct and also purchased a 
standalone PPI policy which was intended to cover her mortgage repayments if she was off 
work through unemployment. 
Miss J complained that the PPI was mis-sold but Mortgages Direct didnt uphold her 
complaint. Miss J wasnt happy with this and she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said that they didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. 
Miss J remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Js case.
Miss J has told us that she did not want PPI when she took out her mortgage and believes 
any application for PPI was made without her consent or knowledge. 
The records and information provided by Mortgages Direct show that Miss Js mortgage 
application form was totally separate to the application form completed for the PPI. On the 
mortgage application form Miss J indicated she did not want the PPI offered by the mortgage 
provider. This mortgage application was completed in March 2001.
A totally separate application form was completed for the PPI in June 2001 for a standalone 
PPI policy. The cover selected on this application form was for unemployment only at a cost 
of £15.80 for a benefit of £430 each month. A separate direct debit form to take the payment 
from Miss Js bank account was also completed at the same time as the PPI application 
form. Both of these documents were signed by Miss J. 
Miss J says she clearly stated on the mortgage application form she did not want PPI. And I 
can see she did indicate this to her mortgage provider on that application form. However, the 
PPI application form to take out the standalone PPI policy was completed just over two 
months later, not long before Miss J was due to complete her property purchase. This was 
possibly around the time of exchange of contracts. So it is very likely Mortgages Direct 
contacted her around this time about progression of the mortgage and discussed PPI again. 
Miss J states the PPI application was completed in writing by someone else, not her, as was 
the mortgage application form in the March. And that both forms look as though they could have been completed by the same person. I think that is likely looking at the writing. Miss J 
also states the signatures on the mortgage and on the PPI applications look similar, and I 
also agree with that. Although she then goes on to say that even if it is her signature it 
doesnt mean the PPI wasnt mis-sold.
Miss J was required to sign the mortgage application, and also the PPI application, 
confirming she wanted to take out the product, based on the information set out in each 
application form for each product. And it seems she did sign both forms, as the signatures 
do match. I also have seen a copy of the direct debit form to set this up separately for the 
PPI monthly payment, and that again has a signature that looks the same. 
So I think at the time Miss J did agree to take out the PPI, not at the same time as her 
mortgage application was completed but at a separate time a few weeks later. And I think at 
that time when she decided to take out the PPI she clearly knew she had a choice.
I also note that the PPI application form gave several options of the level of cover and the 
one selected and agreed by Miss J was for unemployment cover only. This was the lowest 
cost and the monthly cost of £15.80 for a benefit of £430.00 is clearly stated on the 
application form Miss J signed.
Miss J was eligible for the PPI and as she was employed in permanent employment with no 
unusual employment restrictions then it seems she was eligible for the full benefit of the 
policy she took out to cover unemployment. Even if the full terms and conditions relating to 
the policy werent discussed, she would not have been caught by them from what she has 
said about her circumstances. So additional detail and  information about the policy terms 
would not have affected her choice to take out the policy. 
I have also noted all Miss Js other points about the application forms and dates. 
The completion date stated on the PPI application form was the completion of the PPI set 
up, not her purchase completion. This for indicates the 10 July 2001, which was the date the 
PPI started. 
A standalone PPI can be taken out at any time and does not have to start at the same time a 
person moves or takes out their mortgage. In this case, the mortgage and move completed 
on 29 June 2001, and the PPI was applied for before completion of the move. The policy 
became active just after the mortgage paid out and cover under the policy started just before 
the first mortgage payment would have been due  as 15th of the month was chosen as the 
date to pay. So the first payment was due on 15th July, although may not have been taken 
until August, and PPI cover started on 10 July.
Therefore, although Miss J says all the dates do not match, this is not any indication the 
policy was taken out without her knowledge or with wrong information. Overall, I think as she 
signed both the PPI application form and the direct debit form, separately to the mortgage 
application form,  she did know about the policy. And in view of the choice of type of cover 
taken out, I think she would have been involved in that choice.
The fact the PPI welcome pack was not received by Miss J seems to be because the 
application for the PPI was made whilst she was still at her old address. The PPI application 
form made no reference to any future address, so the insurers sent the welcome pack to her 
address indicated on the form. It would only have been forwarded to a new address under 
any arrangement Miss J may have had in place for her post.
Miss J has also said she didnt know about the PPI until she received a leaflet about it. It is 
unclear when this was received as she said in her original complaint to the business it was a year after she moved and took out the PPI. She has in her complaint to this service said it 
was two years later. Miss J says when she did find out about it she then took action to 
cancel the PPI and cancelled her direct debit.
Some records from the insurer indicate the policy was cancelled by Miss J, but not until 
September 2004. So it ran for just over 3 years. The policy was then cancelled, and the 
direct debit also cancelled. 
As the direct debit was being taken out of Miss Js account separately to her mortgage 
Miss J would have been aware the payment was coming out of her account each month. So 
she could have cancelled it at any time, as she did when she decided she no longer wanted 
the PPI in 2004.
In summary, I would reassure Miss J I have considered all the points she has made and tried 
to respond to the principle ones. However from all the documents completed at the time I 
think Miss J did sign and agree to take out the PPI and so I think she must have thought the 
cover may have been beneficial to her. 
Its possible the information Mortgages Direct gave Miss J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
couldve been relating to the terms and conditions. But she wasnt affected by any 
restrictions. As she chose to take out the PPI at the time, it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And on the facts presented I cannot see any grounds to say that the PPI wasnt 
suitable for her.
It follows I dont think the PPI was mis-sold by Mortgages Direct. I think at the time Miss J 
was aware she had a choice whether to take it out and she thought it would be useful to her. 
And she would have been able to claim on the policy for the benefits she had chosen if she 
needed to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold to Miss J by Mortgages 
Direct Limited and Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman