DRN-2089442
The complaint
Mr E complains that he was mis-sold a Select Added Value Account (SAVA) and a Gold 
Added Value Account (GAVA) by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds). He also complains that Lloyds 
didnt allow him to downgrade from his GAVA when he went overdrawn.
What happened
Mr E held a bank account with Lloyds from 2004. His first account did not have a fee.
He took out the SAVA in November 2005 which incurred a monthly fee.
Mr E upgraded to a Gold Added Value Account (GAVA) in July 2008 which also incurred a 
monthly fee.
Mr Es account became substantially overdrawn at various times and he incurred charges 
and interest as a result.
Lloyds has said the SAVA and GAVA were not mis-sold and that it didnt receive a request to 
downgrade his account until it did so in 2016.
Our adjudicator investigated Mr Es complaint and didnt uphold it. Mr E disagrees so the 
complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E was aware he could have an account with no fee as hed had one without a fee for 
many years. So, I think he chose to take out the SAVA and the GAVA based on Lloyds 
advice and information.
So, the requirement on Lloyds was to provide Mr E with enough information about the SAVA 
and GAVA to make an informed choice at the times of sale. And in recommending the SAVA 
and GAVA, it also needed to take adequate steps to ensure that the SAVA and GAVA were 
a reasonable fit for Mr Es circumstances.
the SAVA sale in November 2005
The SAVA contained a range of benefits including AA car breakdown cover, mobile phone 
insurance, sentinel card protection, discounts on car purchases and holiday travel and a £50 
interest free overdraft with a better rate of interest for overdrafts over £50. The AA car 
breakdown service covered Mr E whether he was the driver, or a passenger of a car and 
cover was automatic. 
I dont know what Lloyds said or what information it gave Mr E, but Lloyds was trying to sell 
the SAVA to Mr E, so I think its more likely than not that he had a good understanding of the 
cost and benefits.
It appears to me from Lloyds evidence and what Mr E says that he had a car and a phone at 
the time of the sale. I can also see from previous his account record that he occasionally 
went a little overdrawn.
So, I can see why he would have been interested in the SAVA. In addition, Lloyds says the 
SAVA was on offer for free for up to 5 months, and it has a record that shows that Mr E 
called in and requested the SAVA for the insurances. Mr E could have closed the SAVA at 
any time thereafter, but he didnt and later upgraded his account.
Taking all this into account, I think its more likely than not that Mr E chose to take out the 
SAVA and it was suitable for him, and there was no information that he didnt receive that 
would likely have put him off taking the SAVA.
the GAVA sale in July 2008
Mr E had had the SAVA for nearly three years before he took out the GAVA, so I think by 
then he was familiar with the costs and benefits of packaged bank accounts.
The GAVA contained a similar range of benefits to the SAVA including AA car breakdown 
cover, mobile phone insurance, sentinel card protection, discounts on car purchases and 
holiday travel and a £100 interest free overdraft with a better rate of interest for overdrafts 
over £100. It also contained worldwide travel insurance and was the cheapest account 
Lloyds had which did so.
Again, I dont know what Lloyds said or what information it gave Mr E, but Lloyds was trying 
to sell the GAVA to Mr E, so I think its more likely than not that he had a good 
understanding of the costs and benefits, particularly in this case as hed had a SAVA 
previously.
As before, the AA breakdown service covered Mr E whether he was the driver, or a 
passenger of a car and cover was automatic. The travel insurance was also automatically in 
place once the account was opened.
From Lloyds evidence and what Mr E says, he had a car and a phone at the time of the 
sale. He registered a mobile phone for the cover in 2013. Mr E also says he did travel, but 
not to where Lloyds suggested he did. Whenever he travelled, he was covered by the 
GAVAs travel insurance and could have made a claim.
Mr Es GAVA records shown that he was substantially overdrawn at times and so benefitted 
from the better overdraft facilities that came with the account.
So, as before, I can see why he would have been interested in the GAVA, and Mr E could 
have closed the GAVA at any time.
Taking all this into account, I think its more likely than not that Mr E chose to take out the 
GAVA and it was suitable for him, and there was no information that he didnt receive that 
would likely have put him off taking the GAVA.
For completeness, Mr E says that he wanted to downgrade the GAVA to a fee free account 
and take out a loan to cover his overdraft, and he asked several times and Lloyds wouldnt 
let him do it.I dont doubt Mr Es honest recollections and I think its possible Lloyds may have said it 
wouldnt close the account entirely without arrangements being made to repay the overdraft, 
as that would have been a reasonable position for Lloyds to take. 
But Lloyds has provided its record of customer interactions with Mr E and the only request 
that is recorded is in 2016, when the account was downgraded. Also, this service doesnt 
have any systemic record of Lloyds refusing to downgrade accounts when requested. 
So, I think its more likely than not that Lloyds didnt refuse to downgrade Mr Es account. 
Mr E also says that he had other provision for the travel and mobile insurances and the car 
breakdown cover. But that doesnt make the SAVA or the GAVA unsuitable for him, as it was 
for him to make arrangements to best use the account benefits once he had them.
conclusion
So, in my view the SAVA and the GAVA were not mis-sold to Mr E and Lloyds didnt do 
anything wrong in this matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman