DRN-4374334
Complaint
Mr S has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to him. 
He says the loan was irresponsibly approved for him.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mr S with a loan for £2,000.00 in December 2019. This loan had an 
APR of 99.9% and the total amount to be repaid of £3,738.96, which included interest fees 
and charges of £3,738.96, was due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of just £155.79.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr S and 118 118 Money had told us. He thought 
that 118 118 Money hadnt acted unfairly by providing this loan to Mr S and so didnt think 
that the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr S disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsman to take a 
look at his case.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr S complaint. 
Having considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr S complaint. Ill explain why 
this is the case in a little more detail.
118 118 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr S could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money says it agreed to Mr S application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr S could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr S says he shouldnt have been lent to and the loan was irresponsibly 
approved for him.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr S and 118 118 Money have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that this was Mr S first loan with 118 118 Money. And         
118 118 Money has provided an output of the income and expenditure information recorded 
at the time of Mr S application as well as a record of the results of its credit searches. So its 
clear that 118 118 Money did obtain a reasonable amount of information before it decided to 
proceed with Mr S application. 
118 118 Money carried out a credit check on Mr S and it showed that Mr S had some 
previous difficulties with credit in the form of defaulted accounts. But these were historic as 
they dated back four years to 2015. Its also fair to say that apart from a couple of odd 
payments, Mr S active credit commitments were reasonably well maintained. And more 
importantly Mr S recent repayment record didnt in itself suggest that Mr S would have 
trouble making his payments on this loan.
I accept that Mr S appears to be suggesting that his actual circumstances werent fully 
reflected either in the information he provided, or the information 118 118 Money obtained at 
the time. But 118 118 Money could only make a reasonable decision based on the 
information it had available at the time. 
As this was a first loan and there wasnt anything to indicate that Mr S might have 
experienced, or been experiencing, recent financial difficulty, Im satisfied that 118 118 
Money was reasonably entitled to believe that Mr S could afford to make his payments. 
I also accept that it is possible  but by no means certain - that 118 118 Money might have 
reached a different conclusion on whether to provide this loan had it seen Mr S bank 
statements.  I know that Mr S suggests that this is the case, although hes not been able to 
provide this information to us. 
In any event, and whats most important here is that given the circumstances, in terms of the 
lack of obvious inconsistencies and the relatively low monthly payments, I dont think that 
reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended into obtaining bank statements. 
As this is the case, I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Mr S  in my view, it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks which 
indicated that the repayments were more likely than not affordable. 
So overall I dont think that 118 118 Money treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr S complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr S. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman