DRN-3651643
The complaint
Mr M complains on behalf of the estate of his late mother, Mrs M, that Lloyds Bank General
Insurance Limited (Lloyds) declined a claim for theft under her home building insurance
policy.
For ease of reading I will refer to Mr M as the complainant in my decision.
What happened
Mrs M held a building insurance policy with Lloyds for a number of years. She moved to a
nursing home where she lived permanently from March 2019. The insurance cover was
renewed for the 2019/2020 and 2020/2021 policy years.
Mrs Ms property was burgled in March 2021 and a claim was submitted to Lloyds. Lloyds
declined the claim and cancelled the policy back to March 2020. It says it wasnt made
aware that Mrs M no longer lived at the property. Had it known its underwriting criteria
means it would only have provided cover for 12 months from the date it became unoccupied.
Mr M didnt think this was fair. He explained that his brother had lived at the property for two
days a week since Mrs M moved to the nursing home. He says this meets the criteria set out
in the policy terms for the property being occupied. Mr M says he doesnt agree with Lloydss
argument that his brother doesnt meet the definition because he lives elsewhere.
Lloyds didnt change its decision, so Mr M referred the complaint to our service. Our
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She thought Lloyds had applied its underwriting
criteria fairly when making its decision. She didnt think it unreasonable for it to consider the
property as unoccupied in the circumstances described.
Mr M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read the policy documents sent to Mrs M at the renewal. This says that before the
policy renews, she should check that the cover is still right for her needs. It also says that
she should let Lloyds know if anything has changed.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) included with the renewal documents
under What are my obligations? says:
You must tell us if any of the answers you gave to the questions you were asked when you
took out your policy change during the insurance period such as:
Your home is to become unoccupied.
Under the section What is not Insured the IPID says:
If your home is unoccupied for more than 30 days in a row, you will not be covered for
malicious damage, escape of water or theft.
I think this information is clear that if the property was unoccupied Mrs M needed to tell
Lloyds. And that cover wasnt provided for certain events.
Mr M doesnt dispute that Lloyds wasnt made aware of the change in circumstances. But he
argues the property wasnt unoccupied as described by the policy terms. The policy terms
under General Conditions say:
Changes you must tell us about
Your home is to become unoccupied for more than 30 days in a row;
Someone other than you and your family is going to live in your home.
Under the section Words and phrases with special meanings it says:
Unoccupied: Not lived in by you or a member of your family for more than 30 days in a row.
Please note, a property will only be considered occupied if it is lived in by you or a member
of your family and contains essential items for normal living purposes, for example cooking
appliances, sanitary fittings and beds.
In its letter to Mr M in May 2021 Lloyds says:
Whilst we appreciate that your brother has been staying at the property 2 nights a week,
this does not deem the property occupied.
It goes on to quote the policy definition copied above. And says:
Your brother would not be included within this definition as he does not normally live with
your mother as he lives elsewhere.
Also:
I have noted your comments yesterday that your brother was living permanently at your
mothers house prior to her moving into a nursing home and I have queried if this would
make any difference and at present, I believe it would not as he had a permanent home
elsewhere.
Mr M disputed that his brother living at two addresses didnt meet the policy definition of an
occupied property. He says his brother and his partner lived at the insured addressed full
time in the period from December 2018 to March 2019. This was prior to his late mother
moving to the nursing home. After the move, he stayed at the property two nights a week. Mr
M says because his brother owns another house doesnt mean he wasnt living at the
insured property as well.
Lloyds responded to say it cant expand on the reasons it had already provided as to when a
property is determined to be unoccupied. It refers to its underwriting rules that determinewhy it decided to cancel the policy from March 2020. In its final complaint response Lloyds
says it hasnt received documents that substantiate Mr Ms brothers infrequent occupancy at
the insured address.
Mr M refers to Lloydss visit to the insured property. He says it has seen that the property
contains essential items for normal living purposes as required under the policy definition
for it to be considered occupied. He says the bank statement and driving licence information
Lloyds requested for his brother are registered to the property he shares with his partner. Mr
M doesnt think this shows that his brother wasnt living at the property. He also refers to the
electricity and gas bills that he supplied for the insured property from the past two years. He
says this supports that the property was occupied.
I have thought about the policy definition of an occupied property and whether Lloyds view
is fair. Specifically, that the insured property was left unoccupied from March 2019. But I
dont think its view is fair.
Its for Lloyds to demonstrate that a policy term exists that excludes a claim from being
accepted. In this case it says Mr Ms brother cant have been living at the property under its
policy definition. In its response to our service Lloyds says that the purpose of the policy is to
cover the policyholder and their family members who live at the property. It says Mr Ms
brother lives somewhere else and therefore cannot live at both properties.
I acknowledge Lloyds comments. But I dont agree that its not possible for a person to live at
two different addresses. Lloyds agrees that Mr Ms brother was staying at the property, but
disputes this constitutes him living there.
Mr Ms brother is part of the late Mrs Ms family. I dont think this is in dispute. Based on him
staying at the property two nights a week, the property wasnt left unoccupied for more than
30 days in a row. So, I dont think in these circumstances the policy definition supports the
insured property having been unoccupied.
I have seen the underwriting information Lloyds provided in relation to its rules around when
a property is unoccupied. I cant share this information with Mr M, as its commercially
sensitive. But I dont think this supports Lloyds view that the property was unoccupied under
the policy terms either.
I have read the witness statement Mr M provided to Lloyds after the burglary. In this he
states that his brother stayed at the property, about twice a week. This information has
been consistent throughout the claim and the complaint. I have no reason to dispute Mr Ms
testimony.
Lloyds doesnt dispute Mr Ms comments that the insured property contains essential items
for normal living purposes, as specified in the policy definition of an occupied property. Its
argument is that Mr Ms brother lives somewhere else and cannot live at both properties. But
this isnt a definition supported by the policy terms or the underwriting information it supplied.
Having considered all of this I dont think Lloyds was fair when declining this claim for the
reason it gave. Because of this it should reconsider the claim under the remaining terms of
Mrs Ms policy without relying on the policy exclusion that the property was unoccupied.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint and Lloyds should:
reconsider the late Mrs Ms claim under the remaining policy terms and conditions.I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Lloyds says it accepts my findings as set out in the provisional decision. 
Mr M says he is satisfied with my conclusions. He adds that should Lloyds wish for more 
evidence of his brothers occupation of his late mothers property the neighbours can be 
interviewed in order to verify his claims. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr Ms comments that Lloyds can obtain further evidence about his brothers 
occupation of the property from the neighbours. However, in my provisional decision I said I 
didnt think it was fair for Lloyds to rely on the policy exclusion that the property was 
unoccupied. So, although I acknowledge Mr Ms comments, I dont think its necessary for 
the occupation of the property to be considered further. As I explained in my provisional 
decision, I think its fair that Lloyds reconsiders the claim based on the remaining policy 
terms without reliance on the occupation exclusion. 
Having considered the responses, neither party has made further submissions or provided 
further evidence that require a change to my provisional decision. So, my final decision is the 
same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited should:
reconsider the late Mrs Ms claim under the remaining policy terms and conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs 
M to accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman