DRN-3318515
Complaint
Mr B (trading as S) is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC is holding him liable for a payment he 
didnt make.
Background
Mr B has an account with Lloyds. In June 2021, a payment was made from that account to 
Mr Bs son. The payment was for £1,400 and Mr B says he didnt make it or consent to it. Mr 
Bs son was able to send most of the money back. But because his account was overdrawn 
at the time by £500, he couldnt reimburse Mr B in full. Mr B says that this payment wasnt 
made by him and thinks Lloyds should refund him in full. Hes also unhappy that Lloyds 
chose to close his account against his wishes. Hes argued that he has been treated unfairly 
because of his disability.
Lloyds didnt agree to uphold this complaint. Mr B wasnt happy with the response he 
received from Lloyds and so he referred his complaint to this service. It was looked at by an 
Investigator who didnt uphold it. The Investigator said that all the evidence suggested it was 
highly likely Mr B had made the payment or that someone else had done so with his 
consent.
Mr B was unhappy with the Investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to consider and issue a Final Decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
According to the relevant rules and regulations, Lloyds doesnt have to pay a refund to Mr B 
if he authorised the payment. 
I cant know for sure how this payment was made, so I need to come to a finding by looking 
at the evidence that is available and reaching a decision on the balance of probabilities. Mr B 
says that it wasnt him who made the payment. and Ive kept that in mind. However, I think 
the weight of the evidence does suggest that the payment was authorised.
Lloyds has provided a record of the logins to Mr Bs online banking and the IP address that 
was used to access the internet each time. This shows that the payment was made via an IP 
address that Mr B had used to access his online banking on several occasions previously. 
It's very unlikely this would happen if his account details had fallen into the hands of a 
fraudster. That would mean that the fraudster had accessed the internet using Mr Bs own 
internet connection. If a fraudster had taken control of his account, Id have expected to see 
a different IP address on the information log sent to us by Lloyds.
Secondly, the payment was authenticated using Mr Bs card and a card reader device. From 
what Mr B has told us, he didnt lose either of these items or give them to anyone else  so I 
think its highly unlikely a fraudster couldve taken them to make the payment. If theyd done 
so, I dont find it very likely that theyd return them to Mr B after using them. 
I know how strongly Mr B feels about his complaint and that my decision will be hugely 
disappointing. However, the evidence here does strongly suggest that he authorised the 
payment.
Mr B is also unhappy that Lloyds chose to close his account. Generally, Lloyds has the 
discretion to decide to stop offering banking facilities to a customer. The Investigator pointed 
out that the terms and conditions of the account allow it to do this and it can choose to close 
any customers account so long as it gives a fair period of notice before doing so. In this 
instance, I can see that Lloyds gave him 60 days notice before closing his account and so I 
dont find it acted unfairly.
Mr B has also argued that hes the victim of disability discrimination on the part of Lloyds. I 
cant make a finding that Lloyds has breached the Equality Act 2010  only the courts can do 
that. Nonetheless, Ive looked at how Lloyds has treated Mr B and borne in mind its 
obligations under that Act. Having done so, Ive not seen anything to support the claim that 
Lloyds has discriminated against Mr B based on his disability.
Overall, whilst Im sorry to have to disappoint Mr B, I dont find that there are any grounds to 
uphold his complaint.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman