DRN-3721865
The complaint
Mr P complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) hasnt refunded transactions he 
didnt authorise. 
What happened
Mr P states he signed up to a one-month trial on a dating website and cancelled the 
membership around ten days later. But the dating site took two further payments from his 
Sainsburys credit card which he had used to sign-up. 
Sainsburys presented a chargeback when Mr P reported the matter to it, but the dating site 
(merchant) defended it. Mr P complained to Sainsburys after it decided not to pursue the 
matter further. It maintained its position on the chargeback but offered £25 compensation in 
recognition of making an error in its correspondence to him. 
Our investigator concluded that Sainsburys didnt act unfairly by not pursuing the 
chargeback further, given Mr P had been unable to evidence that hed cancelled his 
membership with the dating website in accordance with its terms and conditions. They also 
explained that a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) couldnt 
be considered as the amount in dispute was less than £100. The investigator also thought 
that the compensation offered was fair in the circumstances.
Mr P has asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary, he submits that the dating 
website is a scam and has made it difficult to cancel the membership (which he says he was 
ultimately able to do). He also complains that the dating sites terms are unfair under the 
relevant regulations. And Mr P is unhappy that Sainsburys returned the money back to the 
dating site following its response to the chargeback. He submits that Sainsburys shouldnt 
have done this and instead should have let the dating site decide if it wanted to prosecute 
him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, so not everything thats happened or been argued is set out above, Ive read and 
considered everything thats been provided. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Chargeback is not a legal right and theres no requirement for Sainsburys to present 
a chargeback. But I consider it good practice to attempt if theres a good reason to. 
And I dont think its unreasonable to pursue a chargeback where theres no prospect 
of success. 
The rules are set out by the particular card scheme  in this case MasterCard. Ive 
considered the relevant card scheme rules, and, in this case, it appears that the most 
appropriate chargeback reason code would be that relating to the transaction not 
being authorised by the cardholder. From the information Ive seen, Sainsburys 
presented a chargeback using that reason code. At the same time, it applied a 
temporary credit for the disputed amount to Mr Ps credit card account. Im therefore 
satisfied that it acted fairly in the steps it took.
The merchant defended the chargeback, which it was entitled to do. It was able to 
evidence that the transactions had been authorised. Mr Ps been unable to provide 
proof of cancelling the membership in accordance with the dating sites terms. In the 
circumstances, Im not persuaded that Sainsburys decision not to pursue the 
chargeback any further was unreasonable or unfair. Its important to note that when 
considering matters relating to a chargeback, Im deciding whether the actions of the 
card issuer (Sainsburys in this case) were fair and not the merits of the 
cardholder/merchant dispute.
Mr Ps unhappy that Sainsburys refunded the amounts to the dating site after it 
defended the chargeback. It might be helpful if I explain that when a chargeback 
dispute is raised, the card issuer temporarily credits the cardholders account while it 
awaits the outcome from the card scheme. If the merchant successfully defends the 
dispute, the chargeback outcome is communicated to the card issuer by the card 
scheme. At this point, if the card issuer decides not to pursue the dispute further, it 
reverses the temporary credit. So, its not the case that the original transaction was 
automatically reversed when the chargeback was presented. Or, that the funds were 
subsequently refunded to the merchant after they had been paid back into Mr Ps 
account. 
Given that the transactions were made using a credit card, Ive also considered 
whether a Section 75 claim is relevant. For a claim to be considered under Section 
75 of the Act, there are certain prerequisites that need to be met. One of them is the 
amount involved. For a claim to be considered valid, the single item price attached to 
the goods or service needs to be more than £100. The transactions Mr Ps disputing 
are just under £40. Unfortunately, this means that its not possible to consider a like 
claim against Sainsburys for the actions of the dating site.
I acknowledge that Mr P feels very strongly about the matter, and it is clear hes 
unhappy with the conduct of the dating site. But the complaint Im deciding is against 
Sainsburys, not the dating site. This service doesnt have jurisdiction to consider a 
complaint about the dating site, and so I cant comment on Mr Ps concerns about 
whether the contract terms are unfair. 
I understand that Sainsburys accidentally included information about another 
customer in its correspondence to Mr P. It has already acknowledged the mistake 
and offered £25 in recognition of this. As the investigator explained, its for the third 
party to raise concerns about any possible data breach. Having carefully considered 
everything, Im satisfied that the compensation Sainsburys has offered Mr P for the 
inconvenience this error caused him is fair.
In summary, despite my natural sympathy for the situation in which Mr P finds himself, I dont 
find that Sainsburys has acted unfairly or unreasonably in how it dealt with the chargeback. 
So, I wont be telling it to do anything further in this regard. And I consider the £25 
compensation already offered is fair in relation to the error made.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint as Sainsburys 
Bank Plc has already fairly resolved it. If it hasnt already done so, I require it to pay Mr P 
£25 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman