DRN-2088184
The complaint
Mr M complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) overcharged him for 
damage when he returned a car at the end of a finance agreement.
What happened
In October 2016 Mr M acquired a car funded with a hire purchase agreement. It was 3 years 
old and had done 11,000 miles. In January 2020 Mr M voluntarily terminated the agreement 
and the car was collected by an agent acting for VFS. The agent also carried out an 
inspection and created a report highlighting various areas of damage. This was done using 
the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidance. 
VFS sent Mr M an invoice for £588 plus VAT for the damages. He disputed this and FS 
removed charges of £195 ex VAT as the photographic evidence of certain allegedly 
damaged areas wasnt clear.
Mr M remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service where it was considered 
by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. Mr M said the car was six 
years old when it was returned and it had been subjected to forensic examination, including 
the use of a spectrometer to measure the thickness of the paint. 
VFS said it would remove the charges for an unsatisfactory repair to a rear door and for 
fixing an insecure door. Our investigator reviewed the report and photos and concluded that 
apart from one item all the damage fell outside fair wear and tear. The one item which she 
felt wasnt chargeable was an alleged unsatisfactory repair with the left front door.
VFS agreed, but Mr M did not and said he didnt believe the scratches were down to the 
primer and would easily polish out. He also thought the fact that the inspection was done 
and the car removed at the same time didnt give him time to rectify any defects or obtain a 
third-party assessment of the findings.
Our investigator explained that Mr M could have made the repairs prior to the collection of 
the car and he was able to challenge the inspectors assessment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Mr Ms frustration at having further charges imposed after he had returned 
his car. However, I do not consider I can uphold his complaint in full. I will explain why.
Mr M signed an agreement that he would maintain the car in good condition and that VFS 
was entitled to charge him for any damage which went beyond fair wear and tear. Deciding 
what constitutes fair wear and tear could be subjective, but the BVRLA guidelines set out in 
some detail what is deemed to be beyond fair wear and tear. 
I appreciate the car was some six years old when it was returned, but it had done only 
40,000 miles and I have taken these factors into account in my consideration of the reported 
damage. 
I have reviewed the report and the photographs and I am satisfied that the areas of damage 
as agreed by our investigator and VFS are all chargeable. Our investigator set out in some 
detail why she took that view and I can only say that I am in full agreement. I can see that 
the scratches do go down to the primer and will have required a proper repair. 
Putting things right
I consider that this complaint should be upheld in part and the business should issue a 
revised invoice.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to:
Waive the charge for the unsatisfactory repair as per image 3.
Issue a new invoice with the outstanding balance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman