DRN-3513731
The complaint
Mr M and Ms M complain they were mis-sold a mortgage product by Barclays Bank UK PLC 
as they were unaware the product had an early repayment charge (ERC) and mortgage exit 
fee.
What happened
Mr M and Ms M arranged a new product on their existing Barclays mortgage in August 2019. 
In June 2021 Mr M and Ms M redeemed their mortgage and as part of this process they say 
they first became aware the product had an ERC and mortgage exit fee.
Mr M and Ms M complained to Barclays in June 2021. They said they hadnt been made 
aware when arranging the new product in 2019 that it had these charges and fees; and that 
they wouldnt have agreed to a product with an ERC had they known. Barclays didnt uphold 
their complaint. 
Our investigator reviewed the evidence and didnt uphold the complaint. He said Barclays 
had provided Mr M and Ms M with a mortgage offer in 2019 when they arranged the new 
product. He considered the mortgage offer set out the associated terms and conditions of 
the product; including details of the ERC and mortgage exit fee. He accepted that Mr M and 
Ms M said they didnt receive the document in the post, but he said it was correctly 
addressed and wasnt returned; so, he considered it more likely than not Barclays did send 
the document, and therefore it had taken reasonable steps to make Mr M and Ms M aware 
of the charges and fees of the product.
Mr M and Ms M responded to say they disagreed. In summary, they maintained their 
position that the mortgage offer document in 2019 wasnt received and as such they were 
unaware of the ERC and mortgage exit fee; and had they known they wouldnt have taken a 
product with an ERC as they hadnt previously. 
Mr M and Ms M asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Ive considered whether I think Barclays did what it needed to in order to make Mr M 
and Ms M reasonably aware of the terms of the mortgage product approved in August 2019. 
And having done so, I think it did. 
I say this because Ive seen Barclays didnt recommend this mortgage product to Mr M and 
Ms M; meaning it didnt assess their needs and requirements or provide them with advice on 
which product to take. Mr M and Ms M have said they discussed and agreed the mortgage 
by phone with an in-branch mortgage advisor. 
I asked Barclays to provide details regarding the sale of the product. Its said it cant locate 
any phone calls or phone notes relating to the conversation Mr M and Ms M refer to. It has 
said that a mortgage appointment was booked in September 2019 after the product transfer 
in August 2019, but this was in relation to a general mortgage enquiry and not a product 
switch. Its also confirmed its records indicate the product transfer was completed by Mr M 
and Ms M rather than a member of staff, based on the sales channel recorded on its 
systems, which Ive seen. 
Based on this information, I consider it more likely, on balance, that Mr M and Ms M 
completed this product transfer themselves. Thats not to say they didnt discuss mortgage 
products with Barclays, but I consider it more likely that these would have been general 
conversations placing Mr M and Ms M in an informed position. So, it was then for Mr M and 
Ms M to review and understand the products available to them, together with their 
associated terms and conditions including any fees and charges, and apply for the product 
they considered best met their needs and requirements. 
Mr M and Ms M have said had they been aware the product had an ERC they wouldnt have 
proceeded with it  and that they hadnt previously had a product with an ERC which further 
supports their testimony.
Barclays has provided this service with Mr M and Ms Ms 2013 mortgage offer which details 
the applicable mortgage exit fee due at redemption in 2021. On review Ive seen the product 
Mr M and Ms M arranged at that time had an associated ERC if it was repaid early. So, while 
I dont distrust Mr M and Ms Ms recollections of previous events, the evidence doesnt 
support their testimony when they say they wouldnt have selected a product with an ERC; 
as they had in fact done so previously. 
Mr M and Ms M have said they didnt receive the mortgage offer in 2019. Theyve said this is 
why they werent aware of the ERC and mortgage exit fee before redeeming their mortgage 
in June 2021. Theyve provided a copy of a letter they did receive around that time which 
confirmed the new product theyd selected, together with the change to their contractual 
monthly payment. However, this document made no reference to the ERC or mortgage exit 
fee. 
Ive reviewed the 2019 mortgage offer and seen it was correctly addressed to Mr M and 
Ms M. Barclays hasnt told us the document was returned undelivered; and Mr M and Ms M 
havent made us aware of any concerns they had around that time with post being delivered 
to them. And they had received other correspondence from Barclays about the product 
change. On balance, I think it more likely Barclays did send the mortgage offer and therefore 
it took reasonable steps to make Mr M and Ms M aware of the ERC and mortgage exit fee. 
This is further supported, as Ive found above, that this was an execution only sale so it was 
for Mr M and Ms M to be aware of the product terms and conditions before progressing.
Ive found it more likely than not that on balance, Barclays took reasonable steps to make Mr 
and Mrs M aware of the details of the product and to bring the ERC and mortgage exit fee to 
their attention before they took out the new product. So, Ive gone on to consider what 
Barclays ought reasonably to have done when Mr M and Ms M redeemed their mortgage. 
Section seven of the 2019 mortgage offer is titled Early repayment and states:
Early repayment charges are payable on this mortgage until 31 July 2021 as follows.
1% of the loan amount 
(amount you would repay if the loan is redeemed during the date ranges below) 
01/09/2019 to 31/07/2021 - £3,641.00.A Mortgage Exit fee is payable if you repay the mortgage in full (as detailed in the Offer 
document issued when you originally took the loan).
Im satisfied Barclays clearly set out the ERC payable if Mr M and Ms M looked to redeem 
their mortgage before 31 July 2021; and it fairly applied this charge when they redeemed 
their mortgage in June 2021. 
The 2019 mortgage offer refers to the previous 2013 mortgage offer for details of the 
mortgage exit fee. Within the 2013 mortgage offer (where the mortgage exit fee is referred to 
as a final repayment charge) under section eight titled What fees must you pay? it states:
Final repayment charge (Payable on final repayment of the mortgage and is non-
refundable) - £80.00.
So, Im satisfied Barclays fairly applied the £80 mortgage exit fee when Mr M and Ms M 
redeemed their mortgage. 
As Ive found Barclays fairly applied the ERC and mortgage exit fee when Mr M and Ms M 
redeemed their mortgage, Im not recommending it needs to take any further action in 
resolution of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr M and Ms Ms 
complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman