DRN-2891241
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that AWP P&C SA declined a claim he made on his travel insurance policy.
Although he is being represented in this complaint, Ive referred to Mr D throughout as he is 
the policyholder. 
What happened
In early March 2020, Mr D booked and paid for a boat to charter. He was due to collect the 
boat from a European city on 3 April 2020 and he was due to disembark the boat on 10 April 
2020 (the trip). Hed booked the boat via a tour operator (the tour operator) and had 
separately arranged and paid for his flights directly with the airline.
On 2 March 2020  three days before his booking had been confirmed with the tour operator 
- Mr D took out a standard, single trip travel insurance policy, which covered Europe 
(including Morocco, Israel, Egypt and Turkey) underwritten by AWP (the policy) to cover the 
trip.
The trip didnt go ahead because the airline cancelled the flight abroad at the end of March 
2020 as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) 
advised against all but essential international travel on 17 March 2020. That guidance 
remained in place at the time the flight abroad was cancelled and when Mr D was due to 
travel abroad at the beginning of April 2020.
In around May 2020, the tour operator agreed to refund Mr D certain costs including damage 
waiver, a starter park, a boat cleaning fee and administration fee totalling £351. However, 
relying on its terms and conditions, the tour operator said it wouldnt be offering a refund of 
the £835 Mr D had paid to charter the boat for a week as this charge was non-refundable. 
However, it did say Mr D could reschedule the charter to alternative dates/location. Mr D 
said the trip was for a special event and couldnt commit to another date. 
When the tour operator didnt refund the amount hed paid to charter a boat, Mr D made a 
claim on the policy for £835 (the claim). He didnt make a claim for the cost of the flights as 
he says the airline refunded those costs in full. 
AWP declined the claim because the reason which led to his trip being cancelled wasnt 
covered under the terms and conditions of the policy. It said the cancellation section of the 
policy listed specific reasons for which AWP would provide cover, and the circumstances 
surrounding Mr Ds claim didnt fall within those reasons. 
Mr D didnt think that was fair, so complained to our Service. 
After the complaint had been referred to our Service, AWP offered to pay half the claim 
(£417.50) without admission of liability, which was accepted by Mr D. But Mr D continued 
with his complaint as he says AWP should pay the claim in its entirety. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Ds complaint. Although, the trip was cancelled for a reason not 
listed in the cancellation section of the policy terms, there was also an exclusion in the policy 
limiting cover if hed travelled against the advice of the FCO. So, our investigator didnt think 
it was fair and reasonable for AWP to decline the claim for the reason it did. She concluded 
that it would be fair and reasonable for AWP to treat the claim as covered under the 
cancellation section of the policy. And she recommended AWP assess the remainder of the 
claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
AWP didnt agree. It said:
Travel insurance, or any kind of insurance, will not cover every eventuality and its 
impossible to list every single exclusion. The Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID) and policy documents clearly list the events that AWP covered for 
the premium paid. 
After a policy is bought, full details are sent to the customer, and its their 
responsibility to ensure that the policy meets their needs. And if not, there is a 14-day 
cancellation period in place.
AWP were right to decline the claim on the basis that the customer had no 
cancellation cover for the situation that arose or wouldnt have been covered if Mr D 
had decided to travel. Given that the pandemic had been announced by then, Mr D 
wouldnt have been able to travel even if hed wanted to. And this matter should be 
reviewed on what happened rather than what couldve happened, and what is listed 
as covered by the policy Mr D chose to purchase.

This complaint has now been passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator also 
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint. 
I uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons set out by our investigator in her view 
dated 21 May 2021. 
The IPID:
The IPID provided to us by AWP says at the top of page 1 that:
This document only provides a basic summary of policy cover. The full terms and 
conditions of the contract are shown on the policy document, which you should read 
carefully to ensure you have the cover you need.
Under the heading What is insured? the IPID says: 
Cancelling/cutting short your journey  up to £2,000 in total for lost pre-paid travel 
and accommodation costs.
And, under the heading, Where am I covered, on page 2 of the IPID it says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Travel Advice 
Unit of the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health 
Organisation has advised against travel, unless agreed otherwise with the insurer.
The policy terms and conditions:At page 17 of the policy terms and conditions, and subject to the remaining terms of the 
policy, AWP sets out that it will pay a claim, if a trip in cancelled as a result of the following:
 1. The death, accidental bodily injury, illness, compulsory quarantine on the orders 
of a treating doctor, redundancy that qualifies for payment under current redundancy 
legislation, cancellation of leave for British Forces, police or government security 
staff, summoning to jury service or witness attendance in a court of you or your 
travelling companion.
2. The death, serious injury or illness of: a close relative, or the person with whom 
you intend to reside at the holiday or journey destination, or dependant business 
partner; of you or your travelling companion which necessitates the presence of the 
person concerned.
3. Hi-jack.
4. Adverse weather conditions making it impossible for you to travel to initial point of 
departure at commencement of outward journey.
5. Major damage or burglary at your home or place of business which at the request 
of an emergency service requires your presence.
The general exclusions are set out at pages 13 and 14 of the policy terms and conditions. It 
says at clause 10 (on page 14) that the following isnt covered under the policy:
any claim directly or indirectly caused by, arising or resulting from, or in connection 
with
 You travelling to a country, specific area or event to which the Travel Advice unit 
of the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health Organisation 
has advised against all travel or all but essential travel, unless agreed by or on behalf 
of the insurer.
Ill refer to this as the FCO exclusion. 
Was it unreasonable for AWP to decline the claim? 
I think its fair and reasonable for AWP to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation 
section of the policy in this particular case because: 
Mr Ds trip was effectively cancelled because of the global impact of the Covid-19 
pandemic. Thats not something that is covered under the terms and conditions of the 
policy as its not a specific or listed insured event. However, taking into account the 
relevant law and industry guidelines, I dont think that leads to a fair and reasonable 
outcome in the circumstances of this case for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
If Mr D had travelled abroad he wouldnt have followed FCO advice. And because of 
the FCO exclusion he wouldnt have been covered by the policy terms and 
conditions. But, under the terms and conditions of the policy, changes in FCO 
guidance also arent covered by the policy. I dont think that was made sufficiently 
clear to Mr D in this case. 
Mr D wouldve needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in order to 
understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think that this 
information was brought to his attention in a prominent and transparent way. So, I 
dont think the combined effect of the policy terms was made sufficiently clear. 
I think this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr D and AWP. I think its unlikely that Mr D wouldve purchased the policy if hed realised that 
there was no cover under the policy if the FCO guidance changed after hed bought 
the policy. 
When making this finding, Ive taken into account what AWP says about Mr D being able to 
read the policy documents in full after he bought the policy and that he was able to cancel 
the policy within the cooling off period if he didnt think it met his requirements. 
However, a consumer would need to go further into the detail of the policy wording to 
establish whether they were able to claim if they had to cancel their trip because of changes 
to FCO guidance after theyd bought their policy. And even when a consumer reaches pages 
17 and 18 of the policys terms and conditions - which sets out the available cover if their trip 
is cancelled  a claim arising from a change in FCO advice isnt listed as a specific 
exclusion. Instead, this section is silent on whether this is something which is covered under 
the cancellation section of the policy. 
Further, I think the section on the policy explaining what will be covered if the consumer is 
unable to travel, on page 17, is in plain English. But the FCO exclusion isnt presented in the 
same place. Its earlier in the policy document at page 14. And the consumer would need to 
cross refer these sections of the policy to comprehend how these terms all interrelated to 
one another, and to understand the effect of the FCO exclusion.
So, I dont think it would be obvious to a consumer that there would be no cover under the 
policy if FCO advice changed in respect of their destination after they purchased their policy. 
And even with a cooling-off period, I think a consumer might not be able to easily understand 
the full effect of the policy. I think the way the cancellation section of cover and the FCO 
exclusion under the other sections of the policy are presented separately means their 
combined effect isnt clear in this case. 
And whilst I accept its not practical for the terms and conditions of a policy  or an IPID  to 
list every possible insured peril and/or every possible exclusion, the issue Im considering 
here is whether I think the specific exclusion from cover of cancellation claims arising from a 
change in FCO travel advice was clearly sign-posted to Mr D. For the reasons set out above, 
based on the policy documentation in this particular case, I dont think it was. 
Ive also thought about what AWP says about Mr D buying the policy at a time when Covid-
19 was widely known of and a pandemic was declared a few weeks later. However, Ive 
placed less weight on that because under the particular policy Mr D had bought, the policy 
didnt say that a claim wouldnt be covered if the trip was cancelled because of Covid-19. 
And further, the FCO hadnt at that stage advised against all but essential international 
travel. 
Putting things right
Im directing AWP to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation section of the policy. 
AWP should assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy 
including (but not limited to) the financial limits of the policy and the applicable excess. And 
taking into account the amount of £417.50 it has already paid to Mr D on a without prejudice 
basis, representing 50% of the amount claimed.  
  
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ds complaint against AWP P&C SA and direct it to put things right in the 
way Ive outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman