DRN-3237689
The complaint
Mrs C complains about AmTrust Europe Limiteds decision to decline a claim she made 
under the Family Legal Protection (FLP) section of a Home insurance policy.
AmTrust uses an agent to handle its FLP claims but as AmTrust remains responsible as the 
principal firm Ill simply refer to AmTrust throughout. 
What happened
Mrs C was served with a legal document alleging trees on her property were causing 
a nuisance to a neighbour. She had 21 days to register her intention to defend the 
matter and so made a claim for legal expenses cover to defend the allegation.
About seven working days later, and within the period she had to register her 
intention, AmTrust declined to cover her claim.
AmTrust said cover under Property Protection in Mrs Cs claim was limited to 
pursuing a legal action for nuisance and not defending such an action.
AmTrust said it had given its claim decision within 5 working days of telling Mrs C its 
claims team would be in contact with her to discuss her claim.
In summary, Mrs C is unhappy on two main aspects;
oThe length of time to tell her the claim wasnt covered as it was more than five 
working days from when she first submitted her claim.
oShe believes her legal defence costs are covered by the policy (as does her 
solicitor) mainly on the basis that the policy defines legal action, which 
includes the pursuit or defence of civil legal cases. Her solicitor said the claim 
concerns her defence of a court action for damages and specific performance 
arising from nuisance.
Our investigator was of the view that AmTrust had acted within the policy terms and 
didnt find that it covered the defence of a nuisance claim. And he didnt think the 
time taken to assess and decline the claim was excessive.
He explained the policy defined Legal Action as including the pursuit or defence of 
civil legal cases for damages and/or injunctions, specific performance. But he pointed 
out that this was a definition of a phrase and not a head cover.
Under the heads of cover offered in the policy, the investigator said it was clear that 
property protection was limited to the pursuit of claims and legal defence was 
limited to four specified instances, none of which covered Mrs Cs circumstances. He 
said defending a nuisance claim wasnt covered.
Mrs C disagreed saying she was more persuaded by her lawyers interpretation of 
the policy and the time taken to decline the claim breached the handling agents 
terms of agreement with the insurer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Among its duties, an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly, and must not 
unreasonably reject a claim. 
Decision to reject claim
The relevant section (4) of cover for an insured event appears as follows in the policy;
Property protection
What is covered?
Costs to pursue a Legal Action for: -
a) nuisance or trespass against the person or organisation infringing Your legal 
rights in relation to Your main home
b) damages against a person or organisation that causes physical damage to Your 
main home. The amount in dispute must be more than £250 and the damage 
must have been caused after You first purchased this insurance.
The main difference between the parties view on whether Mrs Cs claim is covered turns on 
the interpretation of this section and more particularly AmTrusts definition of Legal Action 
with the inclusion of defence. The definition states as follows;
The pursuit or defence of civil legal cases for damages and/or injunctions, specific 
performance; or
The defence of criminal prosecutions to do with Your employment. 
Damages and specific performance are remedies available to a court but not a cause of 
action in isolation. In this case the action against Mrs C is that of nuisance for which the 
neighbour apparently seeks the remedies of damages and/or specific performance. 
Mrs C has cover to pursue a legal action for nuisance against a person or organisation 
infringing her legal rights in relation to her main home. Mrs C hasnt asserted to AmTrust or 
us that her legal rights in relation to her main home are being infringed by her neighbour, 
rather its the neighbour asserting as such in their action against Mrs C. And even if the 
policy term was given a most generous interpretation to read as pursuing a defence, there 
remains the problem for Mrs C that there is no person or organisation infringing her legal 
rights in relation to a nuisance. To interpret the policy in a way required to cover the pursuit 
and defence of a nuisance claim against Mrs C requires significant amendment, such that it 
would give a completely different meaning and level of cover to its currently drafted form. For 
example, Costs of any Legal Action in relation to nuisance. That isnt the case with Mrs Cs 
policy, and Im satisfied the claim for legal expenses to defend a nuisance claim against 
Mrs C is not covered under the property protection section.
There is a head of cover for legal defence (section 7) but its restricted to four specific 
instances, none of which help Mrs C in her claim. In summary these are;- Prosecution against Mrs C in a criminal jurisdiction arising out of her work as an 
employee
- A civil action against her under section 13 Data Protection Act 1998 arising out of her 
work as an employee
- Civil proceedings against her for unlawful discrimination arising out of her work as an 
employee
- If an insured incident leads to her prosecution for an offence connected with the use 
or driving of a motor vehicle 
Handling of the claim
AmTrust gave its decision on the claim in around 7 working days from receiving notification 
(submitted on Sunday 13 December 2020 and decision given Tuesday 22 December 2020). 
In all the circumstances of the proceedings served on Mrs C with a 21 day reply deadline, 
Im satisfied AmTrust gave its decision promptly. 
While Mrs C believes AmTrusts claim handling agent didnt comply with a five working day 
response time agreed with the insurer thats not an issue that causes me a concern in so far 
as whether AmTrust handled the claim promptly.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman