DRN-2975925
The complaint
Mr D and Miss R complain that Ageas Insurance Limited have unfairly declined a claim they 
made on a legal expenses insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr D and Miss R hold a legal expenses insurance policy underwritten by Ageas. Ageas uses 
an agent to administer the policy and claims, so any reference to Ageas within my decision 
includes this agent.
Mr D and Miss R are in a legal dispute in respect of a property they own. The details arent 
relevant to what I need to look at for this decision, but the dispute has been ongoing for a 
number of years. They previously sought to claim on this policy, and when Ageas declined 
cover for the claim, approached our service. We said that Ageas should reconsider the claim 
in accordance with the terms and conditions.
Mr D and Miss R held alternative legal expenses insurance with a different insurer, which Ill 
refer to as D. Mr D and Miss R pursued the claim with D. That policy has a limit for the 
amount which will be paid, which is now nearly exhausted. So Mr D and Miss R approached 
Ageas with a view to claiming for their ongoing costs in relation to the legal proceedings. 
Ageas declined cover for the claim. It pointed to an exclusion in the policy which says that 
the policy wont provide cover if a separate insurance policy also provides cover. It says that, 
as Mr D and Miss R have pursued the claim with D then the policy exclusion applies. It also 
said that, as it hadnt been involved from the outset of the legal proceedings, it had been 
unable to assess whether the claim enjoyed reasonable prospects of success or review how 
the claim had progressed. 
Mr D and Miss R complained to Ageas and when it rejected their complaint, they 
approached our service. Our investigator didnt think Ageas had done anything wrong. As Mr 
D and Miss didnt agree, their complaints come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I previously issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In this, I concluded that Ageas 
hadnt acted reasonably in declining cover for the claim.
In this provisional decision, I said that the evidence available to me was that the policy Mr D 
and Miss R hold with Ageas and the one they hold with D contain similar escape clauses, 
which in effect say that neither policy will provide cover if another insurance policy provides 
cover for the same matter. 
While, on the face of it, Ageas could rely on this escape clause to deny cover for the claim, I 
needed to consider whether it was fair and reasonable for it to do so here. I also referred to 
various legal precedent which says, in essence, that where two insurance policies which 
provide cover for the same risk both contain escape clauses like this, they cancel each other 
out.
I concluded that this was a fair way to look at this. I thought that if both insurers were able to 
exclude cover on the basis that another policy exists, a policyholder would be unable to 
make a successful claim even though theyd taken out insurance which should provide 
cover.
Even though D hadnt sought to invoke the escape clause when accepting the claim, I didnt 
think this was relevant. I didnt think it was reasonable for Ageas to rely on the escape 
clause when declining the claim.
I also rejected Ageas alternative argument for declining cover, which was that it hadnt had 
the opportunity to review cover during the course of the claim with D to assess whether it 
was proportionate to continue funding Mr D and Miss Rs legal action. I noted that D would 
have been carrying out assessments as to the proportionality and prospects of success of 
their claim and even if Ageas had been involved from the outset, it wouldnt have been 
practical to expect both insurers to be conducting reviews of this nature throughout the life of 
the claim.
I said that to put things right, Ageas should reconsider the claim in accordance with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. I said that nothing Id said precluded Ageas 
from carrying out assessments into the prospects of success of Mr D and Miss Rs claim or 
the proportionality of continuing with the legal action.
Mr D and Miss R responded to my provisional decision, saying they had no further comment 
to make other than agreeing with my findings and proposed directions to Ageas. Ageas 
didnt respond to the provisional decision.
Even though no further information has been provided, or anything provided to challenge my 
findings or reasons, I have reviewed my findings. I remain satisfied that this is a reasonable 
outcome to the complaint and that what Ive said Ageas needs to do to put things right is fair.
 My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. In order to put things right, Ageas Insurance 
Limited must reconsider Mr D and Miss Rs claim in accordance with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman