DRN-3477523
The complaint
Mr T and Ms K complain about how HSBC UK Bank Plc handled their application for a 
mortgage.
 
What happened
Mr T and Ms K had a mortgage with a previous lender. The mortgage had a fixed rate 
product which was due to end on 14 August 2020.  
In March 2020, Mr T and Ms K contacted a broker to enquire about when they could begin 
the process to re-mortgage. The broker explained that the process would start approximately 
three months before the end of fixed rate product  so at the end of April 2020 began the 
process to re-mortgage for Mr T and Ms K.
The broker submitted an application to HSBC on 28 May 2020. Mr T and Ms K say they 
were contacted by a surveyor around 30 May 2020 to arrange a valuation. However, the 
surveyor had a different address (Property A) to the property which they wanted to re-
mortgage (Property C). HSBC were informed of the discrepancy and contacted the broker on 
4 June 2020 informing them that the surveyor had advised the address for the property was 
incorrect  it asked the broker to submit an application amendment form with the correct 
property address. 
On 5 June 2020, the broker submitted the amendment form with an updated property 
address (Property B). HSBC contacted the broker on 9 June 2020 to let them know that the 
previous address (Property A) is still reflected on its system for Mr T and asked that he go 
into branch to change the address. 
The valuation was completed on the 23 June 2020 with an address for Property B and Mr T 
and Ms K requested a copy  which they say they never received. HSBC approved the 
application and issued its mortgage offer for Property B on 17 July 2020. It also instructed 
solicitors the same day to act for both HSBC and Mr T and Ms K. 
The solicitors contacted Mr T and Ms K by text message on 20 July 2020 asking them to 
register on their online portal for communication purposes. Mr T and Ms K requested that the 
solicitors correspond by post, but they say this was refused even though the solicitors later 
sent its portal introduction pack by post on 24 July 2020. The broker also contacted HSBC 
on 20 July 2020 to inform it the address on the cover letter of the mortgage offer, which was 
still Property A, was incorrect. 
On 22 July 2020, the solicitors wrote to Mr T and Ms K via the portal requesting the title 
information for the property  this was addressed to Property B. The letter explained that the 
Land Registry showed their property wasnt registered. Mr T and Ms K provided the title 
information to the solicitors by telephone. 
On 29 July 2020, Mr T and Ms K say they received correspondence from the solicitors by 
post to the Property B address. The correspondence included an introductory pack enclosing 
various documents, a letter providing their security code for the online portal and a letter 
stating the solicitors enquiries at the Land Registry showed the property was not registered  
it also requested that Mr T and Ms K provided the title deeds. 
The solicitors contacted HSBC on 4 August 2020 explaining that Mr T and Ms K had 
confirmed the address for the property was Property C. They requested that HSBC amend 
its records and take appropriate action. On 5 August 2020, HSBC issued a new mortgage 
offer for Property C. HSBC wrote to the solicitors on 10 August 2020 confirming they had 
amended the property address to Property C and issued a new mortgage offer. 
On 17 August 2020 the solicitors, via the portal, requested the details of the freeholder as 
Mr T and Ms Ks lease required the freeholder be notified of any change in circumstance  in 
this case the change of mortgage provider. Mr T and Ms K responded the same day with the 
required information and the solicitors wrote to the freeholder on 24 August 2020 asking 
where to send the notice of change. 
Due to the confusion with the property address, the solicitors required further information 
following the identity checks for Ms K, so requested this on 21 August 2020. Once the 
information was received the solicitors continued with the leasehold and identity checks, 
which were successfully passed on 2 September 2020.    
The solicitors received an updated redemption statement from the solicitor on 3 September 
2020. They wrote to Mr T and Ms K the same day confirming a completion date of 
11 September 2020. The mortgage completed with funds being release on 11 September 
2020. 
Unhappy with how their mortgage application was handled, Mr T and Ms K raised a 
complaint. HSBC responded saying the broker had provided an incorrect address for Mr T 
and Ms K. It said once it was made aware of the issues it amended its offer documents. It 
explained that the delay in the solicitors contacting Mr T and Ms K was due to the confusion 
caused by the incorrect address and this led to difficulties finding the title information for the 
property. HSBC said the identity information required by the solicitors for Ms K was for the 
solicitors to satisfy their own regulatory requirements with regards to identity checks. It 
explained that the solicitors were asking for proof of address on an incorrect address due to 
the information inputted by the broker. HSBC agreed it was poor service that the solicitors 
didnt send the mortgage deed as agreed, emailed an incorrect email address, and didnt call 
Mr T and Ms K back when they said they would. 
HSBC explained the £114.00 charged was for checking the lease and is part of the checks 
solicitors have to do  and it was noted in the initial paperwork sent by the solicitors. It also 
said it costs £12 for title information documentation and there would have been an option to 
request the documentation in the initial questionnaire from the solicitors. HSBC recognised 
there had been several breakdowns in communication with the solicitors, but the delays 
were largely caused by the incorrect information initially provided by the broker. It offered 
£200 for any upset and inconvenience caused. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint and didnt think HSBC needed to do anything 
further in the circumstances. They said the broker had inputted incorrect details for Mr T and 
Ms Ks application  this being the mortgage property address and Mr Ts email address  
and this had caused delays with the application. They explained there was no requirement 
for Mr T and Ms K to be provided with the valuation for the property and that the solicitors 
can choose  in this case via a portal  how to communicate with its customers. They 
recognised HSBC had sent information to an incorrect email address but said they couldnt 
hold HSBC responsible as it had done so using information provided to it by the broker. They said they didnt think it was unreasonable for the solicitor to want to ensure all 
documents were correct  given the conflicting information between what was provided and 
what was on the title documents. Therefore, they felt the £200 offered for the poor service 
was fair in the circumstances. The Investigator also explained that issues relating to how the 
solicitors handled conveyancing, data breaches, and delays would need to be referred to the 
relevant regulatory body. 
Mr T and Ms K disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. In summary, they said 
HSBC and the solicitors should have noticed something was wrong with the email address  
and because they didnt, private information was sent to an unknown third party. They 
questioned the incorrect addresses explaining it clearly had nothing to do with the broker 
and said that it caused delays in the application. Mr T and Ms K also said that the solicitors 
were retained by HSBC and had they been their solicitors, they would have followed the 
relevant complaints procedure.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to be clear that my decision wont address every point made by either Mr T and Ms K 
or HSBC. I mean no discourtesy by this and I would like to reassure both parties that Ive 
carefully considered all the evidence provided. But my decision will address what I see to be 
relevant in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
Firstly, I would like to address the extent of my consideration of the solicitors actions. The 
solicitors were acting for both HSBC and Mr T and Ms K during the application process  
albeit the majority of actions they undertook were for HSBC. Im able to consider the actions 
of the solicitors whilst acting on behalf of HSBC, and this is why Im broadly going to 
consider what theyve done throughout the application process.  
Ive been provided with a copy of the application the broker submitted on behalf of Mr T and 
Ms K on 28 May 2020. This incorrectly listed Mr T and Ms Ks residential address and 
mortgage property address as Property A. Ive also been provided with a copy of the 
application amendment form sent by the broker on 5 June 2020, this requested the 
mortgage property address be changed to the incorrect address of Property B  leaving the 
residential address as Property A. The application also gave an incorrect email address for 
Mr T. 
The incorrect mortgage property and residential addresses submitted on the application has 
led to confusion at later stages of the application  leading to delays with HSBC issuing a 
mortgage offer with the correct address and the solicitors carrying out the required checks 
and work they needed to on behalf of HSBC. Both HSBC and the solicitors were acting off 
the information it was initially provided with when processing the application and Ive seen 
nothing to suggest they should have questioned this information before they were informed it 
was incorrect by Mr T and Ms K. Its not unreasonable for a bank to rely on information 
provided to it by a broker, as ultimately the broker is the one having the conversations with 
the customers making the application. 
Once HSBC and the solicitors were provided with the correct mortgage property and 
residential addresses by Mr T and Ms K, I think they quickly rectified any issues with the 
application and progressed things in a timely manner. HSBC issued an updated mortgage 
offer on 5 August 2020 (one day after being informed of the error with the address) and 
completion took place on 11 September 2020  within approximately 5 weeks  which is within the timescales I would have expected if all the information had been correctly 
submitted from the outset. 
I understand that Mr T and Ms K have made specific reference to the delay between the 
solicitors writing to them on 3 September 2020 and the completion date of 11 September 
2020. Having reviewed the information provided this was to allow for Mr T and Ms K to 
receive and review the proposed completion statement, allow time for the previous lender to 
clear payments already made, and for HSBC to receive and action the request for funds for 
the mortgage. Taking into consideration this period was approximately one working week, 
this timescale doesnt seem unreasonable.  
HSBC has explained the solicitors had to conduct further identity checks for Ms K in order to 
satisfy their own regulatory requirements. Due to the conflicting information with regards to 
the addresses and title information, it doesnt seem unreasonable that further checks were 
carried out to ensure all details were accurate. I appreciate this was likely an inconvenience 
for Mr T and Ms K, as they had already submitted all the required information, but the need 
for such checks stems from the initial incorrect information provided  something I cant hold 
HSBC or the solicitors responsible for. 
Ive reviewed the fees outlined in HSBCs final response for checking the lease and receiving 
the title documentation. They are clearly outlined as £114 and £12 respectively, so Im 
satisfied the information provided to Mr T and Ms K was correct. Ive also been provided with 
evidence to show that Mr T and Ms K didnt request, in the initial questionnaire from the 
solicitor, for the title documentation to be sent to them after the mortgage had completed.
Mr T and Ms K have also raised concerns about HSBC not providing them with a copy of the 
property valuation. There is no requirement for HSBC to provide Mr T and Ms K with a copy 
of the property valuation. The valuation is solely conducted for HSBC for mortgage purposes 
 in other words to determine whether the property is suitable security for a mortgage in line 
with their lending policy. 
I understand that Mr T and Ms K are also unhappy about documents and information being 
sent to an incorrect email address. As explained above, the address details HSBC and the 
solicitors were using were provided by the broker in the initial application and its not 
unreasonable that HSBC and the solicitors relied upon this information until they were 
informed of the error  as is what happened here. However, with regards to the incorrect 
email address, I dont think information has been sent to a random third party as Mr T and 
Ms K have suggested. I say this because Ive been provided with an email sent from the 
incorrect email address to the solicitors dated 19 August 2020. This email is from Mr T and 
informs the solicitors that he is no longer using the email account. So, whilst I can agree 
information was sent to an email address which was no longer in use, the email address 
belonged to Mr T  not a random third party.   
I note that Mr T and Ms K are unhappy they had to communicate with the solicitors via their 
online portal. I appreciate that it may not have been Mr T and Ms K preferred method of 
communication but its not for this service to determine how a business communicates with 
its customers during an application process. 
HSBC has offered Mr T and Ms K £200 for any upset and inconvenience caused. I think this 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstance, as I think it takes into account the breakdown in 
communication Mr T and Ms K experienced as well as the inconvenience caused by having 
an incorrect address used in their application. I appreciate that Mr T and Ms K say they have 
lost out financially because their mortgage reverted to the previous lenders standard variable 
rate, but I dont think this is something I can fairly hold HSBC responsible for. As I have said, 
HSBC were acting off incorrect information provided to it in the initial application, and once this was identified, it rectified the issue and progressed the application in a timely manner. 
Therefore, I cant fairly say its responsible for the delays caused.
 
My final decision
My decision is that the offer of £200 compensation offered by HSBC UK Bank Plc is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. If this hasnt already been paid, HSBC 
should arrange for this to be paid to Mr T and Ms K.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman