DRN-4187038
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc defaulted his credit account.
What happened
To briefly summarise: Mr C was living overseas and had a HSBC current account which he 
was using solely to make monthly payments to his HSBC credit account. Mr C lost the ability 
to access his accounts from overseas because his secure key ran out of battery and his 
telephone banking was blocked due to attempted fraud on his account. Mr C contacted 
HSBC about this and was told that he would need to visit a UK branch in person to verify his 
identity. But Mr C couldnt do this because he was overseas.
In January 2022, the monthly direct debit payment on Mr Cs credit account was returned 
unpaid, because Mr C didnt have sufficient money in his current account for it to be taken. 
HSBC sent letters to Mr C about this, but because they were sent to Mr Cs UK address, 
they werent received by Mr C. 
Further monthly credit account payments were missed, which led the account to fall into a 
position of multiple arrears. But Mr C wasnt aware of this because he couldnt access his 
accounts overseas and wasnt receiving the letters HSBC were sending to his UK address. 
And because the arrears on Mr Cs credit account continued to grow, HSBC issued a default 
notice to Mr Cs UK address in May 2022, and defaulted Mr Cs credit account the following 
month. Mr C wasnt happy when he learned of this, so he raised a complaint.
HSBC responded to Mr C and noted that hed spoken with them on the telephone in 
February 2022, at which time the arrears on the account had been explained to him and 
when Mr C had promised to clear the arrears in full in two days time  which he hadnt 
subsequently done. Because of this, HSBC didnt accept that Mr C hadnt been aware of the 
arrears on his account, and they didnt uphold his complaint. Mr C wasnt satisfied with 
HSBCs response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel HSBC had acted 
unfairly by administering Mr Cs accounts as they had. Mr C remained dissatisfied and noted 
that the person HSBC had spoken with in February had been his father, who hadnt relayed 
the information about his accounts to him. So, his complaint was escalated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont feel that HSBC have acted unfairly or made any error here in how 
theyve administered Mr Cs accounts, and so I wont be upholding this complaint.
Mr C has explained that he wasnt aware that his credit account was in arrears because he 
was overseas and didnt have access to his accounts from overseas so that he could 
monitor them. For instance, Mr C notes that his secure key ran out of battery, meaning that 
he couldnt access his HSBC accounts online. But HSBCs mobile phone app has allowed 
the use of a digital secure key, set up via the app, for several years now, such that a 
physical secure key is no longer required.
I also dont accept that Mr C wasnt able to access his accounts via telephone, given that 
HSBC repeatedly attempted to contact Mr C via telephone on the UK number he had left 
registered with them. Indeed, HSBC spoke with whom they thought was Mr C on two 
occasions on that number. 
Its now understood that the person HSBC spoke with in these two instances was Mr Cs 
father. But notably, on the first of these calls, Mr Cs father pretended to be Mr C and gave 
Mr Cs correct date of birth and post code to pass HSBCs security protocol, after which 
HSBC then proceeded to explain the status of Mr Cs account to the person they reasonably 
believed was Mr C. And I feel this confirms that HSBC were willing to speak with Mr C on the 
telephone, had he called them about his accounts  which HSBC have no record of him 
doing during the time payments were being missed and when his account was in arrears.
HSBCs system notes also record that the UK address Mr C gave to them as his registered 
address was in fact his parents address, but that all mail sent to that address is forwarded to 
him overseas by his parents. And HSBC sent account statements and missed payment 
letters to that address.
Furthermore, if Mr C couldnt view his HSBC accounts as he suggests, I feel it stands to 
reason that he would have made monthly payments to his current account of amounts 
greater than what he believed the credit account monthly payments would be  to mitigate 
against the possibility that his current account might run out of money to make the credit 
account payments. But Mr Cs current account statements show no evidence of such regular 
monthly credits to his current account. Rather, Mr C appears to have made irregular 
payments every three or four months of relatively small amounts  which werent enough to 
meet the payment requirements for his credit account and caused payments to be missed.
Ultimately, it was Mr Cs responsibility as the account holder to ensure that he was aware of 
the ongoing status of his current account and to have met the contractual monthly payment 
requirements of that account. This is regardless of whether Mr C was overseas or not. And 
as explained, I dont accept that Mr C couldnt access his HSBC accounts from overseas. 
And while Mr C may have arranged for mail and telephone calls to be received by his 
parents so that he could be kept updated about his account, it isnt HSBCs fault if that 
arrangement between Mr C and his parents didnt work for any reason.
Alternatively, I find it difficult to conclude that HSBC have done anything wrong or acted 
unfairly here. I say this because when Mr Cs credit account fell into arrears, they sent letters 
to the address Mr C had left with them as his registered address and made phone calls to 
the number Mr C had left with them as his registered number. And they spoke with a person 
on that number  Mr Cs father  who passed their security questions and pretended to be 
Mr C and to whom they gave all the relevant information about the status of the credit 
account and from whom they received a promise to pay that they reasonably believed had 
come from Mr C.
All of which means that it doesnt seem unfair to me that HSBC followed the account arrears 
process that they did here, which culminated in the defaulting of Mr Cs account in June 
2022  five months after the first payment was missed on Mr Cs credit account in January 
2022. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing HSBC to 
take any further or alternative action.I realise this wont be the outcome Mr C was wanting, but I hope that hell understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman