DRN-4036338
The complaint
Mr S complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) refuses to refund him losses after he fell 
victim to a scam.
Mr S was originally supported by a representative, but I understand he is now dealing with 
this case himself. 
What happened
Mr S says he met the scammer on a social networking platform, and he thought he was in a 
relationship with her. The scammer asked Mr S for £60,000 towards flights, hotels and 
personal expenses. Mr S was unable to send this amount in one payment, so the scammer 
agreed to accept whatever he could send over time. Mr S initially used cash and then direct 
payments from his Metro account, to credit an account he held with another financial 
business who Ill call W. He then paid the scammer through W. 
Between 2017 to 2022, Mr S says he sent £66,475 to the scammer. Including fees and 
charges, Mr S says he lost £66,888. Mr S became unwell and had a stay in hospital. While 
there, the scammer told Mr S that she needed more money from him. Mr S says at this point 
he was persuaded by doctors in hospital that he had been the victim of a scam. 
Mr S, with the help of his care worker, raised a complaint with Metro  explaining he had 
been the victim of a scam, and wanting Metro to refund the money he had lost. He said 
Metro had failed to contact him to discuss what these payments were for and ought to have 
protected him from falling victim to a scam. Mr S detailed a number of health issues he was 
suffering from and explained how distressed he was. 
Metro refused to refund the money Mr S had lost, saying that while it was sorry that he had 
fallen victim to the scam, Metro had done nothing wrong. 
Unhappy with its response, he referred the matter to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into what happened and didnt think Metro should have to return the money to Mr S. 
Mr S asked for an Ombudsman to review the matter re-iterating that he had been the victim 
of a scam, that he was vulnerable, and Metro was in a position to identify the scam and 
prevent him from falling victim to the scam. He also felt the scammer likely accepted small 
payments intentionally to avoid detection. As Metro had failed in its duty to protect him, he 
felt it should now refund the money he had lost. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I think it may be helpful to set out the following: 
Metro has an obligation to process the payments Mr S authorises it to make. 
Metro also has a duty to try to prevent Mr S from falling victim to a scam. 
Metro therefore needs to strike a balance between appropriately intervening in some 
payments to prevent scams, and not unnecessarily inconveniencing or delaying 
legitimate transactions. 
What this means is that Metro is expected to process any payments Mr S authorises, but it is 
also expected to monitor transactions. If any transactions are flagged as suspicious or 
unusual  Metro should take measures to prevent Mr S from falling victim to a scam. 
It may also be helpful to explain the following: 
Metro didnt scam Mr S and was not the perpetrator of his losses. 
As Mr S authorised the payments, the starting point is that he must bear the losses 
that arise from such payments. 
To uphold this complaint, and hold Metro liable for the losses instead of Mr S, Id 
need to be satisfied that: 
oMetro failed in its duty to protect Mr S in some way.
oIf Metro had instead done what it should have done, this either would have 
stopped the losses from occurring in the first place or helped to mitigate the 
losses once notified of the potential scam. 
Looking through Mr Ss statements, the transactions were for relatively small amounts 
although they were frequent. I havent seen a single transaction (or a collection of payments 
sent within a short period of time) that I think would have stood out as unusual or suspicious 
which ought to have triggered Metro into contacting him. And there were also no other 
concerning factors that were known to Metro that should have prompted an intervention from 
it. Mr Ss statements show he sent significant sums, but this was spread over many years  
and each transaction looked like usual spending on his account. I dont think its 
unreasonable that Metros systems didnt flag these transactions as unusual or suspicious. 
Like our investigator says, the transactions made from 2017 to 2022, were not significant 
enough, or unusual or suspicious in my view. So, I dont think they would have alerted Metro 
to something having gone awry. I understand Mr S feels that the scammer might have 
accepted smaller payments in order to avoid detection. And while this may be true, it doesnt 
change that, due to nature of the transactions, Metro didnt unreasonably miss an 
opportunity to identify that there was a scam or prevent the payments here. 
Having looked at all the evidence provided, I dont think there was anything happening on 
Mr Ss accounts that ought to have triggered an intervention from Metro. I also dont think 
Metro could have retrieved the money for him after it was alerted to the scam  so I dont 
think it could have mitigated his losses at this stage. 
I would like to explain that I do not disbelieve Mr S and do not underestimate the distress this 
has caused him. Im very sorry Mr S has lost this amount of money, but as Ive said above, 
Metro was not the perpetrator of the scam and I dont think it was ever reasonably presented 
with the opportunity to prevent the scam. So, as it couldnt reasonably have prevented the 
loss, I dont think its fair for it to be held liable for Mr Ss losses. 
My Final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023. 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman