DRN-4310372
The complaint
Mr B and Miss H are unhappy with how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has handled a claim 
under their legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy. 
Any reference to UKI includes the actions of its agents. For ease of reading, Ive referred to 
Mr B throughout my decision. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events. 
Mr B sought to bring a legal action against the builder of his new-build property 
because of alleged defects with how it had been built.
UKI - the underwriter of the LEI policy - accepted the claim and appointed one of its 
panel solicitors  who Ill refer to as S - to deal with the legal dispute. 
Mr B paid for and provided S with a snagging report to evidence the problems with 
his property. Mr B says he was advised by S to obtain a surveyors report as well but 
told that hed have to cover any upfront costs himself. 
S later advised the snagging and surveyor report wasnt court compliant. Unhappy, 
Mr B raised a complaint with UKI. UKI accepted S hadnt progressed his claim in a 
timely manner and so, it agreed to Mr B instructing his own solicitor. It also 
reimbursed the cost of the snagging report.
Mr Bs chosen solicitor  who Ill refer to as G  identified S hadnt complied with a 
time bar limitation deadline which meant Mr B wasnt able to bring a claim for breach 
of contract against the builder of his property. G advised he might be able to utilise 
the building guarantee provided to him when purchasing his property to have the 
defects resolved. 
Mr B complained to UKI. To recognise the stress hed experienced, UKI paid £300 
compensation. It advised Mr B to make a complaint to the relevant body if he was 
unhappy with the legal advice hed received. 
UKI subsequently withdrew cover saying there hadnt been a breach of contract in 
respect of the building guarantee. In addition, it said the policy doesnt cover claims 
arising from or relating to  loss or damage that is insured under another section of 
this policy or any other insurance policy  which it said applied as Mr B had cover 
under his building guarantee. It also agreed to reimburse Mr B the costs hed 
incurred by instructing a surveyor. 
Mr B remained unhappy and so, brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator 
considered it but didnt uphold it. 
Mr B disagreed, and so the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. From what Ive read, 
much of Mr Bs dissatisfaction is about how S handled his legal claim and the advice it 
provided. Whilst UKI might have appointed S, we dont hold insurers responsible for the way 
their panel solicitors carry out litigation on a day-to-day basis. Once the insurer appoints a 
solicitor, its role is limited to funding the fees and disbursements, and it doesnt have much 
control over how the claims are run  unless, for example, there are avoidable delays in 
keeping the policyholder informed on the progress of the claim and the insurer ought to have 
been aware. So, whilst I understand Mr Bs frustration with S - with it having missed the 
limitation date deadline, and the alleged misleading advice in respect of the surveyors report 
 this isnt something UKI can reasonably be held responsible for in the circumstances. 
I have however, seen that when UKI initially became aware of the problems Mr B said hed 
experienced with S, it agreed to him instructing a solicitor of his choice. This is what Id 
expect an insurer to do when relations between the policyholder and solicitor have broken 
down. And so, Im satisfied UKI took reasonable steps at an appropriate time.   
UKI has also paid £300 compensation to Mr B because it recognised that Ss failure to meet 
the limitation deadline caused him stress. Given UKI isnt responsible for how S litigated in 
respect of Mr Bs claim nor any legal advice it gave, I wouldnt consider it reasonable to 
direct UKI to cover any potential losses Mr B may have incurred by missing the deadline. So, 
I consider the amount of compensation its paid to be reasonable in the circumstances taking 
into account its responsibilities as the insurance provider.
UKIs decision to withdraw cover
G has said it will proceed with a claim under the building guarantee Mr B has to try and 
recover losses for the snagging issues and defects. Whilst G has said its in Mr Bs interest 
to be legally represented when doing so, UKI has said cover has been withdrawn because 
the policy wont cover loss or damage that is insured under another section of this policy or 
any other insurance policy. Secondly, there hasnt been a breach of contract in respect of 
the building guarantee, and so, there isnt an insured peril. 
Im satisfied the policy wording is clear on both parts. And as the parties accept the building 
guarantee is an insurance policy, I consider it reasonable for UKI to have relied on the above 
to withdraw cover.
UKI has advised that if Mr Bs claim through the building guarantee is unsuccessful, he could 
contact it to review the matter as a potential professional negligence claim against S. So, Ill 
leave that decision with Mr B. 
Conflict of interest 
UKI isnt a legal expert and so, is entitled to rely on the advice of an appointed legal expert 
when determining if a claim is covered by the policys terms and conditions. This is common 
practice with LEI claims  regardless of who the insurer is - and so, I dont consider UKI to 
have acted unfairly by doing so. UKI cant influence S advice as S  as a legal representative  has a duty to act with 
integrity and in line with its professional code of conduct. Whilst I appreciate Mr B considers 
S to have mismanaged his legal claim to limit the costs UKI has had to pay under the policy, 
I havent seen any persuasive evidence of this. 
Rather, UKI agreed to Mr B appointing his own independent legal expert  before it knew the 
limitation deadline had been missed - to take forward his legal claim. This action doesnt 
support his position that UKI was trying to absolve itself from paying legal fees. 
Other issues
Im aware a complaint was made about the surveyors fee and snagging report costs Mr B 
initially paid for based on Ss advice. UKI has now reimbursed these costs, and as I 
understand it, this is no longer in dispute. And so, theres no need for me to comment on this 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman