DRN-3924199
The complaint
Mr M complains that Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans (Shelby) gave him loans 
he couldnt afford to repay. Mr M says that had Shelby carried out more thorough checks it 
wouldve discovered he had a high level of debt and multiple payday loans.  
What happened
Mr M took two loans from Shelby, one in October 2019 and one in September 2021. A 
summary of his borrowing can be found in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalments 
monthshighest 
repayment 
each month
1 £300.00 30/10/2019 16/12/2019 3 £143.90
gap in lending
2 £200.00 03/09/2021 outstanding 6 £62.12
Mr M has had some difficulties repaying the final loan and Shelby says the final loan has 
been passed to a third-party collection agency to be collected. 
Shelby considered Mr Ms complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to 
provide these loans because it had carried out proportionate checks by asking Mr M for his 
income and expenditure information as well as carrying out credit searches. The results of 
these checks showed Shelby Mr M could afford his loan repayments. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr M referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. She concluded Shelby made a reasonable 
decision to provide them. But she did point out the loans were part of different lending chains 
given the gap between them. Therefore, she thought Shelby had carried out a proportionate 
check which showed the loan repayments to be affordable. 
Shelby hasnt acknowledged or responded to the adjudicators assessment. 
Mr M said he didnt agree with the outcome. He said had Shelby made better checks it 
wouldve seen details of recent defaults and a gambling problem. 
The adjudicator responded to Mr Ms comments explaining that she didnt think any recent 
defaults would need to be considered as Shelby was concerned with Mr Ms financial 
position at the time the loans were approved. She also didnt think Shelby needed to have 
verified the information he had provided and so it wouldnt have needed to have reviewed his 
bank statements. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Shelby had to assess the lending to check if Mr M could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Shelbys checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ms income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Shelby should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include:
Mr M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr M. As there were only two loans in 
two lending chains, the adjudicator didnt think this applied in Mr Ms case. 
Shelby was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr M was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ms complaint.
Loan 1
Before this loan was approved, Shelby asked Mr M for details of his income, which he 
declared to be £1,300 per month. Mr M as part of his application also declared outgoings of 
£110, which left Mr M with £1,190 of disposable income each month. 
As part of the application, Shelby overlaid what Mr M had declared about his expenditure 
with data from two different sources and made adjustments to the information. Firstly, it made adjustments using Office of National Statistics (ONS) data and secondly, from 
information from Mr Ms credit search (which Ill go into more detail below). 
Therefore, after the ONS data and credit search results were factored into the income and 
expenditure assessment  Shelby increased his expenditure to £728 per month. This still left 
around £572 per month for Mr M to make his monthly repayment of around £144. 
Before this loan was approved Shelby also carried out a credit search and it has provided a 
summary of the results it received from the credit reference agency. 
It is worth saying here that although Shelby carried out a credit search there isnt a 
regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. Therefore, its entirely 
possible that the information Shelby received may not entirely reflect the information Mr M 
may be able to view in his credit report. There could be for a number of reasons for this, 
such as Shelby only asking for certain pieces of information such as the number of active 
credit accounts. But what Shelby cant do is carry out a credit search and then not react to 
the to the information it received. 
Having reviewed the credit check results, there isnt anything in the results that wouldve 
indicated that Mr M was having current financial difficulties, for example it knew there wasnt 
any insolvency markers or debt management plans. However, it did know Mr M had one 
account marked as being in default for the value of £1,666 within the 12 months before this 
loan was approved. 
Shelby was also aware from the result that Mr M had one active short-term loan (which had 
been opened between 8 and 50 days before this loan) account but that was the only 
example of that type of credit being advanced within the six months leading up to the Shelby 
loan being advanced.  
In my view, there wasnt enough recent adverse credit file data to have led Shelby to either 
have carried out further checks or to have prompted it to have declined Mr Ms application.
There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led Shelby to 
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information
Mr M had provided. In my view, it wouldve been disproportionate for Shelby to have asked 
for Mr Ms bank statements at this time. 
Given it was early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for Shelby to have 
relied on the information Mr M provided which showed he had sufficient disposable income 
to afford the repayments he was committed to making. There also wasnt anything else to 
suggest that Mr M was having financial difficulties or that the loan repayments would be 
unsustainable for him. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Ms complaint about this loan.
Loan 2
There was then close to a two year gap between Mr M repaying loan one and returning for 
loan two. This was more than enough time to have passed for Shelby to have considered 
Mr Ms second loan application afresh. All this means is that Shelby could treat this loan as if 
Mr M was a brand-new customer. 
Shelby carried out the same sort of checks for this loan as it did for the first loan. Mr M 
declared income of £1,600 per month and Shelby knew he was still with the same employer. Outgoings were declared as being £980. Leaving more than sufficient amount of disposable 
income to afford the repayment, he was committed to making. 
After reviewing ONS data and the credit check results, Shelby increased Mr Ms outgoings to 
£1,152 per month. Which still left £448 per month in disposable income. Based solely on the 
income and expenditure information Shelby wouldve reasonably concluded the loan was 
affordable. 
A credit search was also carried out and once again, Shelby has provided a summary of the 
results. Mr Ms overall debt had fallen, and there were still no insolvency markers or debt 
management plans. There also hadnt been any defaults recorded within the year before this 
loan was approved. In addition, Shelby knew that Mr M didnt have any outstanding payday 
loans and hadnt applied for any such loans in the six months before the loan. 
This credit search didnt suggest that Mr M was having financial difficulties or would have 
struggled to repay this loan. And as he was in effect a new customer, Im satisfied Shelby 
carried out a proportionate check which showed this loan to be affordable. 
I accept, that Mr M went onto have difficulties repaying this loan and an outstanding balance 
remains due  but from the information Ive seen and what Shelby saw it doesnt appear that 
at the time of the application, based on the income and expenditure assessment, that Shelby 
was wrong to have approved the loan. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Ms complaint.  
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman