DRN-3956061
The complaint
S has complained about Covea Insurance plcs (Coveas) decision to decline a claim it made 
for stolen tools, under its motor vehicle insurance policy. 
What happened
S is represented in its complaint by Mr B. So, any reference to Mr B in this decision will also 
be a reference to S. 
On 6 September 2022, Mr B parked his van outside a retail unit. While he went into a 
different retail unit, a thief was caught on a CCTV camera, unsuccessfully trying to open the 
back door of the vehicle. Shortly afterwards he managed to gain entry via a side door without 
causing any damage. Mr B said the police suggested the door may have been opened by a 
device used by the thief. 
Mr B notified Covea of the claim and sent it the necessary supporting information on 
19 September 2022. On 22 September 2022, Covea informed Mr B that his claim had been 
declined. A week later, Mr B complained to Covea about its claim decision and provided a 
copy of the CCTV footage of the theft.
On 10 October 2022, Coveas case handler confirmed the decision to decline the claim. He 
said that hed reviewed the CCTV footage but as no lights flashed when Mr B walked away 
from the vehicle, he was of the view it hadnt been properly locked. In the absence of any 
evidence that the vehicle was locked, or proof that it had been forcibly and violently entered, 
Covea considered the claim had been fairly declined. This was repeated in the final 
response letter sent to S on 10 October 2022. 
Unhappy with Coveas response to its complaint, S brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and issued a view upholding the complaint. 
She said that the CCTV footage showed the thief had tried to gain access to the rear of the 
vehicle, but was unable to open the doors, which indicated they were locked. She said it 
wasnt reasonable for B to solely rely on not seeing the vehicles lights flash (to show it had 
been locked) in rejecting the claim. In her view, the thief only succeeded in opening the 
vehicle after hed returned to it with a device. 
As a genuine theft had occurred, and S had taken reasonable precautions to secure the 
vehicle, our investigator recommended that Covea accept the claim and pay £150 
compensation to S. Covea didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision on the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. I will explain why by 
first setting out the provisions of the policy that are relevant to S complaint.
Section D of the insurance schedule confirms that the policy provides cover for tools up to 
the limit of £10,000, with a £250 excess in the event of theft from an unattended vehicle. The 
same section, in the policy terms and conditions sets out the conditions relevant to the cover 
provided for tools.
In particular, the terms state that Covea will indemnify S in respect of physical loss, 
destruction or damage to tools, up to the policy limit, and subject to the exclusions. The 
exclusion listed at paragraph 4 says:
4. Damage to Tools caused by theft or attempted theft if it is left unattended unless it is 
contained in a securely locked motor vehicle trailer or room or box and there is evidence of 
forcible and violent entry to or exit from the motor vehicle trailer or room or box.
It is agreed that S made a valid claim, under the policy for the loss of the tools. What isnt 
agreed, is whether Covea has fairly applied the above exclusion to S claim. 
The policy wording says that in the absence of forcible and violent entry to or exit from the 
vehicle, the cover wont engage. It seems clear from the evidence available that there was 
no evidence of forcible and violent entry. So, Coveas decision on S claim appears to have 
been made in accordance with the policy terms and conditions. However, in my view, the 
way it has applied this exclusion to S claim creates and unfair and unreasonable outcome 
for S. 
After watching the CCTV footage Covea was of the view that, as the lights didnt flash when 
Mr B walked away from it, the vehicle remained unlocked. However, Ive also watched the 
CCTV footage of the theft, and, on the basis that the thiefs first attempt to open the back 
door was unsuccessful, I agree with our investigator that, more likely than not, the vehicle 
was locked. The CCTV footage then shows the thief returning to the side door of the vehicle, 
out of sight, and is able to gain access to the vehicle. The explanation Mr B has given for 
this, i.e. that the thief had a device which unlocked the vehicle is plausible.
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, as it is here, I make my decision based 
on what I think more likely than not, happened. In this case I think it likely that Mr B did lock 
the vehicle and the thief gained unlawful entry to the vehicle using his device. 
In response to a question from our investigator, Mr B explained that when he locks the van, 
the indicators flash and he can audibly hear the lock click. However, in certain light and from 
certain angles the flashing of the indicator lights does not show up on video. To demonstrate 
this, Mr B provided additional video footage of him locking the van at a different time, which 
doesnt show the indicators flashing, but the sound of the lock engaging can be heard. Mr B 
said that when hed walked away from the van, prior to the theft taking place, hed heard the 
doors lock.
It is widely known that locks of motor vehicles can be overridden by certain sophisticated 
devices without the need for a key. Mr B told us that the police had suggested this was the 
way the thief had gained entry into his van. In seeking to apply the exclusion, in 
circumstances where Im persuaded Mr B likely did lock his van, Covea is essentially 
penalising him because a more sophisticated method of entry was used by the thief to gain 
access to the van, than say, by smashing a window. I dont think thats fair. 
As Mr B took the necessary precautions to secure the vehicle before walking away from it, 
and as the thief gained entry to the vehicle without S permission and unlawfully removed the 
tools, I think Coveas decision to decline S claim because of the absence of evidence of 
violent and forcible entry, is unfair and unreasonable in the circumstances. I therefore uphold 
this complaint and require Covea to settle S claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions. Due to the time S has been without the money Covea should add interest at a 
rate of 8% simple from the date of the theft to the date it makes payment
Mr B told us that without his tools S has lost working days which has a detrimental impact on 
its finances. The tools stolen were needed by S for its work, and by rejecting the claim, 
S has suffered inconvenience. Our investigator awarded £150 compensation to S for that, 
which I think is fair in the circumstances.  
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Covea Insurance plc to:
Pay S claim for the theft of the tools in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy;
Add interest to any claim payment at 8%* simple per year from the date the claim 
was declined by Covea, until the date it makes payment; and 
Pay S £150 compensation for the inconvenience it has suffered as a result of the way 
the claim has been handled.
It should do this within 28 days of us telling it S has accepted my decision.
* If Covea considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell S how much its taken off. It should also give S a certificate 
showing this if it asks for one, so it can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Covea Insurance plc to pay the 
awards detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman