DRN-2349454
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Saga Services Limited trading as Saga Insurance Services 
(Saga) misled him into believing he had a fixed price agreement under his home insurance 
policy for three years. 
What happened
Mr M told us hes bought his insurance through the broker, Saga for many years. In 2019 he 
received a leaflet from Saga along with his renewal invitation for his home insurance policy. 
Mr M said the leaflet explained that his policy premium would be fixed for the next three 
years. However, at renewal in 2020 his premium went down slightly. Although this was 
positive, Mr M was concerned that the fixed price he believed he had wouldnt be in place for 
2021. 
Saga told Mr M that while the leaflet described an offer of a fixed price, this was an upgrade 
which Mr M would have needed to add to his policy in 2019. Mr M thought Saga had been 
misleading, and so he complained. 
Saga agreed that some of the wording from the leaflet was misleading and had since been 
changed. However, it thought it was clear in is cover letter that the fixed price was available 
as an upgrade, and that Mr M was to call Saga to get a price and to upgrade. 
Saga upheld Mr Ms complaint and offered him £75 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. But it didnt agree to provide the fixed price offer retrospectively. It 
however said that Mr M could review the offer at renewal. 
Mr M didnt accept Sagas offer and asked us to look at his complaint. 
Our investigator thought Saga had done enough to resolve Mr Ms complaint. He explained 
that we look at whether a business has acted reasonably and within the terms and 
conditions of the policy. He explained that the Financial Conduct Authority is the regulator of 
Saga. The investigator thought that although the leaflet could mislead, the cover letter did 
explain that the offer of a fixed price was an enhancement and for Mr M to call to get a price 
to add it to his policy.
Mr M didnt agree. In summary he believes Saga should honour the fixed price offer in line 
with what the leaflet said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The cover of the leaflet provided by Saga says; 
Sagas new three year price promise.now included with our home and car insurance. So if 
nothing changes over the next three years, neither will the cost of your policy.
Saga accepts that the leaflet could have been clearer and has since been changed to make 
it clearer that this option is at an additional cost. However, the renewal cover letter Saga sent 
to Mr M with the leaflet said:
"Introducing our new cover level, call to find out more. You can now upgrade to our 
new enhanced Saga Home Insurance cover level, which includes full accidental 
damage as standard, personal belongings cover and our 3-year Fixed Price. This 
means that if nothing changes on your policy, neither will the cost at your next two 
renewals. To get a price and upgrade, call us today on 0800 046 2697"
Although Saga said it couldnt offer Mr M the fixed price offer retrospectively at no additional 
cost, it said Mr M could consider the upgrade as an option at the next renewal. However, I 
understand Mr M chose not to renew his policy through Saga. For the distress and 
inconvenience caused, Saga offered Mr M £75 compensation. 
I understand this isnt what Mr M wants. He wants a nominal amount of compensation. But 
he wants Saga to provide the fixed price promise it made in the leaflet. He said theres no 
way of knowing that the price in 2021 might be higher than his renewal premium was this 
year, which was lower than the premium in 2019. 
But I think in this case Saga has acted reasonably, taking into account what both the leaflet 
and cover letter said at renewal in 2019. I think while the leaflet could have been clearer, 
Sagas cover letter explained that the fixed price was available as an upgrade, and for Mr M 
to call for a price. So on balance, I think overall the offer Saga made of £75 compensation to 
resolve Mr Ms complaint was fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Saga Services Limited 
trading as Saga Insurance Services to pay Mr M £75 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Saga Services Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
If Saga Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman