DRN-1971007
 
The complaint
Mr K complains on behalf of a trust and says that Barclays Bank UK Plc wont refund 
payments from the bank account that werent authorised.
What happened
Mr K is one of the trustees. He disputes cash withdrawals totalling £2,400 made from the 
account between 6 and 28 March 2018 using his bank card. He says that he had his card in 
his possession and hadnt disclosed the PIN to anyone. 
Barclays said that it wouldnt be refunding the money. The genuine card and correct PIN 
were used to make the withdrawals. There were genuine transactions between the 
fraudulent ones. And it would have expected a fraudster to make continuous use of the card. 
The PIN would have to be known to the person using the card and Mr K said he hadnt told 
anyone else this. He was responsible for keeping his security details safe.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr K was the only trustee 
with a bank card. He didnt think it most likely that someone had been able to take Mr Ks 
card without him noticing and then replace it. And Mr K said he had kept his PIN safe. He 
had made a very similar claim two months earlier and he thought it unlikely someone would 
have been able to carry out a further fraud with the new card and PIN that had been sent to 
him.
Mr K didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He provided more evidence. He 
said he had read about cashpoint fraud and didnt visit the cashpoints involved here. Mr K 
referred to articles about the technical ability to bypass the PIN on a card and to clone 
cards. He wanted to know why CCTV hadnt been viewed. And he was unhappy to be 
accused of taking this money which he said didnt make sense as it was only a small 
proportion of the significant balance then on the account. He said that Barclays staff had 
handled his card and he wanted to know why he was being held responsible for the fraud. 
He kept it safe at home and had limited mobility. He referred to guidance from the Financial 
Conduct Authority about payments and said Barclays hadnt proved he authorised them or 
that he was grossly negligent with his card and PIN.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised 
the trustees of this account wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
- Did Mr K either authorise the payments on the account, or allow someone else to use 
the card as Barclays says?
All of the disputed withdrawals were made from cashpoints when the chip on the card would 
need to be read. We havent seen evidence that a card chip can be cloned for general use 
as Mr K thinks happened here. Im satisfied that the genuine card was used for the 
withdrawals. The PIN would have been required and Barclays says that no incorrect PIN 
entries were made. And also, that no attempts at withdrawals were made after Mr K reported 
the disputed payments. Im satisfied based on the available evidence that the withdrawals 
were authenticated.
So, I need to think about whether Mr K consented to them. Our investigators referred to a 
previous fraud claim. Barclays settled that so I dont need to make any finding here about 
whether those payments were fraudulent or not. There is limited information about that 
claim, but it involved withdrawals at the same cashpoints used in this complaint. And it 
seems that Barclays may have given Mr K the benefit of the doubt then. Following that claim 
Barclays issued Mr K with a new bank card and PIN sent separately to him. 
Ive listened to the calls Mr K had with our investigator about what happened. He says he 
keeps his card in his wallet next to his bed. And he has a way of disguising his security 
information which hes clarified and didnt disclose the PIN to anyone. He explained that he 
made genuine withdrawals on 5 and 16 March 2018 and went into a local branch as he 
normally does. He doesnt use a cashpoint and the ones involved here were some distance 
from his home and he has mobility issues.
He lives with his mother, who is also a trustee of the account. And they both have support 
from carers. But Mr K is sure that no one else could have taken his card and found out the 
PIN. There is another trustee, but she doesnt have a card either. And Mr K says she alerted 
him to what happened as she receives text alerts from Barclays about the account. I 
appreciate Mr K says that members of Barclays staff handled his card when he went into a 
branch. But that in itself doesnt provide an explanation of how an unknown third party 
obtained his card at the times of these disputed withdrawals.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened here. I need to think about what is most likely. I 
dont think CCTV even if available would have helped resolve things. Because even if it had 
shown someone else withdrawing the money the issue would still be whether that person 
was acting with Mr Ks authority. And thats especially as in this case any such person would 
have needed to have been able to return the card to him. Barclays has said that the 
withdrawals arent typical of a fraudster because it wouldve have expected that person to 
take out as much money as quickly as possible. I agree that the pattern of the 10 disputed 
withdrawals here is spaced out. And its odd that they occurred some distance from Mr Ks 
home, if as he says the card was then returned to him without him knowing. Its also a similar 
pattern of withdrawals thats been seen on the account before.
Ive balanced all this information in making my decision. Im not persuaded its most likely 
here that Mr K didnt consent to the withdrawals from the account. I say that because based 
on his evidence I dont see a likely scenario in which a third party would have been able to make all these withdrawals without his authority and without him realising. Mr K has referred 
to a consideration of whether hes been negligent. As I have found that the payments were 
authorised rather than unauthorised thats not something thats going to be a relevant 
consideration here. Had I thought there was a way that the withdrawals were made without 
his authority Id have then gone on to consider this. 
So, in this case I know Im going to disappoint him when I say that I dont have a reasonable 
basis to require Barclays to take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K on behalf of 
the trustees to accept or reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman