DRN-3657083
The complaint
Miss W complaints Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty (Drafty) gave her a line of credit she 
couldnt afford to repay and without carrying out affordability checks. She also said she was 
unhappy Drafty couldnt increase her monthly repayment. 
What happened
Miss W approached Drafty for a running credit facility in June 2018 and Miss W was given a
facility with a £1,000 credit limit. The limit remained the same throughout the life of the credit 
facility. Drafty, after the complaint was considered by an adjudicator confirmed the 
outstanding balance had been repaid. 
Miss W was given a running credit account where she could either request funds up to her 
agreed credit limit in one go or could take multiple drawdowns up to the limit. She was also 
able to borrow further, up to the credit limit, as and when she repaid what she owed. To be 
clear, Miss W was not given a payday loan. 
In Draftys first final response letter explained why it wasnt going to uphold her complaint. 
Unhappy with this outcome, Miss W referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
After the complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman, Drafty reviewed the 
complaint, and it made an offer to settle the complaint by refunding any interest added to 
new drawdowns on the facility from 22 January 2020. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Ws complaint. She thought the checks Drafty carried
out before initially granting this facility were proportionate and showed Drafty Miss W was 
likely to be able to afford the payment amount as outlined by the hypothetical payment 
schedule in Miss Ws credit agreement. This was calculated on the full £1,000 being drawn 
down at the outset and then being repaid over 12 months. So, she didnt think it was wrong 
to have initially approved the facility.
However, the adjudicator, pointed out that in addition to taking reasonable steps to ensure 
the facility was affordable at the outset, it also had an obligation to monitor Miss Ws ongoing 
use of the facility. Having reviewed the way Miss W borrowed and repaid the facility, she 
thought by 1 October 2019 Drafty ought to have realised that the facility had become 
unsustainable for her. Knowing this, in the adjudicators view Drafty shouldve stepped in and 
shouldve frozen the interest on the facility. 
In order to put things right, the adjudicator recommended all interest, fees and charged paid 
by Miss W from 1 October 2019 should be refunded, along with additional interest of 8% 
simple. She also said any adverse information recorded on Miss Ws credit file from the 
uphold date should be removed from her credit file. 
Drafty didnt fully agree with the adjudicators assessment. It agreed to uphold the complaint 
from the same point in time (1 October 2019) but it agreed to only refund the interest fees 
and charges applied to any new drawdowns from that date. At the time the offer was made, 
Drafty initially explained this would lead to a refund (with tax taken off and offsetting against 
the outstanding balance) of £23.77  it also agreed to remove any adverse information from 
Miss Ws credit file. 
However, Drafty didnt agree to refund all of the interest fees and charges applied from 
1 October 2019. It said this was because: 
Since you have decided 1st October 2019 as the upheld date our understanding is 
that any amount given to the customer before this date was affordable and after this 
date is unaffordable.
Basis [sic] this, Drafty is well within their rights to collect the principle [sic] as well as 
interest on any drawdowns given prior to the upheld date. The above calculations 
has [sic] been done on the interest which is paid on the drawdowns which were taken 
by the customer after the upheld date..
However, Miss W informed the Financial Ombudsman that she had repaid the facility in full 
and so Drafty shouldnt use any refund to offset a balance. Drafty later confirmed, the facility 
was repaid in July 2022. Drafty re-calculated the refund (based on its calculations) and it 
concluded a refund of £480.13 was due to Miss W. 
Draftys offer was put to Miss W and she rejected it. As no agreement has been reached, the 
case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the relevant times.
A lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a consumer wouldve been able to repay 
what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their 
financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather enough information so that it could 
make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate.
Any checks had to take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be repaid. 
As explained, Miss W was given an open-ended credit facility. So, overall, I think that this 
means the checks Drafty carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand 
whether Miss W would be able to both service and then repay her facility within a reasonable 
period of time. Drafty also needed to monitor Miss Ws repayment record for any sign that 
she may have been experiencing financial difficulties.
It is worth saying here that Drafty agrees with the uphold point the adjudicator reached, as it 
offered some redress from this time  1 October 2019. And while, Miss W rejected the 
settlement offer by Drafty, she didnt disagree that this is the point where the complaint ought 
to be upheld. So, it seems to me, that all parties to the complaint agree the facility should be upheld from 
1 October 2019. However, what is in dispute, and therefore what this decision has focused 
on, is whether the redress proposed by Drafty is fair and reasonable considering the 
circumstances of Miss Ws complaint. 
Therefore, Ive set out below what I think Drafty needs to do in order to put things right for 
Miss W while explaining why I agree with the adjudicators conclusions that all the interest 
charged after the 1 October 2019 needs to be refunded. 
Drafty has accepted, that the facility had become unsustainable for Miss W by October 2019. 
So, I dont think that I need to speculate here about the actions Drafty may or may not have 
taken had it stepped in at this time to provide assistance to Miss W. There were a number of 
options which Drafty could have taken. But seeing as none of these were taken and Im 
satisfied that action ought to have been taken  as it agrees. Ive considered what Drafty 
ought to fairly and reasonably do to put things right sometime after the event. And the 
proposed redress is the clearest and fairest way of doing this sometime after the event.
In any event, whats most important here is that I dont think its fair and reasonable for a 
lender to allow a customer to continue using a facility that had become demonstrably 
unsustainable  instead I think its fair and reasonable to expect a lender to help the 
customer repay what theyve already drawn down and what they already owe. I dont think 
that Drafty continuing to allow interest to be charged on Miss Ws balance, in circumstances 
where this increased the chances of her being unable to repay what she owed. And her 
repayment record suggested she was already struggling to, is fair and reasonable. 
So, although, I do accept that the balance up to the uphold point was legitimately lent and 
appeared affordable for Miss W at the time it was lent, once the point had been reached 
where Drafty accepted the facility was unsustainable, it ought to have exercised forbearance 
in order to allow Miss W to repay what she owed. In these circumstances, it isnt, in my view, 
fair and reasonable for Drafty to have continued charging interest on this balance from 
1 October 2019 onwards. 
Indeed, her borrowing pattern  or how she used the facility was clear, that Miss W would 
make the minimum repayment and then typically within a week or so shed return for any 
available credit that she had. Typically, she made her minimum repayment of around £70 
with new drawdowns of around £20. This pattern was apparent between August 2018 until 
June 2019. 
In addition, and only briefly as it doesnt make any difference to the outcome that Ive 
reached. But had Drafty taken steps to check Miss Ws financial situation it wouldve further 
reinforced why all the interest added to the account from 1 October 2019 should be 
refunded. 
So, even if Drafty had taken steps to build a complete picture of Miss Ws financial position it 
wouldve likely realised the facility wasnt sustainable for her. Miss W has provided her 
September 2019 bank statements and these show, she was making payments to four 
different third-party debt collectors  for presumably historic debt. Miss W also had three 
outstanding loans to high-cost creditors with monthly repayments over around £300 and 
there was evidence of at least two returned direct debits due to insufficient funds being 
available in her account  further evidence in my view that she was having financial 
difficulties. 
Therefore, given what Drafty said in response to the adjudicators assessment, that the 
whole facility was unsustainable by 1 October 2019, it therefore follows that it isnt just the 
new drawdowns that Miss W couldnt afford. She also couldnt afford to repay what she already owed  so its actions in failing to offer help to repay this as well as offering further 
drawdowns needs to be reflected in what it does to put things right going forward. 
Thinking about this, and the fact the reasons why Drafty has already agreed to uphold the 
complaint at the point the adjudicator recommended, Ive outlined below what Drafty needs 
to do in order to put things right for Miss W. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right Drafty should do the following: 
Refund all interest, fees and charges that Miss W paid from 1 October 2019;
Then refund any interest fees and charges from the above date and then add 8% 
simple interest a year from the date of the payment to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information about the facility from Miss Ws credit file from 
1 October 2019  as Drafty has already agreed to do. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give
Miss W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I partly uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Gain Credit LLC should put things right for Miss W as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman