DRN-3106575
The complaint
Mr K complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) declined a claim he 
made under his insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ks tablet, mobile phone and laptop were stolen from his car whilst he was shopping. He 
called Assurant to make a claim under his Tech Pack insurance policy. Mr K says that 
because he has to carry a number of large items around for work, he constantly has the rear 
seats down. This means he isnt able to securely store anything in the boot. So, he left his 
tablet, work mobile phone and laptop in a laptop bag in the rear footwell of his car whilst he 
went shopping. He says he covered the items with a garment and that it couldnt be seen. 
Assurant said he hadnt taken reasonable care of the items, so it declined the claim. Mr K 
wasnt happy with this and referred the complaint to our service.
One of our investigators thought the complaint should be upheld. He said that photos of 
Mr Ks car showed that it had tinted windows which were almost impossible to see through. 
And he thought that Mr K had taken reasonable steps to ensure the items couldnt be seen. 
He noted that due to Mr Ks disability, he wasnt able to carry the items with him. Overall, our 
investigator thought Mr K had taken reasonable care with the items. So he recommended 
the claim be paid and Mr K be paid £100 compensation. 
Assurant didnt agree. It said the bag was visible and that Mr K hadnt taken reasonable 
care. So the complaint has been passed to me to review and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigator, and for the same reasons. 
The terms and conditions of the policy Mr K holds say you must take reasonable care of the 
devices. And that this means not knowingly leaving it somewhere it is likely to be lost, stolen 
or damaged. It says that if you leave your device somewhere then, if possible, it is locked 
away out of sight.
Mr K has explained why he wasnt able to take the items with him  because he walks with a 
stick and couldnt carry the bag and his shopping. This is a reasonable explanation to me. 
Assurants terms and conditions say that if you need to leave items somewhere it should be 
locked and out of sight. Given that the car window was broken by the thieves to gain entry, it 
seems likely the car was locked. Therefore, I think it was locked away as per the terms and 
conditions. So I need to decide whether Mr K had left the items out of sight. 
Mr K has told us the laptop bag containing the three items was placed underneath the front 
seat, not just in the footwell. And Mr K has shown us pictures of his car windows, and they 
are very heavily tinted, meaning it would be very difficult, if not impossible to see through. 
Mr K has also told us he had his rear seats down at the time of the theft. Hes also shown us 
photos of the car with the rear seats down, and with the boot full of the items that he carries 
for work. These pictures show that the view of the footwell is almost completely blocked, and 
thats from a photo with the door open. 
Furthermore, Mr K has told us he covered the items with a garment bag to take further steps 
to ensure they couldnt be seen. Assurant has questioned whether he did in fact do this 
given that he didnt mention this in the first call. But hes been consistent and persuasive with 
his testimony to us. So, on balance, Im satisfied that he likely did. Assurant has also said 
that by covering the items, this might have enticed a thief to break in. Im not persuaded by 
this argument. And the policy says the items must be out of sight. Based on everything Ive 
set out above, Im persuaded that Mr K took all reasonable steps he couldve to ensure the 
items were out of sight. And I think its more likely than not that the items were not visible to 
any potential thief. 
Mr K has told us he thinks that other cars near to him had also been broken into. And his 
work items which were kept in the car mayve been visible. But the terms and conditions 
dont require Mr K to take steps to make sure everything in the car is out of sight, just the 
insured items. And for the reasons set out above, I think he did. So, it seems likely to me that 
this was an opportunistic theft, rather than Mr Ks car being targeted because his items were 
on display. 
In cases such as this, the onus is on Assurant to evidence that Mr K has acted recklessly 
and not taken steps to mitigate an obvious risk. Overall, for the reasons set out above, I 
dont think Assurant has demonstrated that Mr K was reckless or didnt take reasonable care 
of the devices. Im satisfied the devices were locked away, and out of sight. I also think that 
by unfairly declining the claim, this has put Mr K to some level of inconvenience having to 
appeal the claim and ultimately be without replacement devices, or fund them himself. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Assurant should settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy adding 8% simple interest to any payment it makes to him from the 
date it first declined the claim to the date payment is made. In addition, Assurant should pay 
£100 compensation for the inconvenience this matter had caused. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Assurant General Insurance Limited to put things right as 
Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman