DRN-4281419
The complaint
Mr R complains about the value Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) gave him 
for his car following a claim under his motor insurance policy. Mr R is represented in his 
complaint, but for ease Ill refer to him throughout.
What happened
Mr R had a motor insurance policy with Admiral covering his car. 
His car was damaged. Admiral assessed his car as being beyond economic repair. It said it 
would declare it a write-off and assessed its market value as £30,000.
Mr R didnt agree with this valuation, and he complained to Admiral.
Admiral said itd used trade guides to arrive at a value for the car and it said it wouldnt 
increase this amount.
Mr R remained unhappy with Admirals valuation and brought his complaint to this service. 
He asked for the value of his car to be increased by up to £15,000.
Our investigator looked into his complaint and didnt think it would be upheld. She looked at 
the trade guides and said the amount offered by Admiral was in line with the approach taken 
by this service.
Mr R didnt agree with the view and asks that his complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having read the file of evidence about the valuation of Mr Rs car, Im not going to uphold his 
complaint. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to him and Ill explain why.
Ive said above about how Admiral arrived at the valuation of Mr Rs car. Its approach fits 
with this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide valuations for vehicles, but 
look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable.
Ive done some research into the value of Mr Rs car and Ive found these results, provided 
by different trade guides, for the month his car was damaged, which are based on a vehicle 
with the same specification and mileage:
Trade guide A: £30,590
Trade guide B: £29,886
Trade guide C: £31,180
Its important I say that Mr Rs car is a fairly rare model. What that means is there are 
relatively few comparable cars. But because the marketplace is quite small, it also tends to 
mean that cars with a relatively higher mileage often are at a lower value. And I hope Mr R 
wont mind me saying that his car was one of these particular examples.
I can see Mr R has provided this service with a range of examples of cars on the market he 
says prove his car was worth more than Admiral said. But having looked at his examples, I 
can see that in almost all of them, the mileage was lower or much lower than his. Looking at 
the trade guides and other markets, I can see that examples matched closer to his do have 
asking prices much lower than hes expecting.
Mr R also mentions that his car had recently had an expensive service before it was written-
off. Routine maintenance isnt a consideration in vehicle valuation cases as the insurer will 
expect this to be carried out according to the manufacturers requirements. If the 
maintenance is not done, then its reasonable to expect a cars valuation to be lower than 
market to account for the reduction in value.
Mr R also points out that actual forecourt values do not correlate to the trade price guides 
used. Unfortunately, actual selling prices of cars dont necessarily correlate to the asking 
prices on forecourts either  which is why this service uses the trade guides as the basis of 
our approach.
Ive looked at Admirals valuation of his car and I can see it has offered him a value in the 
range of values listed above. Wed normally agree the insurers valuation is fair if it is in the 
range of the guides.
It follows that I think Admirals offer of £30,000 for his car value, and the approach it has 
taken, is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman