DRN-4443403
The complaint
Mr F complains about the service he received from his financial adviser - AFH Independent 
Financial Services Limited trading as AFH Wealth Management (AFH) - when he was trying 
to get advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) pension to a defined contribution (DC) 
arrangement. 
Mr F says that AFH took too long to produce the initial abridged advice report. And that this 
delay prevented him from exploring other options. He also says that AFH didnt allow him to 
discuss the outcome of the abridged advice report with a transfer specialist. And it didnt 
offer him an insistent client option. He also says that AFH refused to offer him any 
assistance after he raised a formal complaint.
What happened
Mr F met with his AFH adviser on 7 January 2022 to discuss his finances. He expressed an 
interest in transferring the benefits from a DB scheme. AFH then sent Mr F its Safeguarded 
and Defined Benefit Pension Transfer Guide to help him understand how valuable his DB 
scheme benefits were. The following week, AFH sent Mr F a Safeguarded Defined Benefit 
Pension Transfer Guidance Questionnaire. 
AFH said that its adviser emailed Mr F on 24 January 2022 to confirm that if he proceeded to 
take DB pension advice, it would require a full financial review.
Mr F had a further meeting with his adviser on 31 January 2022 to discuss the advice 
process in more detail. A fact find was started during this meeting. This recorded that Mr F 
was married with two children who werent financially dependent. He was earning £147K. He 
thought he would retire in 2023. He was already taking the benefits from another DB 
scheme. And had another income. The total income from these was around £25K a year. 
The fact find also recorded that Mr Fs household expenditure was around £54K. And that he 
had significant cash deposits. And wanted to maintain an emergency fund of £50K.
The fact find further recorded that Mr F was in good health. And that he had no specific 
annual retirement income target. It also noted that Mr F had two personal pensions worth a 
total of around £280K. Additional notes recorded that Mr F had an: uncrystallised DB 
scheme. Will either take benefits or transfer by age 65. The DB scheme benefits were noted 
to be around £9K at age 65. And the current Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) for the 
pension was around £170K. 
The fact find also recorded that the larger of Mr Fs two personal pensions, held with a 
provider Ill refer to as provider S, was his current workplace scheme. Mr F had around 
£240K in this pension, currently invested in a lifestyling strategy in low-risk funds. He was 
still contributing to this pension. 
On 23 February 2022, Mr F emailed AFH for an update on the transfer advice. And on 1 
April 2022, Mr F contacted AFH again to ask why he hadnt heard anything about the 
transfer advice. Mr Fs adviser replied the same day to tell him hed had a positive initial 
case discussion with a Senior Advice Technician and was continuing to work on it. AFH also 
sent Mr F a number of documents to sign on 8 April 2022, including a personal fact find, 
client risk assessment and client agreement. Mr F completed and returned these documents 
to AFH by 12 April. 
AFH contacted Mr F on 20 April 2022 to arrange a further meeting. Mr F then met with AFH 
on 16 May 2022 to discuss the transfer advice. Following this, AFH emailed provider S on 18 
May 2022 with a signed letter of authority and a request for plan information. It replied on 31 
May 2022 to say it had a response turnaround time of seven to ten working days for such a 
request.
On 5 June 2022: Mr F emailed AFH to chase the transfer advice. It replied on 7 June 2022 to 
say that the request had gone through the initial assessment stage but further information 
was needed. Mr F provided the requested information on 13 June 2022. 
Mr F electronically signed AFHs abridged advice fee agreement on 18 July 2022. AFH said 
this stated that AFH would provide Mr F with the following for a £400 plus VAT fee:
Fact Finding to gather personal information about him
A review of his Safeguarded Pension Benefits
A written report which would confirm the outcome of whether he should remain in the 
scheme or if further detailed analysis is required. 
On 18 July 2022, Mr Fs adviser submitted his transfer for an approval decision. And on 19 
July 2022, AFH chased provider S for a response to its request for plan information. Provider 
S provided that information on 26 August 2022. Then on 31 August 2022, Mr Fs adviser 
stopped working for AFH. 
On 5 September 2022, a new adviser from AFH called Mr F for an initial meeting. He also 
emailed him to request a letter of authority for Mr Fs DB scheme. Mr F provided information 
hed already given to his initial adviser. AFH then sent a request for scheme information to 
Mr Fs DB scheme on 6 September 2022. And the new adviser emailed Mr F on 9 
September 2022 to tell him no further information was required at this stage.
AFH received the requested scheme information on 15 September 2022. It then met with Mr 
F on 19 September 2022. A further fact find was carried out, including a detailed assessment 
of Mr Fs likely post-retirement expenditure. A report dated 23 September 2022 showed that 
it would likely be around £48K each year. The report also recorded Mr Fs desire to release 
the cash value of his DB scheme, as he didnt think he needed the income it would provide. 
And that he wanted to transfer the CETV of the DB scheme benefits into a DC scheme to 
provide flexibility to manage his income tax liability and to improve his succession planning.
On 11 October 2022, AFH requested some additional information from Mr Fs former DB 
scheme. It received a response on 21 November 2022.
AFH completed the abridged advice report on 6 December 2022. It said that transferring Mr 
Fs guaranteed benefits from his DB scheme wasnt required for him to be able to meet his 
objectives. And that it would expose him to unnecessary costs and risk. 
On 9 December 2022, AFH invoiced Mr F for the abridged advice fee of £400 plus VAT. AFH 
carried out further internal compliance checks before calling Mr F to discuss its advice on 21 
December 2022.
Mr F said that the initial feedback hed received from AFH about his potential DB transfer had been positive. So he was surprised and disappointed that AFHs report strongly 
recommended against the transfer. He questioned whether all relevant information about his 
circumstances had been understood and taken into account. 
Mr F said that his adviser suggested that Mr F talk with the specialist whod compiled the 
report. And that he make a complaint about the time itd taken to produce the report. But that 
the adviser hadnt explained that if he made a complaint, he wouldnt be able to have any 
further discussions with his adviser or a specialist pensions adviser at AFH until his 
complaint was resolved.
AFH provided Mr F with a physical copy of the abridged advice report on 30 December 
2022. 
On 7 January 2023, AFH told Mr F that a call with the pension transfer specialist had been 
arranged for the following week. But it then told him on 12 January 2023 that no such 
discussions could take place until his complaint was resolved. 
Mr F continued to raise questions about the outcome of his advice, as he was approaching 
the date hed wanted his DB transfer to have completed. AFH said it couldnt help until the 
complaint investigation had ended. 
AFH issued its final response to Mr Fs complaint on 15 March 2023. It felt that its 
recommendation to remain in the DB scheme was reasonable. And that itd clearly explained 
how the abridged advice process worked. But it also acknowledged that the level of service 
Mr F had received had fallen below expectations. To put things right, it offered Mr F £100 
compensation for the delays and inconvenience itd caused him. 
Mr F replied to AFHs final response. He felt that its offer of £100 missed the point. He said 
he wanted a thorough explanation of why some of the delays had happened and why hed 
been refused direct access to the transfer specialists. 
Mr F brought his complaint to this service. To resolve his complaint, Mr F said hed like an 
adequate investigation into AFHs failings; assurances that AFHs procedures have been 
changed; and compensation for the stress, frustration and upset hes been caused.
Our investigator was satisfied that AFH had made a reasonable recommendation. And felt 
that he hadnt seen any evidence that either the advice or the delay to it had led to a 
financial loss for Mr F. But he felt that AFH shouldve been able to tell Mr F on 29 August 
2022 that it didnt recommend he transferred his DB pension. And that Mr F had been 
significantly inconvenienced by the four-month delay he felt AFH was responsible for. He felt 
this had led to Mr Fs expectations not being managed. And forced him to wait for a 
response when he couldve been seeking assistance elsewhere. Our investigator felt that 
total compensation of £450, rather than the £100 AFH had offered, would more fairly reflect 
the distress and inconvenience the poor service had caused Mr F. 
AFH agreed with our investigators recommendations. 
Mr F didnt agree with our investigator. He made the following points:
He didnt think AFH had ever asked him the full extent of any other income he might 
expect to receive after the DB pension he wanted to transfer had come into payment. 
He felt this was relevant because it would determine the level of tax he paid on his 
DB pension income, and therefore what hed receive from it. And that it therefore 
shouldve impacted the transfer advice. He said this was the main reason he still felt 
the transfer specialist hadnt had all the relevant background information, which was why hed wanted to speak to him.
He said all his trust in AFH had now gone. So he wanted to change adviser. But he 
said that under the terms of his client agreement with AFH, it was entitled to take 
further charges from his ISA investments for the remainder of the agreed five-year 
term. He wanted AFH to agree to let him move to a new adviser without incurring 
these charges. 
AFH considered Mr Fs request. But it didnt agree to it. It said the charges on the ISA 
investments werent related to the complaint.
Our investigator considered Mr Fs request. But felt that as Mr Fs ISA charges werent 
related to the delays or the abridged advice hed received, he couldnt fairly or reasonably 
ask AFH to void these charges. He said this was because it wouldnt put right the impact of 
its error. But he said that if Mr F was unhappy with the charges, he could raise a separate 
complaint with AFH. 
Mr F didnt agree with AFH or our investigator that the ISA fees were unrelated to this 
complaint. He felt that when AFH had prevented him from speaking to his adviser while his 
complaint was ongoing, it had also prevented him from speaking to his adviser about his 
other investments. He said that AFH's actions had led to him losing trust in AFH on all of his 
dealings with it. And that he therefore had no alternative but to change to a different adviser. 
He felt that this would involve significant expense in fees to any new adviser. And that it was 
unfair that he would therefore be further penalised by AFH exit charges, which AFH would 
benefit from, 
Mr F provided detailed reasons for his loss of trust in AFH. In summary, he felt that in 
causing him disappointment and loss of expectation, AFH had also lost his trust. He also felt 
that putting him back to the position he wouldve been in without AFH's errors meant putting 
him into a new relationship with an adviser he could trust. 
Mr F still felt that he was being penalised more than AFH. He felt that most people wouldve 
lost trust in their adviser in the circumstances hed faced. And that most would want to 
change advisers. 
Mr F also said that the delays AFH caused couldve also led to a reduced CETV. He said 
that average transfer values fell by 23% over the time his transfer was being investigated. 
He accepted that this wouldnt have changed the abridged advice. But felt that if there hadnt 
been any delays he wouldve had time to take an alternative opinion. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. But I agree with our investigator that £450 
compensation is reasonable under the circumstances. Ill explain the reasons for my 
decision.
Before I start, Id like to echo our investigators point that this service is a dispute resolution 
service which is intended to resolve individual complaints and put things right for consumers 
who have been treated unfairly. Were not the regulator. And we dont have any power to 
punish businesses or change policies and procedures. Therefore, while I know Mr F would like AFH to change its procedures to ensure this situation couldn't happen again, I dont 
have the power to ask it to change those procedures. 
I first considered whether AFH shouldve produced the abridged advice report sooner than it 
did.
Did AFH cause delays to the abridged advice report?
Mr F said that AFH took too long to produce the abridged advice report, and that the delay 
prevented him from exploring other options. 
Our investigator went into great detail about what happened in his view. Having reviewed the 
timeline of events against what I feel shouldve happened, I agree that AFH caused 
avoidable delays to the abridged advice process. 
In particular, I note that AFH failed to carry out all possible actions at the first opportunity. I 
can also see that there was some delay caused by Mr Fs original adviser leaving AFH 
before the completion of the abridged advice process.
However, Im satisfied that once AFH had all of the information it needed, it completed the 
necessary analysis, produce the abridged advice report and contacted Mr F with the 
outcome within a reasonable timeframe. 
Overall, I agree with our investigator that if AFH had carried out the whole abridged advice 
process in line with a reasonable timeframe, it shouldve been able to discuss the outcome 
of the process with Mr F by the end of August 2022.
I also agree with our investigator that, had this been the case, Mr F couldve then tried to find 
another adviser who couldve provide him with transfer advice. He wouldve still had several 
months before his DB pension was due to come into payment. 
I next considered whether AFHs advice was incorrect. And whether or not another adviser 
wouldve recommended a transfer. 
Is there any evidence that the advice not to transfer was incorrect?
Mr F said that while waiting to receive the report, the only feedback hed been given during 
the initial discussions was that his case looked positive. So he was surprised at the findings 
of the report, especially as he personally felt that the case for a transfer out was clear. 
AFH shouldve only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that it was in Mr Fs 
best interests. It said it hadnt been able to recommend the transfer due to Mr F having an 
income shortfall in retirement. It felt Mr F would need an additional guaranteed source of 
income to meet his expenditure in retirement before it could recommend a DB transfer. 
The abridged advice report stated that transferring guaranteed benefits would expose Mr F 
to unnecessary costs and risk. And that while this may provide him with greater flexibility, it 
would be at the cost of a guaranteed income, which he needed to cover the retirement 
income shortfall the analysis had exposed. It also showed that given Mr Fs retirement plans 
for the following year, he was likely to find himself in a situation where his guaranteed 
income was considerably lower than his expected expenditure.
The report also stated that if Mr F had been able to take full transfer advice, AFH wouldve 
charged him £6,865, less a £ 480 credit for the abridged advice fee.I acknowledge that Mr F had considerable cash reserves. And that he felt he already had 
enough secure income. I can also see that Mr F felt he didnt need the DB pension income at 
that time. And that he felt hed be better off with a larger cash pension pot as it would give 
him the flexibility to take only what he needed in a tax efficient way. He also wanted to 
improve his legacy planning.
But I also note Mr F s response to the Safeguarded Defined Benefit Pension Transfer 
Guidance Questionnaire. When asked: 
What would be your feelings about your financial position should you live into your 90s?, 
Mr F replied:
We should be secure. Main risk is inflation but as the guaranteed increase on the pension I 
am considering is capped this does not give me protection from rampant inflation.
I consider that this shows Mr F didnt fully appreciate the value of his DB pension. I say this 
because he didnt value the pension increases in that scheme, which were based on the rate 
of increase in the RPI or 2.5% if less each year. It should be noted that this level of pension 
increases would be likely to more than double the level of Mr Fs DB pension after 30 years.
Overall, Im not persuaded that AFHs advice was unsuitable. I say this because Ive dont 
think Mr Fs reasons for wanting the transfer were sufficiently compelling to outweigh the 
additional risks and costs he wouldve taken on. So Im satisfied that AFH reached the 
correct conclusion based on the information it had available.
Ive also considered whether, if Mr F had been given enough time to find another adviser 
after AFH had rejected the transfer, that adviser wouldve made a different recommendation.
Im of the view that if Mr F had found such an adviser, there wouldve been no guarantee 
that they wouldve recommended the transfer. I say this because Ive not seen enough 
evidence that clearly demonstrates a transfer wouldve been in Mr Fs best interests. 
I appreciate Mr F doesnt agree. But Im not persuaded that another adviser wouldve agreed 
to facilitate the transfer. 
In summary, I can see that AFH caused avoidable delays of approximately four months to Mr 
Fs abridged advice. But I dont consider that these delays prevented Mr F from transferring 
the benefits from his DB scheme into a DC arrangement. However, I am of the view that 
AFH shouldve managed Mr Fs expectations better. Ill cover the distress and inconvenience 
AFHs actions caused later in this decision. 
I next considered if AFH did what it should when it provided the abridged advice.
Abridged advice service
In his view, our investigator went into some detail about the industry rules and guidance AFH 
was required to follow when providing abridged advice. I wont repeat that detail here. But I 
will say that Ive found no issues with AFHs stated process for the provision of abridged 
advice. I say this because Im satisfied that AFH provided Mr F with the service hed agreed 
to pay for. 
However, I dont consider that the Safeguarded and Defined Benefit Pension Transfer Guide 
AFH provided Mr F with was clear that he might not be able to proceed to AFHs full advice 
service. I say this because the guide stated that there were only two possible outcomes of 
the abridged advice process:We recommend you remain in the scheme
The outcome is unclear You can then choose whether to remain in the scheme or 
move to our full advice service.
But AFH didnt permit Mr F to move to its full advice service after providing its abridged 
advice that Mr F should leave his DB benefits in the scheme. This wording flows through to 
the next part of Mr Fs complaint that I considered  whether AFH shouldve allowed him an 
insistent client option.
Should AFH have allowed Mr F an insistent client option?
Mr F felt that AFH shouldve offered him an insistent client option. He said AFH didnt give 
him any reason for rejecting his request for this. 
For a consumer to be defined as insistent, they must be acting against an advisers 
recommendation.
Theres no obligation on a firm to facilitate a transaction for an insistent client. But I need to 
consider whether AFH made clear prior to giving advice what its policy was. 
I say this because where a firm isnt clear on this at the start of an advice process, it can 
lead to situations where a consumer who is insistent on transferring would end up out of 
pocket due to having to pay another adviser for full advice. This is because a transfer cant 
be facilitated following abridged advice only. So Id expect a business to make it clear at the 
outset if it may not agree to proceed to full advice following a recommendation that 
transferring is unsuitable at the abridged advice stage.
AFH thinks it did make this clear to Mr F from the start. It said its DB Transfer Guide, which it 
felt itd given Mr F sufficient time to review, stated:
We will also as part of this process provide you with guidance around whether we will offer 
an insistent option should you take advice and wish us to facilitate an action that is against 
our advice.
It felt that Mr F was aware that AFH could recommend that no transfer took place and that it 
might not offer him an insistent client option.
But Im not persuaded that it did. I say this because the client agreement declaration which 
Mr F signed states: 
you can then decide if you want to take no further action or proceed to full advice 
irrespective of the outcome detailed in our [abridged advice] report. 
Having said that, Ive not been provided with any evidence that Mr F did end up having to 
pay another adviser for full advice. So Ive not seen any evidence of financial loss here.
I next considered whether AFH shouldve allowed Mr F to discuss the outcome of the 
abridged advice with a transfer specialist.
Should AFH have allowed Mr F to discuss the outcome with a transfer specialist?
The FCA requires individuals undertaking this decision making to hold a specific pension 
transfer qualification and they must also be authorised by the FCA to undertake this activity. 
AFH said it has a number of transfer specialists who undertake this activity on behalf of its advisers. It also said that these individuals make the decision on whether a transfer should 
proceed or not, not the individual adviser a client meets with.
Mr F was concerned that the transfer specialist whod produced the abridged advice report 
might not have been given all the information about his circumstances. He felt that if he 
could speak to the transfer specialist, he might be able to share information which changed 
the decision. 
Mr F felt that AFH hadnt asked him the full extent of any other income he might expect to 
receive after the DB pension he wanted to transfer had come into payment. So he felt a 
discussion with the transfer specialist would ensure all relevant information would be 
considered. 
AFHs adviser told Mr F hed be able to discuss the abridged advice with a transfer specialist 
before a final decision was made. But AFH told this service that this was an error on the 
advisers part. In fact, it wasnt possible for anyone using the abridged advice process to 
speak to a transfer specialist about the abridged advice. 
I can see why Mr F is frustrated that he couldnt speak to the transfer specialist - hed been 
told he would be able to. And he felt such a discussion may have ended up changing either 
the transfer specialists or his own mind about whether the transfer was in his best interests. 
But I agree with our investigator that AFH was under no obligation to allow Mr F to speak to 
the transfer specialist. From what Ive seen, it did everything itd agreed to do under the 
abridged advice service. And I agree with AFH that in any event, discussing his case with 
the transfer specialist wouldnt have altered its opinion.
Mr F told this service that when AFH prevented him from speaking to his adviser while his 
complaint was ongoing, itd also prevented him from speaking to his adviser about his other 
investments. He said his adviser didnt explain that he wouldnt be able to assist him any 
further until the complaint was resolved. 
Ive seen no evidence that Mr Fs adviser explained the consequences of complaining in this 
way. So I accept what Mr F has said here. I consider that Mr Fs adviser shouldve fully 
explained the complaint process. This wouldve better managed his expectations. And not 
left him unable to seek assistance elsewhere while he was waiting for a complaint response. 
However, Ive not been provided with any evidence of financial loss caused by this failure.
I also consider that, even though AFH wasnt required to proceed to full advice after making 
its abridged advice recommendation that he leave his DB benefits where they were, Mr F 
had been led to believe that hed be able to discuss the outcome with someone. And that the 
outcome might change. 
AFH clearly understood Mr Fs desired outcome, including the timing of it. So I agree with 
our investigator that even if it couldnt proceed further with transfer advice, it shouldve told 
Mr F he could still seek advice elsewhere. 
From what Ive seen, AFH shouldve again managed Mr Fs expectations better. It incorrectly 
told him he could have a meeting with the transfer specialist. Then it told him he couldnt, 
due to him having an active complaint, before finally correctly telling him that he wouldnt be 
allowed direct access to a transfer specialist in any circumstance as procedures didnt allow 
it. 
Ill cover the distress and inconvenience the incorrect information caused later in my 
decision. I next considered Mr Fs request for AFH to agree to let him move to a new adviser without 
incurring any further contractual charges. 
Should AFH be required to release Mr F from further contractual charges?
Mr F said all his trust in AFH had now gone. So he wanted to change adviser. But under the 
terms of his client agreement with AFH, it can still take further charges from his ISA 
investments for the remainder of the agreed five-year term. Mr F doesnt think this is fair. He 
feels that hes being penalised for AFHs mistakes, rather than AFH.
Mr F felt that when AFH had prevented him from speaking to his adviser while his complaint 
was ongoing, itd also prevented him from speaking to his adviser about his other 
investments. So he felt that any future ISA fees were related to his current complaint. He 
said that this had led to him losing trust in AFH on all of his dealings with it. So he felt he had 
to change adviser. He also said that the delays AFH caused couldve also led to a reduced 
CETV. 
Ive carefully considered Mr Fs testimony on this point. And while I completely understand 
why he feels this way, I cant fairly and reasonably ask AFH to waive contractual fees on an 
investment-product which is unrelated to the pension transfer advice this complaint is about. 
I say this because, while I acknowledge Mr F no longer has trust in AFH, I agree with our 
investigator that this service considers a loss of trust to be a practical and/or emotional 
impact, which we cover with an award for distress and inconvenience. Ill cover that next in 
my decision. I also note that until AFH made the mistakes Ive outlined in my decision, Mr F 
stressed that he had: always been happy with AFH's investment advice. And Ive seen no 
evidence relating to the quality of investment advice.
Ive also considered Mr Fs point about the delays AFH caused potentially leading to a 
reduced CETV. But, as I explained earlier in my decision, Im not persuaded that Mr F 
wouldve found an adviser who wouldve recommended the transfer, even if there hadnt 
been delays. So Im not persuaded hes lost out here.
In summary, I dont consider that AFH should be required to release Mr F from further 
contractual charges.
As Ive noted a number of areas where AFH made mistakes during the process of providing 
the abridged advice, I finally considered the distress and inconvenience these caused Mr F. 
Distress and inconvenience
From what Ive seen, AFH did the following:
Delayed the outcome of Mr Fs abridged advice by around four months. This caused 
Mr F considerable inconvenience and stress given his requirement for the transfer to 
take place by a certain date. 
Provided unclear information about the two outcomes of the abridged advice service. 
And the ability to discuss the transfer with a specialist, or to proceed as an insistent 
client. While I dont think these errors directly caused financial loss, I do consider 
they caused Mr F a loss of expectation. And caused the frustration and anger hes 
clearly experienced.
Mr F also said that his adviser had suggested he complain about the time itd taken 
to produce the abridged advice report using AFH's internal procedures. He felt that in doing this, hed been cut off from receiving further advice from his adviser. 
This has caused Mr F to lose trust in AFH. And has therefore led to the further 
inconvenience of him feeling he needs to find a new adviser.
Mr F told this service that he was made to feel as if his opinion didnt matter and that he 
wasnt in control of his own financial information. He also said that the process was hugely 
frustrating and time-consuming. And that he was furious that somebody wouldnt allow him 
to do what he wanted with his money without even discussing it. 
Mr F also said that he would never know whether hed lost out financially or not. And that the 
main impact on him had been the amount of time hed had to spend on the process and the 
frustration, upset and stress itd caused. 
I acknowledge that the delays and poor service AFH provided caused Mr F considerable 
distress and frustration over several months. And that Mr F became so angry and frustrated 
with his treatment that he felt he had no option but to find a new adviser. But I agree with our 
investigator that a total compensation payment of £450 - inclusive of any compensation 
already paid to Mr F  is reasonable here.
Putting things right
I require AFH Independent Financial Services Limited trading as AFH Wealth Management 
to pay Mr F a total of £450 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its poor service 
has caused him.
If AFH Independent Financial Services Limited trading as AFH Wealth Management has 
already paid Mr F the £100 it offered him initially, it should subtract this from the 
compensation it now pays.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Fs complaint. AFH Independent Financial 
Services Limited trading as AFH Wealth Management must take the actions detailed in the 
Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman