DRN-2127209
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the currency exchange rate that The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc (RBS) applied to an international money transfer.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M received an international money transfer into their account in Australia. The 
transfer was from the UK and sent in Australian Dollars. Mr and Mrs M complained to RBS 
saying they were unhappy with the exchange rate used to convert the funds in the UK, and 
felt they had lost money on the exchange.
RBS told Mr and Mrs M that exchange rates used by them differ from those that might be 
advertised at different financial institutions, and the rate would also differ to a customers 
expectations when looking at the foreign exchange market.
Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy so brought their complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. He explained that there was no one set exchange 
rate that all banks must use and that each bank will set its own rate. He went on to say that 
the exchange rate was agreed by the sender here in the UK, so Mr and Mrs M received the 
amount that the sender agreed to transfer. There were also a few days delay in sending the 
funds as Mr and Mrs M hadnt provided their full bank details. 
Overall our investigator thought RBS acted fairly and reasonably when making the transfer. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there was a large amount of money involved in this transfer any small fluctuation in the 
exchange rate would have an impact, so I can understand Mr and Mrs Ms concerns. 
However, looking at what happened Im satisfied RBS acted fairly and reasonably when 
making the transaction.
The sender of the funds agreed the exchange rate with RBS at the time of conversion. The 
agreed amount was then sent to Mr and Mrs M in Australian Dollars. RBS fulfilled their duty 
by transferring to Mr and Mrs M the amount agreed between them and the sender. 
Mr and Mrs M are clearly unhappy with the exchange rate used. But Mr and Mrs M didnt 
take part in the conversion as the rate was agreed between RBS the sender. 
Its common practice for financial institutions to set their own exchange rates. Mr and Mrs M 
say that RBS shouldve used the correct exchange rate of the day. But there is no set 
exchange rate for financial institutions to use as they all set their own rates. And, Ive seen 
no evidence that there were any errors when making the conversion nor when applying the 
agreed exchange rate.
There were a few days delay in RBS making the transfer after it had been agreed by the 
sender because Mr and Mrs M hadnt provided their full bank account details. During that 
time the funds stayed in Australia Dollars awaiting transfer. Its common practice in these 
types of situations for the funds to stay in the converted currency. Its possible the exchange 
rate fluctuated during that time, but the conversion had already been agreed by the sender.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M feel theyve lost on the exchange rate conversion, but Ive seen 
no evidence of any errors made by RBS.
Looking at everything that happened Im satisfied RBS acted fairly and reasonably when 
agreeing the exchange rate, making the conversion and transferring the funds.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 October 2020. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman