DRN-3059649
The complaint
Mr B complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) reduced his credit 
limit without giving him prior notice. He says the way this was dealt with by AESEL had 
negative consequences for him.
  
What happened
Mr B has a credit card account with AESEL. On 18 November 2020, AESEL decreased the 
credit limit on the account. Mr B says he wasnt given advance notice that AESEL was going 
to do this. And that, as result of AESELs actions, he was forced over the new credit limit 
which he says increased his monthly payment and had an adverse effect on his credit file. 
He doesnt think AESEL has treated him fairly.
AESEL says it reviews customers accounts from time to time to ensure affordability. If a 
customer has made late payments, as Mr B had, AESEL says it carries out more reviews 
and there is a greater chance that it will decrease the credit limit. AESEL doesnt think it did 
anything wrong by decreasing the credit limit. It accepts that it didnt give Mr B advance 
notice. But it says it was acting responsibly because prior notice might have led Mr B to use 
more of the available credit before the new limit was applied.
Mr B asked this service to look at the complaint. Our Investigator didnt think AESEL had 
acted unfairly and didnt ask it to do anything. Bur Mr B remains unhappy about the situation 
and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
When reviewing the complaint, I raised some queries with AESEL. As a result, it offered to 
pay compensation of £100 to Mr B to resolve the complaint. Mr B declined this offer, so Im 
now making a final decision about the complaint.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs account allow AESEL to adjust his credit limit up or 
down. It must give Mr B notice of any change to the credit limit, but in the case of a 
decrease, this doesnt have to be advance notice. Im satisfied that AESEL was entitled to 
decrease his credit limit with immediate effect on 18 November 2020. But I need to consider 
whether it acted fairly in doing so, taking account of all the circumstances here.
The credit limit was decreased on 18 November. AESEL sent an email to Mr B timed at 
13:14 that day informing him of the change and saying it would have immediate effect. Mr B 
had already made two purchases on the card that day, for a relatively small amount. Hes 
provided the receipts which confirm these were made before the credit limit was reduced. 
Even though Mr B didnt know AESEL was about to reduce his limit, his balance was within 
the new limit even taking account of these two purchases.
But the following day, 19 November, AESEL applied an interest charge. This debit took Mr 
Bs account over the new credit limit. So it was a debit applied by AESEL, rather than a 
transaction by Mr B, which took the balance over the limit. 
From the information Ive seen, it looks as though interest is usually applied to Mr Bs 
account on the 19th of the month, the date of the statement. I can understand that AESEL 
might have chosen to change the credit limit on the day before the statement was produced 
so that the new limit could be shown on the statement the next day. But, at the same time, I 
think AESEL should have recognised that interest was going to be applied the following day 
and set the new limit accordingly.
The interest charge which AESEL knew would be applied doesnt seem to have been taken 
into account when setting the new limit. It was AESEL which (a) decided the amount of the 
new limit, (b) was in charge of when the interest would be applied and (c) was in a position 
to know how much the interest that month would be. Mr B didnt know about and/or wasnt in 
control of these things. So he couldnt do anything to stop his account going over the new 
credit limit. But AESEL could have prevented this by setting a different limit. If the new limit 
had been just a little higher, Mr B would have remained within it once interest had been 
added the following day.
So it seems that it was the timing of the decrease and the amount set by AESEL which put 
Mr B over his new limit. I note AESEL has said it doesnt charge an over limit fee and I think 
thats fair. But Mr B does seem to have been put in an unfavourable position by AESELs 
actions. AESEL has to provide factual information about Mr Bs account to the Credit 
Reference Agencies. It says it doesnt view the reporting of an over-limit position as 
derogatory. But Mr B is concerned about the impact of this on his credit score. 
I havent seen any evidence that his score was affected negatively as a result of any over-
limit reporting, or that Mr B has suffered any detriment as a result. But I think its fair to say 
that being over the credit limit is unlikely to be viewed favourably by a third party. And 
AESELs own terms and conditions say that Mr B shouldnt go over his credit limit. So it 
doesnt seem fair for AESEL to have taken steps which it knew would have this effect. In the 
circumstances, I think AESEL should pay some compensation to Mr B to reflect this.
Mr B is also concerned about the effect the credit limit decrease had on his minimum 
payment. He says it went up because he had to pay enough to bring the balance within the 
new limit. The minimum payment requested on the November statement was £4 more than 
the amount requested on the October statement. The balance on the November statement 
was less than in October. But the interest charge was more. I think that accounts for the 
difference and I havent seen any evidence that Mr B was charged a higher proportion of his 
balance because he was over his limit.
  
Putting things right
AESEL has already offered to pay compensation of £100. Mr B decided not to accept that 
offer. But, taking everything into account, I think its a fair amount to reflect what happened 
here. So Im going to uphold this complaint and direct AESEL to make this payment to Mr B.
  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. American Express Services Europe Limited 
(AESEL) should pay compensation of £100 to Mr B. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman