DRN-2559600
The complaint
Mr K complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Virgin) unfairly refused his claim brought under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. This related to a hotel booking.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, and the facts arent in dispute. 
So I will summarise them only briefly.
Mr K reserved a hotel room through a booking agency Ill refer to as H. When he arrived, 
he found the room to be unsatisfactory to the extent he declined to stay. This booking was 
paid for through a credit card which was not supplied by Virgin. The cost was $269.55. This 
was later refunded by H.
 
Mr K was able to rebook a room at an alternative hotel  again through H. But this time he 
used his Virgin credit card. The cost of this second hotel room was £509.05. Its the 
additional cost that Mr K wishes to reclaim from Virgin. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
 Section 75 applies only where theres a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier of the relevant services for which the supplier of credit is equally liable.
 The alleged breach of contract relates to the supply of the first hotel room. Virgin did not 
finance the credit card payment through which this transaction was made.
 H later refunded the cost of this first booking. 
 There is no breach of contract or misrepresentation by the second hotel room supplier. 
This is the transaction paid for through credit supplied by Virgin.
 The loss that Mr K incurred allegedly arises out of a breach of contract by the supplier of 
the first hotel room. Mr K wouldnt have suffered any loss had this room been of the required 
standard.  It follows that any additional expense is likely to be consequential upon this.
 As Virgin had no role in the first booking, it cant be liable for any losses  including 
consequential losses - that arise from any breach of contract in relation to that booking.
 Consequential losses (here thats the additional cost) are those losses which arise as a 
reasonably foreseeable consequence of a breach of contract. Virgin didnt have any 
knowledge of the original booking so it wouldnt have had foresight of the consequences of 
any loss that might arise from it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Clydesdale Bank Plc
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman