DRN-2579361
The complaint
Mr J says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr J bought the policy in 1996 when he took out a loan with Halifax. Halifaxs records show 
that Mr J applied for the loan and PPI at a face-to-face meeting in one of its branches. The 
loan was set to last for a year, and included an amount to pay for the policy.
Mr J says he doesnt remember any conversation about PPI, and was unaware that it had 
been added to the loan. He says he wouldnt have agreed to it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Js complaint.
Where the evidence it incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint. Ill explain why.
Halifax no longer has copies of the paperwork Mr J signed when he took out the loan 
and PPI. I dont think thats surprising or unreasonable, given that this was nearly 25 
years ago. 
Of course, I cant be sure how the PPI was presented to Mr J. He doesnt appear to have 
a detailed recollection of the meeting. Again, I dont find this surprising. But Ive seen a 
sample of the type of credit agreement that was in use at the time. It sets out the PPI 
premium, and the interest on the premium separately from the rest of the loan. So I think 
it would have been clear to Mr J that the PPI was a separate product, and additional to 
the loan. And I think its likely that Mr J would have queried the PPI with Halifax if he 
didnt know what it was, or if he didnt want it. 
On balance, taking account of what we know of Halifaxs sales processes at the time, 
I think its most likely that Halifaxs adviser discussed PPI with Mr J, and it was added to 
the loan because he said he wanted to take it. But I can understand how he may no 
longer remember this, so long after the event.
Halifax accepts that it recommended the PPI to Mr J. This means it had a responsibility 
to make sure that it was suitable for him. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based 
on what Ive seen of Mr Js circumstances at the time.
Mr Js told us hed have been entitled to six months full pay, followed by six months half 
pay from his employer at the time if hed been off sick. But if hed made a successful 
claim on the PPI for accident, sickness or unemployment, it would potentially have paid 
out for longer than Mr Js told us hed have been entitled to full sick pay for. Whats more, 
it would have paid out in addition to any payments Mr J received from his employer. So 
he could have used those to meet other, day-to-day, expenses.
Mr Js told us he had significant savings when he took out the loan. But Ive borne in 
mind that hed chosen to protect those savings, rather than using some of his savings to 
make the purchase he took out the loan for. And having the PPI would have enabled him 
to keep hold of his savings if he was off sick for an extended period, or if he lost his job. 
Taking everything into account, I think Mr J could have found the PPI useful.
The cost of the PPI and the interest charged on it are set out clearly on the sample loan 
agreement Ive seen. And Im satisfied, on balance, that the format of the document Mr J 
signed would have been similar. So I think Mr J would have understood how much the 
PPI would cost if he kept the policy for its full term. And Ive seen nothing to suggest he 
couldnt afford it. 
Mr J would have received a limited refund of the PPI premium if hed cancelled the policy 
early. I dont know if Halifax thought about this when it recommended the policy, or if it 
explained the position clearly to Mr J. But the term of the loan was 12 months, and Ive 
seen nothing to suggest he thought hed repay it early. So I dont think this made the 
policy unsuitable, or that better information about it would have put Mr J off taking out the 
PPI.
Its possible that Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover -for 
example provisions about existing medical conditions, or unusual employment situations. 
But from what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, its unlikely that Mr J would 
have been affected by any of those. 
Ive borne in mind that Mr Js told us hed suffered from asthma since childhood. Its true 
he wouldnt have been able to claim under the policy for time off work due to his asthma. 
But in order to make a disability claim under the policy, Mr J would have needed to be off 
work for 30 consecutive days. Based on what hes told us, it sounds as if Mr Js asthma 
was well controlled. And I dont think hed have thought it likely hed be off work for 30 
days due to his asthma. So I dont think the fact that he had asthma would have led Mr J 
to make a different decision about the PPI if the exclusion had been clearly pointed out 
to him.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mr Js lost out as a result of anything Halifax 
may have done wrong. So I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 Juliet Collins
Ombudsman