DRN-4304713
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs F are unhappy with the documents Avantia Insurance Limited trading as 
HomeProtect (Avantia) provided when they took out a contents policy. A claim they made 
was declined by the underwriter.
 
What happened
In November 2022, Mr F took out a new home insurance policy which came into effect in 
December. Avantia was the broker, and a different company was the underwriter. Mr F later 
contacted Avantia to add hearing aids belonging to him and Mrs F. Unfortunately, one of the 
hearing aids was lost. When Mr F and Mrs F tried to make a claim, they were told accidental 
loss wasnt covered.  
Unhappy with the insurers decision to decline their claim, Mr F and Mrs F complained. Mr F 
said he didnt think it had been made sufficiently clear in the policy documents that 
accidental loss wasnt covered. Avantia responded to their complaint. It said the policy had 
been taken out online and chosen by Mr F and Mrs F, so it didnt agree it had been mis-sold. 
Avantia said the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) was clear in setting out 
accidental loss wasnt covered by the policy, and this was also set out in the policy terms 
and conditions.
Mr F remained of the view this wasnt sufficiently clear when they took the policy out. He also 
said he didnt receive the IPID. He referred their concerns to us, and they were considered 
by one of our investigators. Avantia didnt provide their file, despite a number of requests so 
our investigator reached a conclusion based on the information they had. He said Avantia 
hadnt provided sufficiently clear information to Mr F and Mrs F when the policy was taken 
out, and it ought to pay £100 compensation to reflect the trouble and upset experienced.
Avantia disagreed and the case was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision in         
July 2023, and Ive included my findings below:
I think its helpful at this point to confirm Im only considering the complaint about Avantia, 
who were the broker. Im not commenting on the decision to decline Mr F and Mrs Fs claim 
for accidental loss. I understand theyre considering making a separate complaint about this.  
Ill start by addressing Mr Fs comments about adding the hearing aids to the policy. Mr F 
says during the phone call when he added the second hearing aids, he asked about 
accidental damage but not accidental loss. However, I think accidental damage and 
accidental losses are two different circumstances which might cause a policy holder to make 
a claim. With that in mind, Im not persuaded it would be fair to conclude that the adviser 
ought to have gone on to clarify the position with accidental losses if Mr F hadnt asked.  
Ive considered what Mr F says about the policy wording provided to him. He says it wasnt 
made clear at any point during the application process or in the policy wording accidental 
losses werent covered. Mr F says it also wasnt made clear in the online comparison 
website that accidental loss wasnt covered.
However, Ive reviewed the policy wording in the information booklet provided to Mr F and 
Mrs F. And having done so, Im satisfied the wording is clearly laid out. The first two sections 
of the policy documents are an index and definitions that apply. On page 10 of the booklet is 
the section Conditions and limitations that apply to your policy.
In the middle of the following page (page 11) it says:
WHAT IS NOT COVERED
Your policy will not pay for claims which are: 
Accidental Losses
Overall, Im satisfied this section of the policy is clear in setting out the position on accidental 
losses. I consider the information contained in the policy terms was sufficiently prominent 
that it ought to alert Mr F and Mrs F about what might not be covered. 
However, given the comments made by Mr F when submitting the complaint to us, Ive gone 
on to consider the policy wording in relation to specified items. This was the section Mr F 
particularly focused on (page 27) which he says is confusing and misleading. For ease, Ive 
copied this below:
SECTION 5 (B)  SPECIFIED ITEMS ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD)
WHAT IS NOT COVERED
For theft claims, cover isnt provided:
-For Accidental Losses
I acknowledge Mr Fs point here; in that it seems like the accidental losses section is linked 
to theft claims. Avantia says the layout was chosen to address circumstances where a loss 
might be related to a theft. However, on balance, I consider the information set out on page 
11 to be much clearer in setting out the policies position on accidental losses.
Avantia says when taking out the policy Mr F and Mrs F needed to accept the policy terms 
and conditions and agreed to having read the IPID. Mr F says the IPID wasnt available 
using the link on the screen when he took out the policy. Avantia hasnt commented on         
Mr Fs comment the IPID was not accessible. Its not possible for me to know for sure if the 
hyperlink to the IPID wasnt working, or if it wasnt accessed. 
Nonetheless, my role here is to decide what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. And having considered the information provided, Im 
minded to conclude that overall, the policy terms are clear in setting out the position in 
relation to accidental loss. It follows, Im not intending to require Avantia to take any action to 
put things right for Mr F and Mrs F, and Im not going to ask it to pay compensation. 
Avantia didnt respond to the provisional decision. Mr F did, saying:
They maintain they didnt receive a copy of the IPID.
The layout of Section 5 (B) of the policy led Mr F to believe an accidental loss could 
not be considered alongside a theft claim.
Mr Fs interpretation of the this section of the policy was that it was a standalone, 
optional section, and was relevant as the hearing aids were standalone items. 
Since their claim, Avantia has made changes to their policy documentation which 
supports what theyve said about the original wording being confusing.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
However, Ive reached the same conclusion for the same reasons. I appreciate what Mr F 
says about not having sight of the IPID when he took out the policy. I cant know what 
happened during the application process, but I cant see any reason not to take what Mr F 
says as true.
But Mr F and Mrs F did have access to the policy terms, and it is these set out on page 11 
(as referenced in my provisional decision) that I consider most clear in setting the 
underwriters position on accidental losses. Despite what Mr F and Mrs F consider, I am 
satisfied they are sufficiently clear
So, while Im sorry Mr F and Mrs F will be disappointed by my decision, Im not going to 
require Avantia to take any further action in respect of their complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2023. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman