DRN-2942092
The complaint
Mr B complains he was unable to access his online account provided by Advanced Payment 
Solutions Limited (trading as Cashplus).
What happened
On 14 October 2019, Mr B contacted Cashplus querying why he didnt have access to his 
online account. He complained to Cashplus on 23 October 2019, as he said he hadnt had 
access to his online banking for a couple of weeks. Cashplus responded two days later and 
explained that Mr Bs online log in details had expired in July 2019. They asked him to 
re-register his card on their website to regain access to his online account. 
On 26 October 2019, Mr B asked Cashplus how he could re-register, as he was unsure how 
to do this on its website. Cashplus responded asking Mr B to contact its customer service 
department, as it wasnt able to discuss account information through email due to data 
protection. He said he tried to call it, but it didnt pick his call up and if it didnt provide clear 
guidance on how to re-register his card online, he would refer his complaint to this service. It 
responded asking him to contact it by phone. 
Mr B called Cashplus on 6 November 2019 and his online account access was reinstated. 
He also complained to Cashplus that he had spent 20 minutes on the phone with them at a 
cost of £2.52 and he said the advisor didnt help him. He said despite being sent two PIN 
reminders, the PINs werent accepted at ATMs.
On 27 November 2019, Cashplus issued its final response. It didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
It said Mr B had entered his PIN number incorrectly three times and so his card was 
restricted. It said it removed this restriction when Mr B called it on 6 November 2019 and 
following this, it could see Mr B had been able to use his card successfully. It also said 
following a new set of rules introduced by the government, it updated its mobile banking app 
and notified its customers they were required to install the latest version of the app to have 
continued access to their account. 
Mr B was unhappy with Cashplus response and said he didnt see why he had to call it to 
receive a PIN number that didnt work. He said his username and details had been removed 
from Cashplus database without warning or explanation and this occurred every six months. 
He said Cashplus application didnt work correctly and it didnt provide instructions on how 
to re-register for online banking. And he said its terms and conditions said he was entitled to 
see online details of transactions he had made using his card, without interruption or further 
fees. Mr B referred his complaint to our service in January 2020. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint but didnt think Cashplus had done anything 
wrong. She said it was fair for Cashplus to restrict Mr Bs account as he entered his PIN 
number incorrectly three times. And because he hadnt logged into his account for some 
time, his login details had expired. She thought it was reasonable for Cashplus to require 
Mr B to re-register his card to enable him to access his account online. 
Mr B didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at whether Cashplus fairly restricted access to Mr Bs account. And whether it 
was fair for Mr B to be required to re-register his account. Having done so, I think it did. Ive 
explained why below.
Cashplus has a number of legal and regulatory obligations to meet when providing banking 
services to its customers. Banks (and banking service providers) are required to keep 
accounts and their use under review and may need to suspend access or services in order 
to do so. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs account say the following:
"12.5 (a) Under certain circumstances including, but not limited to, where We suspect fraud 
or money laundering, or where You have exceeded or would exceed transaction or Card 
limits We have the right without notice to:
i. Decline funds paid-in and or/transaction(s)
(c) We may at any time and without notice, suspend, restrict, block or cancel Your Card or 
Card account, or refuse to issue or replace a Card for reasons relating to the following: 
(ii) We are required to do so to comply with any applicable regulations or legislation.
Cashplus has explained that in August 2019, Mr B attempted to use his card, but entered his 
PIN number incorrectly three times. So, it restricted use of his card. Cashplus terms and 
conditions allow it to decline transactions and restrict accounts when it suspects the card is 
being used fraudulently. Whilst Mr B may simply have forgotten his PIN, it could appear to 
Cashplus that someone else was attempting to use Mr Bs card and so entered a PIN 
number incorrectly. In the circumstances, I dont think it needed to tell Mr B his account had 
been restricted, given that the account restriction should have prompted him to contact 
Cashplus. So, I think it was fair for Cashplus to restrict Mr Bs account, given incorrect 
details had been entered on three occasions.
In addition, in September 2019, new rules introduced by the government meant that an 
additional layer of security was required to be added to Cashplus systems, to help protect 
customers from fraud. Cashplus terms and conditions entitled it to restrict Mr Bs account in 
these circumstances. In this case, it required Mr B to install a new version of its mobile 
banking app and re-register his card. From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that its 
actions were reasonable. And while I appreciate that it wouldve been concerning for Mr B to 
discover the restriction, Cashplus notified Mr B about the new rules and action hed need to 
take to continue using its mobile banking app.
I appreciate Mr B wanted it to explain how to re-register by email. But Cashplus has 
explained it doesnt service accounts via email and some of the information used in the re-
registration process could be considered confidential. So it asked Mr B to call him. Mr B says 
because he had to call Cashplus, it wasnt free for him to re-register his account.
I cant comment on how Cashplus choose to communicate with its customers. This is a 
decision it makes as a business and not one I can interfere in. However, I can see it had 
already explained to Mr B through email, how he could re-register his card to allow access to 
his online banking. Once Mr B was able to call Cashplus, restrictions were removed from his 
account the same day and since then, he appears to have been able to use it successfully. 
Ive also seen the online registration process and it explains clearly what a customer needs 
to do to register. It also explains why a customer may not be able to log into the mobile app 
and why on some occasions a customer may need to call Cashplus. One of these reasons says, Your username may have expired. If you havent logged in within 60 days of creating 
your login details, your username will expire. To reactivate your username, please call us. 
Ive looked through Mr Bs use of his account and I can see he didnt login periodically every 
60 days. This resulted in his username being reset a number of times. So, Cashplus 
followed its process when it required Mr B to re-register and I think it was fair and reasonable 
for it to do so.
Overall, I appreciate Mr B has had to communicate with Cashplus by email and by phone. 
But Im satisfied Cashplus followed its terms and conditions and internal processes. And 
given the number of different reasons why the account was restricted, I think it was fair for it 
to require Mr B to re-register his card.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021. 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman