DRN-3736318
The complaint
Ms I complains that National Westminster Bank Plc accepted a £10,000 loan application that 
she didnt apply for because she wasnt in the country. Ms I added that NatWest then failed 
to contact her to discuss the payments that subsequently left her account. 
Ms I is being represented by her nephew but for ease of reading Ill refer to Ms I throughout 
the decision. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Around September 2020 Ms I travelled to another country. But in May 2021 a £10,000 loan 
was applied for through online banking that was set up and linked to Ms Is account. Ms I 
returned to the UK in January 2022 and has said it couldnt have been her that applied for 
the loan as she hasnt registered for online banking and she was out of the country at the 
time. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said that NatWest hadnt 
done anything wrong when it accepted the loan application. And that online banking for 
Ms Is account had been set up and used on the same mobile number registered on the 
account  before Ms I was in another country. So, she thought Ms I shouldve reasonably 
known that online banking had been set up and that if she didnt apply for the loan then it 
was likely someone she knew and/or gave permission to have access to her online banking. 
Ms I didnt agree and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said that NatWest has 
unfairly held her liable for a loan she didnt agree to. She said that she has been 
discriminated against because she cant speak English, nor can she read or write. She 
added that NatWest shouldve stopped and contacted her about the payments before they 
could be sent after the loan funds had been deposited into her account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Ms I feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Ive firstly considered if NatWest did anything wrong when it accepted the loan application. 
The loan was applied for through an online account that was set up through a mobile phone 
number registered on Ms Is account. The loan documents were also sent to the registered 
address. I appreciate Ms I says she didnt receive these, but NatWest needs to forward the 
loan documentation to an address or e-mail contact it has on the system  which is what it 
did. So, I dont think NatWest acted unfairly when accepting the loan application. 
Ive then considered whether Im persuaded Ms I entered into the loan and therefore if its 
fair for NatWest to hold her liable for it. Ms I has said shes never had internet banking. But 
NatWest has provided a copy of the online banking records. These show that various 
undisputed transactions (ranging from £25 to £800) were made on her account in 2019 
before she left the country. And a few years before the loan was applied for. Ms I has said 
that she only banks in branch and cant read or write but Im not persuaded that she wouldnt 
have been aware of these transactions. Especially some of the larger transactions for £800 
and £750, or that no assistance was available to her in monitoring her account, due to the 
assistance she is getting in bringing this complaint and in her testimony to this service that 
confirms whenever she needed to make a transaction in branch she had a friend or relative 
to help her. 
As these payments werent reported to NatWest, I dont think I can reasonably say that Ms I 
wasnt aware of the online banking on her account. And it follows, for the same reasons, I 
cant say that her testimony is credible enough to persuade me that I should uphold this 
complaint or agree that she didnt authorise the later transactions after the loan was paid into 
her account. In the circumstances, I dont think NatWest holding her liable for the loan is 
unfair as I cant place weight on Ms Is testimony that she either didnt take out the loan 
herself or gave another person permission to do so on her behalf.  
Ms I feels NatWest has discriminated against her and her mental health has suffered as a 
result of this issue. But I dont agree NatWest has discriminated against Ms I by accepting 
the loan and then holding her liable. NatWest didnt unfairly accept the loan for the reasons 
Ive mentioned above. And I dont think its unfairly decided that Ms I is likely to have taken 
out the loan or given a third-party permission to apply for it by allowing that person access to 
her bank account.  
Its unfortunate to hear about Ms Is current mental health and the effect this issue has had 
on her. Despite my natural sympathy for the situation in which she finds herself, Im not 
persuaded NatWest has done anything wrong, so I wont be asking it to clear the loan nor do 
I make any further award against it. 
As a result, I dont think NatWest has unreasonably held Ms I liable for the loan. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman