DRN-2352289
The complaint
Mrs M complains because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt paid a claim under 
her travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs M held an insurance policy, provided by URV. The policy included cover for Mrs Ms 
declared pre-existing medical conditions. 
Mrs M was on holiday abroad and was due to return to the UK on the afternoon of 15 March 
2020. However, Mrs M heard that the country she was in would be closing its borders due to 
Covid-19 before her original return flight. She telephoned the Foreign and Commonwealth 
Office and was advised to leave her destination by any means necessary via a neighbouring 
country, whose borders were still open. 
Mrs M booked a new flight for the morning of 15 March 2020 to return to the UK via a 
neighbouring country. Mrs M later found out that her original return flight had been cancelled. 
Mrs M made a claim under her policy with URV for the cost of her new return flight. 
URV said Mrs Ms policy only covered cutting short a trip in specific circumstances, and 
Mrs Ms claim didnt fall under any of those situations. URV also said Mrs Ms policy had an 
exclusion for pandemics and, even if shed remained abroad, she would have had no cover 
for her cancelled original return flight. 
Mrs M complained to URV and explained she had various health conditions which meant 
she couldnt have stayed abroad until the borders of the country she was visiting reopened. 
Mrs M queried whether she should obtain medical evidence in support of her claim but URV 
said it didnt think this would help and advised her to contact her airline to seek a refund for 
the cancelled original return flight. 
As Mrs M remained unhappy, she brought her complaint to our service. 
 
Our investigator looked into what had happened but said she didnt think Mrs Ms claim was 
covered under her policy with URV. Mrs M didnt accept our investigators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making my decision, Ive also had regard to relevant industry rules and guidance 
which say URV should treat its customers fairly, should handle claims fairly and shouldnt 
unreasonably reject a claim.
Mrs Ms travel insurance policy  like all travel insurance policies  doesnt provide unlimited 
cover. Mrs M declared her medical conditions to URV, and cover was accepted by URV for 
those medical conditions, but that doesnt mean URV is responsible for paying for every 
unexpected situation which Mrs M may have found herself in. 
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ms policy set out URVs obligations to her. These say URV 
will pay for certain costs if a policyholder needs to come home early for one of a list of 
specified, insured reasons. There reasons are as follows:
your early return home because of the death, injury or illness of:
-you, a friend or close relative with whom you are travelling.
-a close relative who lives in your home country. 
-a friend who lives abroad and with whom you are staying. 
or
you, a friend or close relative who is travelling with you being required in your home 
country for jury service or as a witness in a court of law
or 
you, a friend or close relative who is travelling with you being called back by the 
Police after your home, or the home in your home country of your friend or close 
relative, or usual place of business in your home country, having suffered from 
burglary, serious fire, storm or flood.
or
you, a friend or close relative who is travelling with you, who is a member of the HM 
Forces has been ordered to return to duty. 
Ive seen evidence confirming that the country Mrs M was in closed its borders from midnight 
on 14 March 2020 and that the Foreign and Commonwealth Office said any British travellers 
in that country who wished to leave by air should make arrangements to do so before then. 
So, I understand why Mrs M decided to book a new return flight and I dont think her decision 
was an unreasonable one. 
Mrs M has explained she has long-term ill-health and I have no doubt that it would have 
been extremely difficult for her if shed been stuck abroad. But the policy terms and 
conditions relating to cutting a trip short apply regardless of the state of a policyholders 
health or what medical conditions they have. When making my decision, I can only consider 
the facts as they actually happened and not what might have happened in the hypothetical 
situation of Mrs M being stranded. Based on the information Ive seen, Im satisfied Mrs Ms 
claim arose due to the country she was visiting shutting its borders. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs M but there is simply no cover under the terms and conditions of 
her policy for the circumstances she is claiming for, so I wont be asking URV to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman