DRN-4181187
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as E, is unhappy that ClearBank Limited (CB), wont 
reimburse money that E lost because of a scam.
E has an account with Tide, which is provided by CB. As such, CB is the respondent 
business and reference to CB includes the actions of Tide. 
Es complaint is brought to this service by its director, whom Ill refer to as Mr D.
What happened
Mr D was telephoned by scammers pretending to be from CB who convinced Mr D to 
transfer the balance of Es account to what he believed was another CB account. Mr D later 
realised that E has been scammed and contacted CB about it. CB were able to recover 
some, but not all, of the money that E had been scammed out of. Mr D felt that CB shouldnt 
have allowed the large payment to leave Es account in the first instance without confirming 
the legitimacy of the payment with E. So, he raised a complaint on Es behalf.
CB responded and explained that they didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly by processing the 
payment without confirming the legitimacy of the instruction first. Mr D wasnt satisfied with 
CBs response, so he referred Es complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that it had been understandable 
that Mr D had fallen victim to the scam. But they also felt that the payment Mr D instructed 
was clearly out of keeping with how E maintained its account such that CB should 
reasonably have confirmed the legitimacy of the instruction before allowing it to complete. 
Our investigator also felt that if CB had contacted Mr D to ask him about the payment 
instruction, it was likely that the scam would have been uncovered and prevented at that 
time. As such, our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in Es 
favour and that CB should reimburse to E the money it had lost. 
CB didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, so the matter 
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a business such as CB is expected to 
process payments and withdrawals that an account holder authorises, in line with the terms 
of the account. However, where an account holder made the payment because of the 
actions of a fraudster, it may sometimes be fair for the business to reimburse the account 
holder, even though they authorised the payment.
This is because the regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, sets out a 
requirement for businesses such as CB to protect their account holders from fraud and 
financial harm. And this includes monitoring transactions to look out for unusual or 
suspicious activity that might suggest an account holder was at risk, with the onus on the 
business to intervene before allowing a potentially illegitimate payment to complete. 
In this instance, Mr D was convinced by the scammers to effectively transfer the full balance 
of Es CB account to another account. And so, Ive reviewed Es CB account history to 
determine whether I feel this instruction was one which I feel CB reasonably should have 
flagged as being suspicious such that some form of intervention by CB should have occurred 
before the payment was allowed to complete. 
Ultimately, upon consideration, I do feel that the payment instruction under consideration 
here was one which was clearly out of keeping with how E generally managed and 
maintained its account and therefore was one which CB should have recognised as being 
potentially suspicious such that some form of intervention by CB was merited.
One reason I say this is because the transfer amount  approximately £14,400  was 
unusually high and out of keeping with Es account usage in general. Notably, the majority of 
transfers from Es account are much smaller in nature, with only a handful of payments 
exceeding £4,000  over £10,000 less than the payment in question  having taken place 
since the account was opened in August 2019, and with the largest of these amounting to 
just over £5,700.
CB note that soon after the account was opened in August 2019, Mr D made a purchase 
using the account for close to £40,000, and Im aware that CB have consider this payment 
when assessing Mr Ds spending pattern. However, this service generally considers how an 
account has been used during the twelve months leading up to any disputed payment to be 
a more reflective indicator of usual spending for the purposes of monitoring an account. 
Accordingly, I do feel that CB should have reasonably considered the £14,400 payment 
instruction to have been unusual and out of keeping with how E generally maintained its 
account and so should have intervened and contacted Mr D to question the payment 
instruction before allowing it to complete.
Furthermore, given that Mr D believed he was acting under instructions of a representative 
of CB in instructing the transfer, I feel that had CB contacted him and made further enquiries 
about the seemingly out-of-character payment, that it would have been highly likely that the 
fact that Mr D was in the process of being scammed would have been uncovered at that time 
and that the scam would have been prevented. 
CB have explained that Es account was a business account and that they dont feel that a 
business instructing a larger than usual payment should be considered as suspicious, given 
the inherent nature of business. And CB have also explained that they do have systems in 
place to monitor payment instructions but reiterated that the instruction in question wasnt 
considered by them as being potentially suspicious. 
But I continue to feel that the £14,400 payment instruction in question was clearly out of 
keeping with how E used its account, given that this payment was nearly £10,000 more the 
largest legitimate payment on Es account in the preceding twelve months, and I dont feel 
that the account should be reasonably subject to a lesser degree of protection or scrutiny 
simply because it was a business account and not a personal account. 
While I accept that CB do have to strike a balance between executing payment instructions 
and causing inconvenience to their customers, and that they do have systems in place to monitor for suspicious transactions and instructions, I dont feel that the use of these 
systems has led to a fair outcome in this instance. 
And this is because, ultimately, as Ive explained previously, I feel that CBs systems should 
reasonably have flagged the payment instruction as being unusual and as being one which 
merited some form of intervention before it was allowed to complete  and this is regardless 
of any potential inconvenience this may have caused E, had the instruction been legitimate.
Finally, Ive considered whether Mr D himself could and should reasonably have acted 
differently here, in response to the scam, such that he should be considered partially 
accountable for the loss that E incurred. 
But it seems clear that this was a very sophisticated scam, including that the scammers used 
a cloned telephone number belonging to CB so that the call that Mr D received appeared to 
him to be being received from CB directly. And Mr D has also explained how the caller 
explained that they were from CB, knew that E held a CB account, and asked Mr D to verify 
his identity for security purposes via a QR code that they sent to him.
Mr D now understands that by scanning this QR code, he gave the caller access to Es 
account. But given that this is a relatively new method to access accounts, and that it was 
unfamiliar to Mr D, I can appreciate why he didnt recognise the danger at the time.
Furthermore, because the caller then had access to Es account, they were able to use the 
information within to verify some recent transactions that had been made, which served to 
further convince Mr D that the caller was genuine. And in consideration of all these points, I 
dont feel it was unreasonable or negligent for Mr D to have fallen victim to this scam as he 
did, and so I dont feel that E should fairly be held jointly or partially accountable for the loss 
it incurred here.
All of which means that my final decision here will be that Ill be upholding this complaint in 
Es favour and instructing CB to reimburse to Es account the presently unrecovered loss 
from the scam  which I understand to be £10,010.10  along with interest on that amount 
for the time the amount has been unavailable to E, calculated at a rate of 8%.
It's also my understanding that CB have offered to make a payment of £200 to E as 
compensation for the inconvenience E incurred resulting from a delay in CB reimbursing to 
Es account the funds that they were able to recover. This compensation amount feels fair to 
me in consideration of this specific inconvenience, and so my instructions here will also 
include that CB must make this payment to E, if it hasnt done so already.
Putting things right
CB must reimburse the presently unrecovered loss from the scam along with interest on that 
amount for the time the amount has been unavailable to E, calculated at a rate of 8%.
CB must also make a further payment of £200 to E if it hasnt already done so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against ClearBank Limited on the basis 
explained above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman