DRN-3238366
The complaint
Mr H complains Arrow Global Limited havent treated him sympathetically when dealing with 
his debt.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Ive copied the relevant sections of it below, 
and it forms part of this final decision.
Mr H took out an educational loan with a company Ill call M in August 2015. The loan wasnt 
due to be paid back until six months after the educational course had been completed  
allowing time for Mr H to find employment in his chosen field. The first payment was 
originally due in December 2016.
Unfortunately, due to events outside Mr Hs control he couldnt complete the course, and he 
didnt keep up the repayments. M then sold the account to Arrow in July 2018.
Arrow first got in touch with Mr H in November 2018, and ultimately defaulted the account on 
27 March 2020.
Mr H says hes pleaded his case with them, asking them to return the position of the 
agreement as it was at the start, but theyve just continued demanding payment. He said 
theyve also recorded duplicate settlement and default dates on his credit file.
Arrow replied to Mr Hs complaint and set out his repayment history along with the terms and 
conditions of the loan hed signed up to. They said because hed not kept to the agreement, 
it was right theyd defaulted the account  so they wouldnt be removing any negative 
information theyd recorded. They suggested Mr H get in touch with the credit reference 
agencies (CRAs) to find out why they werent recording things correctly.
Mr H got in touch with us and asked us to look into things. When doing so, he reiterated his 
concerns over how the loan was sold  which hed mentioned when speaking to Arrow.
One of our Investigators looked into things. Regarding the sale of the loan, she explained 
that was Ms responsibility, as Arrow werent involved in the sale of the loan to Mr H. And in 
relation to the actions Arrow took to default the account she felt they were fair. But she 
identified one CRA where Arrow were reporting the wrong information, so she asked them to 
correct that.
Arrow asked for some information to establish what it was that was wrong, which our 
Investigator provided, and then we never heard back. So, the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not set out the personal circumstances Mr H mentioned, out of respect for his privacy, 
but I want him to know how sorry I am for whats happened.
Recording the default
In Arrows response theyve set out a number of actions taken by M, meaning the first 
payment was now due in May 2018, rather than December 2016 as originally agreed. 
Payments for May and June 2018 were received, but then July and August 2018 payments 
werent successful  and M couldnt reach Mr H to discuss this despite trying on multiple 
occasions through phone, text and letters. M sold the account to Arrow in July 2018, they 
first contacted Mr H in November 2018 to say they now owned the account, and a Notice of 
Default (NoD) was issued on 26 February 2019  saying Mr H was now in arrears of 
£3,766.48. This NoD said payment needed to be made by 26 March 2019, otherwise theyd 
end the agreement and the full balance would be due.
The NoD also said Arrow may issue a default against Mr H if the full amount isnt cleared. 
Mr H didnt make the payment, and on 27 March 2019 Arrow have then sent another letter, 
saying the full balance is now due. Arrow also defaulted the account at this time.
Its generally expected a default will be applied when a debtor is between three and six 
months in arrears. So, I think the default has been applied fairly, but I think it should have 
been applied earlier  as Ill set out in the next section.
When should the default have been applied, and how should this affect Mr Hs credit files
As Ive said above, its generally expected defaults should be applied when three months, 
and up to six months, worth of payments have been missed.
In Mr Hs case, the last payment was made in June 2018, meaning the first payment missed 
was July 2018, and the account was ultimately defaulted in March 2019  nine months later.
I think in part that could have been caused by M selling the account to Arrow in 
November 2018, who may not have fully realised Mr Hs payment history. But, when 
applying a default its still something Id expect Arrow to have taken into account. As a 
default should usually be applied at most six months after the last payment, Ill require them 
to backdate the default date to December 2018, rather than March 2019.
There has also been a duplication of information on Mr Hs credit file, as our Investigator 
found M and Arrow were both reporting the same information. Arrow havent disputed that, 
so Ill be requiring them to put that right too.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr H replied and said thank you.
Arrow didnt reply by the deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided any further information for me to consider, Ive seen no 
reason to change the outcome I reached in my provisional decision. So, Ill still be upholding 
this complaint.
Putting things right
I require Arrow to:
Update all credit reference agencies with the default date of 27 December 2018
Ensure no duplicated information appears with any of the credit reference agencies  
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and require Arrow Global Limited to take the actions Ive set 
out in the Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman