DRN-2632089
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R says Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey National) mis-sold them 
a payment protection policy (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out PPI in one of Santanders branches in 1999 at the same time as they 
applied for a mortgage. The policy covered them for accident, sickness and unemployment. 
They paid a monthly amount for it.
The adjudicator didnt recommend Mr and Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld. Mr and 
Mrs R disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is contradictory (as some of it is here), I have based my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely given the available 
evidence and what we know about how Santander sold PPI at the time.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs R say they were told they had to have PPI to get the mortgage. They say as 
Santander is now saying this is not the case and it has never been a requirement, they were 
lied to and this is clearly mis-selling. Santander says the sale would have followed its 
standard process. The adviser would have discussed all aspects of the policy to allow Mr 
and Mrs R to decide if the policy met their needs. It says it has no evidence to indicate that 
its adviser unfairly influenced them to take out PPI.
I cant know what was said in the meeting, it wasnt recorded and there are no meeting 
notes, so Ive thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Rs comments and looked at the available 
paperwork.
Ive seen a copy of the PPI application form that was completed and signed in the branch 
when Mr and Mrs R applied for their mortgage. Theres nothing on the form that I think could 
reasonably have led them to believe the cover was mandatory.  And I think its most likely 
this form was the result of a conversation between Mr and Mrs R and the representative 
from Santander, and reflected what Mr and Mrs R said they wanted in terms of the type, 
level and split of cover. I say this based on what we know about Santanders sales process 
at the time. 
I accept its possible that on this occasion Mr and Mrs R were led to believe they had to have 
the PPI in order to get the mortgage, but I have to reach a conclusion about what I think is 
most likely, based on the balance of the evidence. And Ive found nothing in the paperwork 
from the time of the sale that indicates the PPI was presented as mandatory. 
I have thought carefully about everything Mr and Mrs R have told us about the sale. And 
whilst I dont doubt these are their honest recollections of the meeting, I have to take into 
account that it was over 20 years ago and that this might affect what they now remember. 
Overall, I think its more likely that Santander made Mr and Mrs R aware that they had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it. 
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs R, so it had to check if the policy was right 
for them. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time I think it was. I say this 
because:
Mr and Mrs R were eligible for the policy.
It seems Mr and Mrs R werent affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys 
main benefits. Whilst Mrs R had a pre-existing medical condition from what theyve 
told us I dont think its likely she would have expected to make a related claim. So 
I think it unlikely better information about the policys exclusions and limitations would 
have changed their decision to buy it. 
Mr R was entitled to at least six months sick pay and given her employment its most 
likely Mrs R was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if she was 
sick. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to their work benefits, for up to 12 
months. It also gave up to 12 months redundancy cover. They also told us family 
would have helped but thats not suitable alternative protection. Its not guaranteed, 
and peoples circumstances can change. Given the consequences for Mr and Mrs R 
of defaulting on a large and long-term debt secured against their home, I think the 
PPI would have been useful for them if they were sick or lost their job(s).
The cost and benefit were clearly set out on the PPI application form and the PPI 
was reasonably priced for what it offered, and apparently affordable. And they could 
cancel it without further cost if at any stage they no longer wanted it.
Santander also had to make sure Mr and Mrs R got all the information they needed to decide 
if the PPI was right for them. Its possible the information wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But for the same reasons I find the PPI was suitable, I dont think they wouldve been 
put off taking out the policy if they had received better information. 
So, it follows I dont think Mr and Mrs R have lost out because of any problems with the sale.
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman