DRN-3477763
The complaint
Mr H complains that Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd (IBUK) charged him fees and sold his 
shares without telling him.
What happened
Mr H opened an execution only dealing account in March 2015. He credited his account with 
around £12,000 and bought some shares, leaving a few hundred pounds in cash. He told us 
he knew the price of his shares had gone down, so he was happy to keep them until such 
time that he could make a profit. He didnt access his account.
He told us he wasnt aware that IBUK was debiting his account with a fee each month. And 
that IBUK sold some of his shares, at a loss, to fund the continuing fees without his 
agreement. He only accessed his online account in late 2020 after he received an email from 
IBUK saying it would close his account unless he took action. He then realised hed been 
charged the monthly fees and that his shares had been sold. He said he had to sell more 
shares  again at a loss - to cover the fees.
IBUK said the fees had been charged in accordance with the customer agreement and were 
shown in the daily, monthly, and annual statements posted to his account. It said that when 
Mr Hs account went into a negative cash balance, it notified him that it would be selling 
some shares to bring the account back into credit.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that 
IBUKs website set out its required minimums and its fees, so he was satisfied it had made 
Mr H aware hed be charged a fee. And the investigator thought IBUK had acted in line with 
the agreed terms and conditions when it sold Mr Hs shares. He was also satisfied that IBUK 
had messaged Mr H to let him know he should access his account because thered been 
activity.
Mr H didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
He doesnt recall seeing any information about the fees when he went through the 
contract.
The fees dont seem reasonable for the service that hes used.
He wasnt properly made aware that IBUK was going to sell his shares  he received the 
same email saying that there is a message for you. The email should have made it 
more obvious that something major was going to happen on his account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator for the 
following reasons:
Mr H signed an execution only agreement with IBUK. It was his responsibility to monitor his 
account on a regular basis. I appreciate he didnt feel he needed to access his account 
because he hadnt carried out any transactions. But I dont think its unreasonable, even 
when a consumer hasnt traded, that they should check their account from time to time to 
make sure everything is as expected. Had Mr H accessed his account, he would have 
realised much sooner than he did that he was being charged a monthly fee.
Mr H says he did access his account in the first few months. But IBUK explained it waives its 
non-activity fee for the first three months whilst consumers familiarise themselves with its 
systems and service.
IBUK is an online broker providing services for active investors. I find this is reasonably clear 
from its website and its terms and conditions. To reflect this service, it requires accounts to 
generate a minimum of US$10 commission each month, unless the net value of the account 
is US$100,000, or equivalent. For accounts which dont meet these minimal requirements, a 
fee of US$10, or equivalent, is debited each month. I find IBUK charged Mr H this monthly 
fee.
Im satisfied that fees were charged in line with IBUKs published scale of fees which was 
available on its website when Mr H signed his agreement. Mr H says he doesnt recall 
seeing this information. But Im satisfied IBUK made him reasonably aware of it. As well as 
being available on its website, IBUK told us that shortly after Mr H opened his account, on 
10 April 2015, he was sent a message with a direct link to the information about the 
minimum requirements.
Each month, IBUK sent Mr H an email to tell him that his monthly activity statement was 
available. This should have reasonably prompted him to access his online account and hed 
have then seen the fees that were being charged.
Mr H says he doesnt think the fees are fair or reasonable. Its not my role to decide how 
much a business can fairly charge for its services, so I cant comment on that. But Im 
satisfied that the fees were set out reasonably clearly and that Mr H agreed to them by 
signing the agreement and opening an account.
The fees were taken from the cash in Mr Hs account. Once this had all been used, IBUK 
sold some of his shares to pay for the fees. The agreement sets this out in clause 26 as 
detailed by our investigator. Im satisfied that IBUK acted in line with the agreement when it 
sold Mr Hs shares.
I find IBUK didnt need Mr Hs consent to sell his shares, because his account was in deficit. 
IBUK messaged Mr H the day before it sold his shares to tell him that was what it was going 
to do. And it emailed him to alert him to access his account. In doing so, I think it treated him 
fairly and reasonably. Mr H says the email should have been more specific or should have 
been worded differently to alert him to the fact that something important was about to take 
place on his account. But I dont find there was any obligation on IBUK to provide information 
in the email. By signing the agreement, Mr H had consented to all communications being 
electronic. It wasnt unreasonable, taking into account the nature of the service IBUK 
provided, for the detail of its communications to be uploaded to his account, with an email 
prompt that a message had been uploaded.
I accept that the email about possible closure of his account was worded differently which 
did prompt Mr H to access his account. But it doesnt follow that IBUK had an obligation to alert him to other actions on his account by email, other than telling him a message had 
been uploaded.  
Im not unsympathetic to the position in which Mr H finds himself. But I need to be fair to both 
parties and, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont find IBUK has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably and I dont find it is obliged to refund any fees or compensate Mr H for the loss 
on the sale of his shares.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman