DRN-3258013
The complaint
Mr D complains about the transfer of the defined pension benefits he held in the British 
Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says he was advised to transfer 
by Fiscale Financial Services Limited (Fiscale) and another financial business (which Ill 
call Firm J). He believes that the advice provided was flawed which has resulted in him 
suffering a significant financial loss.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint was partly outside of our jurisdiction, and that the 
part we could look at, shouldnt be upheld. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr Ds complaint was within the jurisdiction of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. But I thought that the complaint should not be upheld. A 
copy of the background to the complaint, and my provisional findings, are below in italics and 
form part of this final decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
In March 2016, Mr Ds employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure its 
business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with members 
referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included transferring the 
scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). 
Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to a private pension 
arrangement.
Mr D was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security of his 
preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to Fiscale by a 
colleague. Mr D spoke with Fiscale in January 2017, but it referred him to Firm J as Fiscale didnt 
have the necessary permissions to advise him on the transfer of defined- benefit pension 
schemes.
Firm J ultimately advised Mr D to transfer out of the BSPS in March 2017. Mr D was referred 
back to Fiscale in April 2017 following the completion of the transfer to a personal pension. 
Fiscale then advised Mr D to invest his funds in line with his balanced attitude to risk.
In 2021 Mr D complained about the advice to Fiscale and Firm J. However, Firm J went into 
liquidation. I understand Mr Ds complaint about this business was referred to the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
Fiscale told Mr D it hadnt provided him with any advice to transfer his pension  it had 
simply provided advice as to how his funds should be invested once the transfer had 
completed. Fiscale said Mr D was aware that it could not provide him with any pension 
transfer advice, which is why he was referred to Firm J.
Mr Ds representative referred his complaint to our service, saying Fiscale should be held 
liable for the advice as the two firms had worked collaboratively. The representative said Mr 
D had been verbally advised to transfer by Fiscale.
Our investigator didnt agree. He didnt think Fiscales actions had gone beyond introducing Mr D 
to Firm J. He wasnt persuaded that Fiscale had given Mr D any advice to transfer or that Mr D 
had relied on such advice. He said that as Fiscale had only referred Mr D to Firm J, that is it only 
acted as an introducer, this aspect of his complaint wasnt within our jurisdiction. He said the 
advice Fiscale gave after the transfer, in respect of how to invest the pension fund, was suitable 
for Mr D
As Mr D didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My understanding of the representatives position is that Fiscale should be held liable because 
it verbally advised Mr D to transfer his pension and Mr D relied upon that advice. It also argues 
there was a collaboration between Fiscale and Firm J.
Can Mr D complain about the actions of Fiscale before his BSPS benefits were transferred?
Our investigator thought that the actions of Fiscale before his BSPS benefits were transferred 
did not fall within the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction. I dont agree with this. Ill 
briefly explain why.
Our jurisdiction to consider complaints is set out in the FCAs Dispute Resolution (DISP) 
rules. There are a number of factors that determine whether or not we can consider a 
complaint, ranging from whether the complainant is eligible to whether the activity 
complained about is something we can investigate.
It isnt in dispute that Mr D is a consumer as per DISP 2.7.3(1).
However, DISP 2.3.1 states that we can only consider complaints relating to certain specified 
activities, including regulated activities, and ancillary activities. Ancillary activity is defined in 
the FCA Handbook as:
An activity which is not a regulated activity but which is:
a)carried on in connection with a regulated activity; or
b)held out as being for the purposes of a regulated activity.
In relation to ancillary activities, the Handbook definition quoted above clearly allows that the 
ancillary link may exist both forwards and backwards in time. A firm may carry on ancillary 
activities in connection with regulated activities it intends to carry on in future as well as 
regulated activities it is in the process of carrying on or has already carried on.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Mr D met with Fiscale initially and his financial circumstances 
were discussed. It then introduced Mr D to Firm J, with the intention of providing full pension 
planning advice. Fiscale would then provide advice which would include advice about where to 
invest his transferred personal pension investments after Mr D had received advice about the DB 
transfer. Fiscale says it didnt give Mr D any advice about the DB transfer.
So, the key issue here is whether the earlier fact-finding and introduction to Firm B can be 
considered as ancillary to the later ongoing advice.
Having looked at everything Im satisfied there is a clear connection between the introduction, 
transfer advice, and ongoing advice, and that the first link in that chain would therefore be 
ancillary to the third.
Fiscale says it wrote to Mr D and said Again, as I explained at the meeting, should a pension transfer of your British Steel monies be in your best interests and go ahead, once the monies 
have been transferred, this is where Fiscale Financial Services Ltd would come back into the 
picture. Our agreement with the firm concerned is that if a transfer goes ahead, and subject to 
your agreement, we would then take over the management of the pension funds to provide you 
with ongoing servicing and advice.
So, it seems clear that both parties envisaged the introduction leading to Fiscale providing 
ongoing advice on the funds the DB transfer would release later on. So, I think Fiscales prior 
activities were ancillary to its later provision of ongoing advice.
For this reason, I think the complaint is within our jurisdiction regardless of whether or not 
Fiscale went beyond its role of introducing into arranging or advising on the pension.
DISP 2.3.1 states that we can consider a complaint about acts or omissions that are ancillary 
activities carried on in connection with a regulated activity. Im satisfied that there is a regulated 
activity to which the introduction can be connected. As Ive said, I think there is an ancillary link 
between Fiscales prior activities and the later ongoing advice, and on that basis I believe we can 
consider the complaint about those prior activities.
Did Fiscale advise Mr D to transfer?
Fiscale did not have permission from the FCA to advise on the transfer of defined-benefit 
occupational pension schemes. For this reason, it had an arrangement in place with Firm J, 
where Firm J would provide advice on the transfer of the occupational scheme and the client 
would be referred back to Firm J for ongoing advice if the transfer went ahead.
Having considered the available evidence, Im not persuaded that Fiscale advised Mr D to 
transfer his BSPS benefits.
The evidence shows that Fiscale met with Mr D in January 2017. The adviser sent Mr D an 
email on 17 January 2017 to confirm what had been discussed. The email said that as had 
been explained in the meeting, Fiscale didnt have the necessary permissions to advise on 
pension transfers. It said that Fiscale could refer Mr D to a firm that did have the required 
permissions, and if that firm determined that a transfer was in Mr Ds best interests, they would 
refer Mr D back to Fiscale to provide ongoing servicing and advice. The email reiterated that 
Fiscale would not be providing advice on the pension transfer and that it would only take 
regulatory responsibility for Mr Ds pension for ongoing advice. The email asked Mr D to 
respond to confirm his understanding of this and to confirm he was happy to be referred to 
another firm for pension transfer advice. Mr D responded by email the same day saying he 
understood and asked Fiscale to make the referral so he could proceed with the transfer.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Fiscale did anything that could be considered as 
amounting to advice before Mr D transferred his pension. Fiscale met with Mr D once and 
following this meeting the email it sent to Mr D set out clearly what it could and couldnt do. 
There was no reference to any discussion about the viability of a transfer. And the email did 
not presume that a transfer would go ahead  it simply referred to the possibility of this, but 
only if it was in Mr Ds best interest.
I appreciate that Mr D may have been already inclined to transfer his pension following this 
initial conversation. And Mr D says that Fiscale verbally advised him to transfer in this meeting. 
But given how clear the email was that Fiscale couldnt advise him on his pension transfer, if 
the information in the email didnt accurately reflect the conversation Mr D had with the adviser, 
I think he wouldve said so at the time. But Mr D confirmed his understanding that Fiscale 
couldnt and wouldnt be advising him on the pension transfer.
I think its likely that Fiscale and Mr D discussed his objectives and reasons for wanting to 
transfer out of the BSPS, and its possible Mr D believed Fiscale was advocating for the transfer 
of his benefits at this stage. But overall, I think Mr D wouldve understood that it was Firm J, not 
Fiscale, that was providing him with advice to transfer his pension. I havent seen any evidence 
to show that Fiscale gave Mr D a personal recommendation, either verbally or in writing. The 
evidence Ive seen shows that it was Firm J that looked into Mr Ds retirement needs and ultimately produced a recommendation to transfer out of the BSPS. Fiscale didnt provide any 
advice until after Mr Ds BSPS benefits had been transferred to a personal pension and he 
needed ongoing investment advice.
Ultimately, Im satisfied Firm J gave the advice for Mr D to transfer out of the BSPS. And I 
dont think Fiscales earlier involvement should automatically make Fiscale liable for the
suitability of the pension transfer advice provided by Firm J. It is my view that Firm J remains 
fully responsible for the advice it gave Mr D to transfer.
I have nevertheless considered whether Mr D would have still opted to transfer his benefits out 
of the BSPS to a personal arrangement if Firm J had advised him not to transfer. Mr Ds 
representative says Mr D was persuaded to transfer based upon his interactions with Fiscale. 
But on balance I dont think Mr D wouldve gone against the advice provided by Firm J. If Firm J 
had provided Mr D with clear advice in writing against transferring, explaining why it wasnt 
suitable for him, I dont think Mr D wouldve acted against that advice purely based on his 
earlier discussions with Fiscale.
In light of what Ive said above, its my decision that it was Firm Js advice that ultimately 
enabled Mr D to transfer. If this advice was unsuitable, then I think Firm J is responsible for Mr 
Ds losses flowing from the transfer.
Did Fiscale and Firm J embark on a joint venture? 
Mr Ds representative says a joint venture existed between Fiscale and Firm J to facilitate Mr D 
transferring out of the BSPS and that both businesses remain jointly liable for any financial loss Mr 
D has suffered.
For the reasons Ive already set out above I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold 
Fiscale liable for the advice given to Mr D to transfer his BSPS benefits. Although Mr Ds 
representative states that Mr D was verbally advised to transfer by Fiscale, Im satisfied Mr D 
transferred his BSPS benefits because Firm J advised him to do so, independently of Fiscales 
involvement. So, I think Mr Ds losses flow from Firm Js advice, rather than because of any 
interaction he had with Fiscale before that.
Did Fiscale treat Mr D fairly and have due regard to his best interests
Ive also considered if Fiscale treated Mr D fairly and acted in his best interests by partnering 
with Firm J.
As I have said above, Fiscale did not have the necessary regulatory permission to advise Mr D 
on the transfer of his BSPS benefits. So, Fiscale could not have advised Mr D against 
transferring, based on what it may have generally known about the regulators starting position 
that it wont usually be in a customers best interests to transfer out. As Fiscale
didnt have the necessary permissions, it referred Mr D to Firm J, which was regulated by the 
FCA to provide pension transfer advice. I dont think Fiscale could reasonably be expected to 
carry out further due diligence on Firm J, particularly as Firm J had the necessary permissions 
from the FCA to provide this advice. And, as a regulated adviser, it was also required to treat Mr 
D fairly, act in his best interests and provide him with suitable advice.
It's possible that Fiscale gave Mr D a positive impression of Firm J, but for all the reasons 
Ive given above, I dont think that means that it should be held responsible for Firm Js 
advice.
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that it was Fiscales advice that ultimately led to Mr 
Ds decision to transfer out of the BSPS, without the actions of Firm J. I am also not persuaded 
that Fiscale made an error or treated Mr D unfairly in the role it carried out.
Because of this, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require Fiscale to pay compensation to Mr D or to take any further action in response to this 
complaint.Fiscale, and Mr D, received my provisional decision. 
Fiscale agreed with what I had said. Although it did want to note that my reference to the 
contact that took place before the referral to Firm J as earlier- fact finding may not be 
correct. It said that any information it gathered at this point was brief and only led to it 
referring Mr D to Firm J. It wasnt a full fact-finding process. This was done after Mr D had 
transferred his BSPS pension. 
Mr D, or his representative, didnt have anything to add to what I said
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fiscale thinks my reference to fact-finding at the time before it referred Mr D to Firm J is 
incorrect. But it did gather some information about Mr Ds circumstances. Even if this was 
very brief and a fact find document wasnt completed. So, I dont think its unreasonable to 
call it fact-finding. The important distinction here whether advice was given or not. So, in any 
event, this doesnt make a material difference to my decision. 
Essentially, Fiscale and Mr D didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional 
decision. So, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons. Im 
still not minded to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman