DRN-2792073
The complaint
Mr J complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund him transactions he says he didnt make 
or authorise. And that the bank didnt do enough when reported that his account had been 
used for fraudulent purposes. Hes also unhappy that Monzo closed his account.
What happened
Mr J had an account with Monzo. Between 24 and 28 December 2019, Mr J says that 
multiple fraudulent transactions were carried out on his account after someone took over his 
account.
 
I wont be listing all the disputed transactions as both parties are aware of which transactions 
are in dispute. However, in summary the transactions consisted of online payments in and 
out of Mr Js account using Mr Js banking app, ATM withdrawals and card payments. Mr J 
says he has no idea who was responsible for the transactions and has lost money belonging 
to him. 
Monzo reviewed the activity on Mr Js account. Following its review, it decided to close 
Mr Js account without notice on 30 December 2019. The bank wrote to Mr J to let him know 
hed need to make alternative banking arrangements. 
In response, Mr J contacted Monzo on 31 December 2019. Mr J told the bank that hed lost 
his bank card and mobile phone around 15 December 2019. And that someone else was 
using his account for fraud. He said hed been a victim and the fraudster spent £80 of his 
own money that was paid into his account on 24 December 2019. So, he wanted the bank to 
refund him this money. 
He explained that his mobile phone didnt have a passcode and his PIN was stored in the 
notes section of his phone, which is how the fraudster was able to obtain his PIN and use his 
mobile banking app to make the disputed transactions  in effect he said someone had 
taken over his account. Mr J also told the bank that a friend had ordered a new card for his 
bank account using his lost phone on 24 December 2019.
Monzo said it hadnt done anything wrong when it closed Mr Js account. And had done so in 
line with the terms and conditions. However, it accepted that it hadnt looked into Mr Js fraud 
claim at the time. And had only done so after Mr J had brought his complaint to our service. 
It apologised and offered Mr J £50 compensation for any trouble and upset its delays had 
caused.
Monzo investigated Mr Js fraud claim and decided not to refund the disputed transactions to 
him. It said Mr J had failed to keep his banking credentials safe. In summary it said:
Mr Js genuine card, PIN and online banking were used to make each transaction
The mobile phone and IP address which had been used to make the online 
transactions were the same ones used by Mr J when he opened his account with the 
bank in August 2019
A new bank card was ordered using Mr Js mobile phone and sent to his home 
address. The card had to be activated via Mr Js mobile banking app using the 16 - 
digit number on the card and theres no explanation for how an unknown third party 
could intercept the card when it was delivered to Mr Js home address
Transactions were made over a number of days which was unusual for a fraudster 
and biometric evidence showed Mr J was still in possession of his mobile phone and 
accessed his mobile banking using his fingerprint on 26 December 2019
Several transactions were made to existing payees/contacts including members of 
Mr Js family after he says his account was taken over by a fraudster
Mr J hadnt offered a plausible explanation for how an unknown third party was able 
to intercept both his bank card, PIN, take his phone and obtain his banking 
information 
Mr J told the bank that a friend ordered his new bank card using his lost phone which 
suggested Mr J was aware who was carrying out the disputed activity on his account, 
yet he didnt alert the bank or report the matter to the police
The balance of Mr Js account was spent by 25 December 2019, (including the £80) 
so he wasnt out of pocket
Mr J had failed to comply with the term and conditions of his account to keep his 
security details and payment instruments safe
Unhappy with this response Mr J brought his complaint to our service. He wants the bank to 
refund him the money he says he lost - £80.
 
One of our investigators looked into his complaint. She looked at the banks technical 
evidence, and what Mr J had said about events. Having done so she concluded it was most 
likely Mr J had breached the terms and conditions of his account by sharing his bank card 
and account information with another person. So, Monzo wasnt liable to refund Mr J. She 
pointed out that Mr J hadnt lost out financially and had spent the balance before someone 
else began using his account. She also said the bank hadnt done anything wrong when it 
closed Mr Js account. And its offer of £50 for the trouble caused by its delays was fair.
Mr J disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint, so the complaint has 
come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, the regulators rules, guidance and standards, the codes of practice and, 
where relevant, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant times.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts, the transactions, and the 
evidence. Both Mr J and Monzo have read the investigators view. So, I wont repeat every 
detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. However, I can assure Mr J that 
Ive read the file, including his comments and evidence.
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr J authorised the 
payments, Monzo is entitled to hold him liable. The relevant regulations, to this effect, are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). Mr J says he didnt make the 
disputed transactions and doesnt know anything about them, so my primary concern is to 
come to a view about whether or not I think Mr J authorised the transactions by making them 
himself or he allowed them to be made. If he did permit the transactions, then we generally 
wouldnt ask the bank to refund them. Mr J can also be held liable for the payments, even if unauthorised, if Mr J failed with intent 
or gross negligence to take reasonable steps to keep his personalised security details safe, 
failed to use his payment instrument in accordance with the terms and conditions, or failed to 
notify the loss, theft misappropriation or unauthorised use of the instrument without undue 
delay. These regulatory requirements are also reflected in the terms and conditions of Mr Js 
account. So, for example, if Mr J deliberately shared his details with someone else, and they 
used those to make the payment  even without his permission - hed be held liable. 
Firstly. Im satisfied that the payments were authenticated using Mr Js personalised security 
credentials, his genuine bank card and PIN. What seems to be in dispute here is whether 
Mr J consented to the disputed transactions  hes said he knows nothing about the 
transactions and someone else took over his account. Having looked at all the evidence, I 
think its unlikely that an unknown person made these transactions without Mr Js knowledge 
or permission. I say this because:
Monzos technical records show the transactions were made using Mr Js genuine 
card, mobile phone, online banking credentials and PIN. So, Im satisfied that 
whoever made the transactions was able to do so because they had Mr Js bank 
card, knew his PIN, was in possession of his mobile phone and knew his security 
banking credentials
Mr J says he lost his Monzo bank card and mobile phone around 15 December 2019. 
And that his PIN and email address were recorded on the notes section in his phone 
which didnt require any password to access. However, this contradicts the banks 
evidence. According to Monzos records Mr J had installed biometric security on his 
phone to protect access to his online banking which was his fingerprint. The banks 
technical evidence shows Mr J accessed the app using his fingerprint on 26 
December 2019 which is after Mr J says he lost his phone
Mr J didnt report the loss of his card or compromise of his security credentials 
around 15 December 2019. And he only notified the bank when Monzo closed his 
account on 31 December 2019. Mr J hasnt given a plausible explanation why he 
didnt notify the bank sooner about the loss of his card
I think its unusual that Mr J would arrange a direct credit into his account on 24 
December 2019, if as hes suggested he hadnt had access to his account for two 
weeks, but hadnt made any attempts to regain access to his account or get a new 
card
From looking at the account activity money was regularly sent and received from and 
to usual payees (including members of Mr Js family) both before and after Mr J says 
he lost control of his account, his bank card and mobile phone. Its not clear to me 
why an unknown third party would send money to known contacts of Mr J as theyd 
be no benefit in them doing so.
Mr J says he ordered a new bank card which was sent to his home address. I can 
see from the evidence, that the new bank card was requested on 24 December 2019, 
using Mr Js mobile phone. And that this new bank card was subsequently used to 
make a disputed transaction. Mr J hasnt provided a plausible explanation for how an 
unknown third party would be aware hed ordered a new bank card and was able to 
intercept the card at his home address in order to use it fraudulently
Mr J says hed lost his mobile phone sometime around 15 December 2019  yet hes 
confirmed his phone was used to order a new card on 24 December 2019. Initially he 
said he did this himself. However, Mr J also told Monzo that his friend had been the 
one to order the replacement card on his lost phone, which suggests to me that if it 
wasnt Mr J, he was aware of who was using his account
the new bank card was activated via the banks automated security system, on 28 
December 2019. The card could only be activated by confirming the full 16-digit card number in-app, so either Mr J activated the card himself (and his phone wasnt lost) 
or he knew the person who had access to his account at that time and gave them the 
card to activate it using his phone
some of the disputed transactions were made using the mobile phone Mr J had set 
up when opening his account with Monzo. And from the same IP address hed used 
since opening his account. So not only would the person have needed Mr Js security 
details, they would have also needed access to Mr Js mobile phone and access to 
his IP address 
So, when I weigh everything up, Im not satisfied theres evidence of fraud here. In my view 
the most likely explanation is that Mr J either made the disputed transactions himself or he 
let someone else use his bank card and account credentials to make the transactions.  So, 
in the circumstances it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Monzo to refund Mr J. 
Mr J says the bank didnt look into things for him when he told the bank hed been a victim of 
fraud. Monzo accepted it hadnt looked into Mr Js fraud claim at the time. And had only done 
so once Mr J had brought his complaint to us. Monzo apologised and offered Mr J £50 for 
the delay. I think thats fair and its a reasonable reflection of what went wrong, and the 
impact Monzos mistake and delays had on Mr J. So, I wont be asking the bank to do 
anything more to resolve this aspect of Mr Js complaint. 
Finally, Mr J says Monzo treated him unfairly when it closed his account. I accept having his 
account closed caused Mr J some inconvenience, but Monzo was entitled to close Mr Js 
account at any time on giving two months notice; in some circumstances it could do so 
without notice. In this case, Monzo closed Mr Js immediately. In my view that was 
reasonable given the concerns it had about how Mr J was operating his account. So, whilst I 
appreciate this caused Mr J inconvenience, I cant say the bank has done anything wrong or 
treated him unfairly when it closed his account without notice. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained  Monzo Bank Ltd should pay Mr J £50 to resolve his 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman