DRN-1850404
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Homeserve Membership Limited missold him a home emergency 
policy.
What happened
Mr B took out a home emergency policy to provide plumbing cover for his flat. Mr B 
contacted Homeserve because the internal stop tap for the water supply to his flat was 
broken. When Homeserve visited to carry out the repair, the engineer said that the water 
would need to be turned off for the whole block of flats, which he wasnt allowed to do, so the 
repair wasnt carried out.
Mr B complained to Homeserve because he said that a freeze kit should have been used to 
stop the water supply within the flat. This would have meant that the water supply for the 
whole block wouldnt have needed to be turned off to carry out the repair. He said that the 
policy had been missold as it wasnt suitable for a flat. Homeserve replied that the terms and 
conditions of the policy said that work would only be carried out on areas within Mr Bs 
property boundary. It couldnt turn off the external stop tap as this belonged to the building 
management.  It didnt think the policy had been missold. It was specifically designed to 
cover flats and had been sold on that basis.
Mr B complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that 
the terms and conditions didnt refer to the use of freeze kits and that it was reasonable for 
Homeserve to choose whether to use one. The policy only covered work within Mr Bs 
property and didnt cover work involving the main block of flats. As a result, the policy hadnt 
been missold.
As Mr B did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B says he was mis-sold a home emergency policy because Homeserves because its 
engineer wouldnt use a freeze kit on a pipe. He said this meant that he wasnt suitable for a 
flat. 
When a business is selling insurance, it has a responsibility to provide clear information 
about the cover being provided, the cost and any significant exclusions. The information 
should put the buyer in an informed position to make a decision about whether to buy the 
policy.
Homeserve has confirmed that Mr B bought his policy over the phone. This phone call isnt 
available, as Homeserve doesnt have phone calls dating back to that time period, so I dont 
know what was discussed. So Ive looked at the documents that Mr B was provided with, 
including the renewals documents that he was sent for the period in which he made this 
claim. This says that the policy includes cover for A leaking internal plumbing system. It 
also says What is covered? You are covered for incidents relating to your internal plumbing 
and drainage. The engineer will resolve the immediate problem by repairing or replacing 
leaking pipes; clearing blockages in waste pipes; repairing taps; restoring toilet facilities; 
investigating the causes of noisy pipes and quietening these where they can be accessed. 
The engineer will carry out such repairs to resolve the immediate incident.
So, I think the policy gave Mr B a reasonable expectation that his leak would be covered. 
When Mr B contacted Homeserve, it did send an engineer to deal with the leak. However, 
the engineer didnt carry out the work because he said that the main stop tap for the block of 
flats would need to be turned off. 
Looking at the policy coverage section, it says If your property is a flat, any issues relating 
to any elements you do not have responsibility for; such as communal areas are not 
covered. So, I think it was clear that where something wasnt the policyholders 
responsibility, in this instance the block stop tap, that the engineer wouldnt be able to deal 
with that aspect.
However, in this instance that doesnt seem to be the real issue. In Mr Bs case, he wanted 
the engineer to use a particular tool, a freeze kit, in order to isolate the water supply within 
the flat. Ive read the policy and it makes no reference to what tools an engineer will use to 
carry out a repair. However, I wouldnt expect a policy to specify a list of tools that an 
engineer would or wouldnt use whether generally or for particular types of call-out. So I dont 
think that it was unusual that the policy didnt say anything about freeze kits specifically.
Mr B has also said that the policy should have explained that if the stop tap was jammed that 
the water supply for the block would need to be turned off. Although I would expect a policy 
to explain the cover that it provides, I wouldnt expect it to explain how each type of repair 
would be carried out.
Mr B also said that seized taps were listed as being covered under the policy, but that as 
the engineer wasnt able to fix his, that this showed the policy wasnt suitable. But my 
understanding is that the engineer was willing to carry out the repair, just not in the way that 
Mr B wanted. If Mr B had arranged for the water to be turned off for the building, which I 
accept may have been no small task, an engineer would then have returned to carry out the 
repair.  
So, looking at all the circumstances of this case, I dont think that Homeserve mis-sold Mr B 
the policy or that it needs to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman