DRN-3139575
The complaint
C complains that a payment into its account with ClearBank Limited (Clearbank) was 
delayed.
What happened
On 4 April 2021, C was due to receive a credit from a customer for £70.11 by the faster 
payments method. It was sent to its bank account which was provided by Clearbank. It was 
credited to Cs account on 7 April 2021.
C complained. It said the delay was inconvenient, and said its director had to call three times 
to try to resolve what had happened. He had to use his personal credit card to pay expenses 
rather than the business account.
Clearbank apologised. There had been a technical problem which caused the delay in the 
funds transfer. They upheld Cs complaint but didnt offer any compensation.
C brought its complaint to us. Our investigator said Clearbank had dealt with Cs complaint 
reasonably. The delay in the credit had caused some inconvenience, but there hadnt been a 
significant impact on C. Clearbank had resolved the matter in a timely manner. He couldnt 
see there was any financial hardship caused to the business. Cs director had used his 
personal credit card to pay some expenses - and there hadnt been any interest charged on 
it. So, he felt that Clearbanks apology was enough.
C asked that an ombudsman look at its complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that on 4 April 2021, C was due to receive a credit of £70.11 from a customer, but 
it wasnt credited to Cs account until 7 April 2021  four days later. Cs director called 
Clearbank on 6 April 2021 to advise them what had happened. Clearbank then ensured the 
credit was paid in on 7 April 2021. 
When looking at complaint such as this, we look at how the business dealt with it  did they 
resolve it quickly and effectively; and did the customer suffer any financial loss or 
inconvenience.
I can see that after Cs director contacted Clearbank, they resolved the matter within a day  
so that was quick and effective. They also told C that it had been caused by a technical 
problem and apologised. Their final response was sent on 22 April 2021  so that was also 
prompt.
I can see from Cs bank statements that there wasnt any obvious financial pressure caused 
by the delay. And  while Cs director had to use his personal credit card for a short period, 
he also told us that the account was paid in full at the end of its monthly cycle - and so no 
interest was paid.
I can accept that Cs director had to call Clearbank to resolve matters, but I dont think that a 
payment of compensation in the circumstances of this complaint is justified. Clearbank 
apologised and sorted out things quickly and effectively  and that was appropriate, fair and 
reasonable for what happened.
And so  I wont be asking Clearbank to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman