DRN-3879571
The complaint
Mrs G complains about her home emergency policy with Aviva Insurance Limited. 
Aviva are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. Any reference to Aviva includes the 
actions of any agents  such as engineers acting on their behalf when carrying out the boiler 
health check under the contract of insurance. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mrs G and Aviva. In my decision, Ill 
focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mrs G had a boiler health check shortly after she took out this policy with Aviva. The health 
check failed and remedial works were advised. Mrs G entered into a separate arrangement 
for these works - outside of the contract of insurance she had with Aviva. 
Mrs G has later argued that these remedial works werent necessary and was unhappy with 
how they were carried out. Shes alleged that she was taken advantage of.
Our Investigator considered the complaint, but he recommended that it not be upheld. Mrs G 
didnt accept his findings and the complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Where theres an 
alternative version of events between both parties, Ive to reach my decision based on what I 
think is more likely than not  based on the available evidence. 
I note that Mrs G has referred to a Subject Access Request made to Aviva. As sufficient time 
has been provided for both parties to provide their submissions prior to my consideration of 
the complaint for a final decision and the deadline that Mrs G requested (15 December 
2022) has passed  Ive considered the available evidence here. 
What my decision will address 
My decision is only considering the actions of Aviva here and their appointed agents when 
carrying out the boiler health check. A boiler health check isnt uncommon for this type of 
policy and essentially tells the insurer (Aviva) if the boiler is in good working order and its 
one they will insure. 
This boiler health check was carried out as part of the contract of insurance. When carrying 
out this check, the third party engineer (whom Ill refer to as B1 in my decision) were acting 
in capacity as appointed agents of Aviva. At the heart of Mrs Gs complaint is her 
unhappiness at the actions of the third party engineer in relation to the remedial works 
afterwards - following the failed health check.
But those actions were arranged and carried out privately, outside of the regulated contract 
of insurance - and therefore fall outside of our Services remit. Therefore, the scope of my 
decision only extends to the boiler health check. Any complaint about the remedial works or 
associated impact wont be considered here.  
The boiler health check
Aviva have said that the boiler failed the health check as it wasnt safely secured to a wall at 
that time. Mrs G then entered into a private arrangement with B1, outside of their capacity as 
Avivas agents for the remedial works. Mrs G is correct that Aviva are responsible for their 
agents (B1s) actions  but this only extends to their actions when carrying out the health 
check under the regulated contract of insurance. Therefore, any complaint or unhappiness 
arising out of the remedial works isnt something that Aviva are responsible for.
In her response dated 11 December 2022, Mrs G said: Their contractor, (engaged by them,) 
has made false representations of a fault that did not exist, either recklessly and/or to further 
extract money from me, that was not required. Mrs G has also provided written testimony 
from a third party engineer (B2) whod seen the boiler a few weeks before the health check 
had been carried out. 
Ive weighed this evidence up against: 1 - Mrs G agreeing to have the remedial works carried 
out and 2 - B2s testimony states they seen the boiler in early January 2022. This health 
check was carried out towards the end of February 2022  presumably up to 6 weeks after 
B2 had seen it. Had Mrs G reason to believe the works werent required, it wouldnt be 
unreasonable to expect that shed have queried them or referred to the earlier inspection by 
B2 which had happened in early January 2022. But theres no evidence that she did. 
Have Aviva done anything wrong that they need to put right?
On balance, I dont find sufficient persuasive evidence to conclude that Aviva have done 
anything wrong when carrying out the boiler health check. Therefore, Ive not gone on to 
make a finding in relation the Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 that have been referenced by 
Mrs G. 
Mrs G has also said in her response dated 11 December 2022 that she was forced to invest 
in corrective works that were not required. But this is contradicted by B1, whove said the 
customer was not from around the area, she asked us if we could recommend a builder to 
help her with the wall and then if we could help her resolved [sic] her issues, in which we 
did.
Ive also kept in mind, as per the policy terms, that if Mrs G strongly felt the work wasnt 
required (due to the earlier inspection), cover wouldve been suspended for up to 28 days 
with Aviva to allow for the works to be carried out and shed have been free to use the boiler 
- but it wouldnt have been insured. Mrs G also had the option of cancelling her cover with 
Aviva at that point.  
Finally, Mrs G raised a point about not being told how much the repair would cost. As per the 
terms, Aviva would let Mrs G know what needed done and the cost - if it was something they 
could fix. As it wasnt something Aviva were going to resolve, I dont find it unreasonable that 
Mrs G wasnt told the remedial costs at that point. My decision will disappoint Mrs G, but it brings to an end our Services involvement in trying 
to informally resolve this dispute between her and Aviva.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint - for the reasons explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman