DRN-3428329
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the way Haven Insurance Company Limited settled a third party 
claim made against his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B reported an incident involving another vehicle to his insurer, Haven. Mr B had 
proceeded out of a side road onto a main road. As he did so, he collided with another car. 
Haven said it would settle the claim as a fault claim against Mr B due to the circumstances. It 
settled a claim from the third party. At renewal Mr B noticed that his premium had gone up 
and contacted Haven about this. He was unhappy about the amount Haven paid to settle the 
third partys claim. He didnt think it should have settled the claim by paying the third party a 
total loss settlement for their car as he said it wasnt badly damaged. He said he had photos 
of the car but Haven hadnt asked him to send them. He didnt realise the third party claim 
had been settled as it had until he noticed the renewal price. 
Haven didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint, It said it had settled the claim reasonably and in line 
with the policy. 
Mr B asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator thought Haven hadnt done anything 
wrong. Mr B didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide liability as this is the role of the courts, But we can look at whether an 
insurer reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy terms.   
Haven  like most if not all motor insurance policies Ive seen  has a term which allows it to 
take over the defence and settlement of a claim in Mr Bs name. This means Haven can 
make a decision that Mr B may not agree with, but the policy allows Haven to do so. 
We dont disagree with this term in principle, provided Haven can show it treated Mr B fairly 
when applying it. 
The circumstances of the incident as Mr B described means Haven decided to record the 
claim as a fault claim. Haven received an engineers report from the third party setting out 
the damage to their car. The costs to repair the car following the incident meant it was 
uneconomical to repair. So Haven paid a total loss settlement based on the market value of 
the third partys car at the time of the incident. Having reviewed the report, the damage was 
consistent with the accident circumstances and when reviewing the photo provided by Mr B 
of the other car. I understand Mr B doesnt agree, but I dont think Haven acted 
unreasonably in relying on the information available to it when deciding how to settle the 
claim. Haven also paid negotiated third party hire car costs. 
I realise Mr B will be disappointed with my decision. But I think the way Haven settled the 
third party claim was reasonable and in line with the policy. I think it treated Mr B fairly and 
as it would any other customer in the same circumstances. So Im not asking Haven to do 
anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman