DRN-4210243
The complaint
Ms S via her representative complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) have failed to 
refund money that she lost as part of an investment scam. 
What happened
Ms S clicked on an advert on a social media platform and was contacted by someone who 
said they worked for a trading company that I will call B. From what I can see, Ms S made 
debit card payments totalling over £8,000 to a variety of crypto exchanges. The funds were 
then sent on to B.
Ms S wanted to withdraw the profits she could see on Bs website, but after much back and 
forth she was unable to do so. At this point Ms S realised that she had been scammed.
Ms S raised a complaint with Santander as she believed that Santander should have 
stopped her from making the payments in question.
One of our investigators looked into this matter and they decided that the transactions were 
not sufficiently out of character to warrant an intervention by Santander. That the calls that 
did happen between Ms S and Santander went far enough and even if they had gone further 
it would not have prevented the scam. They also found that there was no other means of 
Santander recovering the funds.
Ms Ss representative did not agree with this and therefore her complaint was passed to me 
to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
It isnt in dispute that Ms S authorised the payment she made from her Santander account 
(where her funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammers). The transaction was 
requested by her using her legitimate security credentials provided by Santander, and the 
starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in 
order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Santander should have done more to prevent Ms S from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, 
if it was particularly out of character. However, having thought about Ms Ss account activity, 
I do not think the payments she is disputing should have been regarded as particularly 
unusual.
The payments were not of such a large amount that it would represent a significant deviation 
from what would be considered as usual activity. I accept that there was a larger payment 
than Ms S usually made but this was not sufficiently large to have prompted an intervention 
from Santander especially as Ms S by this point had made a number of payments to various 
crypto exchanges including three to the exchange that this payment went to.
So, having considered the payments Ms S made, Im not persuaded there was anything that 
ought reasonably to have triggered Santanders fraud monitoring systems or that would have 
indicated she was in the process of being scammed. I therefore do not consider there to 
have been any obligation on Santander to have intervened any further.
That said I can see that there were a number of calls between Santander and Ms S. I have 
listened to these calls and given the value of the transactions these related to and the 
answers that Ms S gave I dont think Santander needed to do anything more.
But even if Santander had gone further, I dont think this would have prevented the scam. I 
say this because Ms Ss representative has explained that Ms S was coached on the 
answers to give and she fully trusted the scammer. So, Santander would likely either have 
been reassured by the answers Ms S would likely have given or at the very most Santander 
would have provided a generic warning based on the coached answers Ms S would likely 
have given. Had a generic warning been given I think that Ms S would still have proceeded 
as she did when given a generic warning during one of the calls early on in the scam.
Ive also thought about whether Santander did enough to attempt to recover the money Ms S 
lost. But as the payments were made by debit card the only real recourse to recover the 
funds would be via a cashback. In this instance given that the payments were to purchase 
crypto which was provided by the exchanges I dont think a chargeback would have been 
successful because she essentially received the goods that she paid for.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Ms S, and Im sorry to hear she has been 
the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Santander can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for her loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman