DRN-3571305
The complaint
Mr I complains that a car he took on finance from Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited (VWFS) was not of satisfactory quality. He says he should be able to reject it.
What happened
In April 2021 Mr I entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement with VWFS for a used 
car. The car was three years old and had covered around 58,000 miles. It came with a 
dealers warranty. 
In October 2021 Mr I contacted the dealership to report some issues with the car. He said 
that there was an AdBlu warning on the dashboard, that tyres were wearing unevenly and 
that there was an abnormal noise from the engine. 
The dealership looked at and resolved the first issue, under the warranty. It could not find 
any reason for the uneven tyre wear and suggested that Mr I have the wheel alignment 
checked. It did not believe that the engine was making an unusual noise. It later compared 
the engine noise to that produced by two very similar models but no found no discernible 
difference in the sound. 
Mr I was not satisfied with the dealerships findings and referred the matter to VWFS. It 
suggested an independent inspection, but Mr I did not think that was necessary; he said he 
wanted to reject the car. VWFS did not agree to that, and Mr I complained to this service. 
Our investigator considered what had happened but was not persuaded that there was 
anything wrong with the car. Mr I did not accept her recommendations and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case. He said that further issues had arisen since he had referred 
the complaint to us. The investigator explained that Mr I could refer those new issues back to 
VWFS in the first instance and that an ombudsman would consider his complaint about the 
engine noise. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained, I will not be considering in this decision any issues which have 
arisen since Mr I raised this complaint. He may able to raise those as a new complaint, but 
this decision concerns only the matters which Mr I raised when he initially referred this 
matter to us.
VWFS was under a contractual duty to provide Mr I with a car which was of satisfactory 
quality  meaning the quality a reasonable person would expect in the circumstances. 
It appears that there was a fault with the car, shown by the AdBlu warning. That issue was 
however resolved under warranty. I am satisfied that the issue with the tyres was one of 
wear and tear  wheel alignment does need to be checked and adjusted from time to time, 
and the need for that was consistent with the cars age and mileage at the time. 
Mr Is primary concern was however with the engine noise, especially when starting the car 
from cold. I am not persuaded however that this was a fault. The dealership was unable to 
identify any fault with the car. Further, its engine noise was no different from that produced 
by two other cars of the same model and with the same, or a very similar, engine. I have not 
of course had the benefit of hearing the comparison myself, but I have no reason to think 
that the dealerships report of its investigation is not accurate. Mr I had the opportunity to 
arrange an independent inspection but declined it, so there is no competing evidence for me 
to consider. 
I do not believe therefore that the car was not of satisfactory quality.      
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mr Is complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman