DRN-3177211
The complaint
Mr M complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as GeorgeBanco.com (Everyday) 
didnt carry out enough checks when they agreed to a loan he was guaranteeing.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr M agreed to be the guarantor on a loan of £15,000 for Mr B, a friend. 
Everyday provided Mr B with the loan. It was secured by way of a Guarantee and Indemnity 
agreement and was to due be repaid in 48 monthly instalments of £555.91. Mr M said he 
only agreed to be the guarantor as Mr B gave him assurance that he would maintain the 
repayments. Mr M said in early 2020 he was asked by Everyday to step in to cover the 
repayments for the loan. He complained to Everyday as he didnt think theyd done enough 
to check the affordability of the loan for Mr B.
Everyday said theyd carried out checks on Mr Bs credit, employment, affordability and 
identity. They said their affordability assessment had shown Mr B had disposable income 
after making an allowance for the loans monthly repayment. And they hadnt seen anything 
to raise any concerns about Mr B not being able to sustain his repayments. 
Mr M wasnt happy with Everydays response and he referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator said that Mr M was aware of his responsibilities as a guarantor. But she 
didnt think Eveyrday had done enough to verify Mr Bs financial circumstances given the 
amount of the loan and the monthly repayment. She said Mr M should be removed from 
being the guarantor for the loan. All payments hed made should be refunded plus 8% simple 
interest. And any adverse information about the loan should be removed from his credit file.
Everyday didnt agree. They said that the loan would have improved Mr Bs financial 
situation. And that the checks theyd made showed he was effectively managing his credit. 
They asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ms complaint is that Everyday didnt do sufficient checks on the borrower  Mr B
before he was approved for the loan. Mr M  says Mr B lied to him about his circumstances. 
Everyday has a responsibility to complete reasonable and proportionate checks on the 
borrower before approving any guarantor or loan. This meant that Everyday needed to carry 
out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether the borrower and Mr M could 
afford to make all the loan payments.
Ive considered the following questions:
Did Everyday obtain Mr Ms properly informed consent to become guarantor for the 
loan?
Did Everyday carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
M was in a position to sustainably repay the loan, in the event that the borrower did 
not? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the 
time? And
did Everyday make a fair lending decision (as Mr M would be equally liable for this
loan with the borrower).
Mr M signed a Guarantee and Indemnity agreement in respect of the loan. That meant that,
should the borrower be unable or unwilling to make the required repayments, Everyday 
could seek repayment from Mr M. And Mr M isnt disputing that he knew what his role was 
as a guarantor, and that he could be asked to step in to cover the loan. Mr Ms dispute is that 
Everyday didnt make a fair lending decision as Mr B had other loans that Mr M said he later 
found out about. And he said if Everyday had properly checked Mr Bs financial situation 
they wouldnt have lent to him. Which would have meant Mr M wouldnt have been a 
guarantor for the loan. So, its the final question that Ive considered.
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice when someone
complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending. Theres no set list for what 
reasonable and proportionate checks are. But Id expect lenders to consider the specific 
circumstances of the loan application. What constitutes a proportionate affordability check 
will generally depend on several factors such as financial history, current situation and 
whether there are any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. Consideration should 
also be given to the amount, type and cost of credit they are borrowing/guaranteeing.
But there are factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check should be for 
a given loan application. For example:
the consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher amount from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the consumer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
Form their checks Everyday said they were aware from Mr Bs credit file that hed had a 
defaulted account and another guarantor loan, where there had been a couple of missed 
payments. Although Everyday said Mr B gave a valid reason for this. And that the loan was 
to be used to settle nearly all the outstanding credit. But I dont think Everyday thought 
carefully enough about what this credit history showed about Mr Bs overall financial 
situation. 
Everyday said the loan was for consolidation and that Mr B had disposable income of £450 
which makes me question the need for another loan when he was able to meet his existing 
commitments. Everydays affordability assessment showed Mr B was self-employed, and a 
monthly figure for his income but I havent seen any verification of this income. The 
repayment of the new loan was £555.91 a month, which equated to around a third of Mr Bs 
declared income. The loan was also over a period of four years, and from Mr Bs application 
it appeared hed recently moved back to living with parents, a situation Id expect would 
change over the four-year period of the loan.I dont agree with Everyday that the credit history showed Mr B was managing his finances I 
think it showed his reliance on this sort of expensive credit. And the level of indebtedness 
would increase for Mr B on taking out the new loan. I dont think the fact alone that this 
expensive loan was taken out to repay other expensive credit means it was fairly provided.
Taking the factors outlined above I think given the amount of the loan, the amount of the 
monthly repayment in ratio to Mr Bs income, I think Everyday should have done further 
checks to verify Mr Bs true financial situation..
So taking this all into account, Im satisfied that proportionate checks werent completed ; 
and any further checks would I think have likely shown the loan was unaffordable. And this is 
supported by how quickly Mr M was asked to step in to cover the loan repayments. I dont 
think Everyday could reasonably have been satisfied that providing this loan to Mr B wouldnt 
put him in a worse position by increasing his overall debts and tying him into a high cost 
credit deal that hed signed up to pay for the next four years, increasing the overall level of 
indebtedness of the borrower in a way which was unsustainable, and as such shouldnt have 
been approved.
It follows therefore that Mr M shouldnt have been accepted as a guarantor for this loan; as
it shouldnt have been approved in the first instance. 
Putting things right
To put things right I ask Everyday Lending Limited trading as GeorgeBanco.com to:
release Mr M from any obligations he has under the Guaranty and indemnity
agreement, and then terminate it;
refund any repayments Mr M has made towards the loan, with 8% simple
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement; 
remove any information recorded on Mr Ms credit file as a result of the loan.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending Limited trading as 
GeorgeBanco.com to take off tax from this interest. Everyday Lending Limited trading as 
GeorgeBanco.com must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if 
he asks for one.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Everyday Lending Limited trading as GeorgeBanco .com to 
take the actions as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman