DRN-4227608
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc have held him liable for payments from his account 
that he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In September 2022 Mr B was on holiday outside the UK. He says that his phone, Santander 
credit card and driving licence were lost / stolen, he reported this to the police and with his 
partners help cancelled the credit card and blocked the phone. The police report Mr B has 
provided includes that the loss took place between 2.00am and 3.00am on 30 September 
2022. He also says his Santander debit card wasnt stolen and was in his possession 
throughout. 
Mr B says that when he returned from his holiday, he logged in to his online banking and 
saw that there had been payments from his account that he didnt recognise. These totalled 
around £3,000. The evidence from Santander shows that these payments took place 
between 11.05pm and 11.25pm on 29 September 2022. It also shows that for at least one of 
these payments, chip and PIN was used with the PIN being correctly entered. 
When Mr B reported this to Santander, they investigated but ultimately held him liable for the 
transactions he was disputing. In summary they said there was no point of compromise for 
his card or PIN. Mr B complained and when Santander maintained their position, he referred 
the matter to our service. 
One of our Investigators issued her opinion on the complaint and didnt recommend it should 
be upheld. She supported Santanders outcome. Mr B still disagrees and has asked for an 
Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator. I know this will be 
disappointing for Mr B, so Ill explain why. 
The starting position is that consumers are only generally liable for payments that theyve 
authorised. So, I must decide whether Santander concluding that Mr B most likely authorised 
the payments he is disputing was fair and reasonable.
I appreciate Mr Bs strength of feeling on this matter. But I hope he understands that clearly, 
I wasnt present when the payments took place, and so I cant know with 100% certainty 
what happened. But I must base my outcome on the available evidence and arguments and 
make my finding as to what I think is most likely to have happened.  
The last undisputed payment that required Mr B to enter his PIN was at 7.51pm on 29 
September 2022, around three hours before the first disputed transaction. Beyond this, after 
the disputed payments there were further transactions made using the debit card that Mr B 
accepts were him. The first of these was at 1.11pm on 30 September 2022. And Mr Bs 
testimony is that whilst his credit card had been stolen, he had his debit card throughout. 
Firstly, I dont think its likely Mr Bs card was cloned as he alleges. Its generally accepted 
that a cards unique chip cannot be cloned. And even if it were possible, there would still be 
no plausible explanation as to how a third party could have known the PIN. In my opinion the 
passage of time after the last undisputed use, negates the likelihood of it having been 
observed and that being the point of compromise. 
I also dont think its likely that a third party took and then replaced Mr Bs card. Had the debit 
card been stolen, and payments successfully made (utilising the available balance), its 
implausible that a third party would then have been able to find Mr B and would have taken 
the risk of discovery whilst replacing the card. There is no conceivable benefit to them doing 
so.
I also dont think its likely Mr Bs stolen / lost phone had anything to do with the disputed 
transactions. This is because the evidence from Santander is compelling that the debit card 
itself was used. And secondly the timing of the disputed payments was before when Mr B 
told the police he lost / had his phone stolen. 
Mr B has made much of the fact that one of the disputed transactions for around £987 is 
recorded by Santander as having been a contactless payment. As this is beyond the limit 
where contactless should work, he thinks Santander were at fault for allowing this. He also 
thinks Santander shouldnt have allowed the payments without conducting further checks, 
particularly due to the value and because he says they took him overdrawn. 
Santander have explained that outside the UK, contactless payments over the set amount 
will also require the PIN to be entered, and their system shows this is what happened. So, I 
dont think there was an error by Santander as that payment appears to be contactless and 
PIN rather than chip and PIN. And as Im supportive of Santanders conclusion that Mr B 
authorised the payments, I dont think they were wrong to process them without taking any 
additional steps. Or if they had taken further steps, that this would have made a difference. 
Mr B has also suggested that Santanders decision was motivated by his gender and race. 
Hes also provided media articles about victims of scams being refunded by their banks. 
Firstly, this isnt a case about a scam, Mr Bs position is that he didnt make the transactions 
at all, not that he was tricked into doing so. And in any case, each complaint is considered 
on its own individual merits. And whilst Ive taken account of what Mr B has said, Ive seen 
no evidence to support that Santanders decision was influenced by his personal 
characteristics, and I dont think that is the case. It appears to have been based largely on 
the technical evidence and the lack of any point of compromise for the PIN.
Overall, Im more persuaded by the technical evidence from Santander than Mr Bs 
testimony. And I dont think the outcome Santander reached in holding him liable for the 
disputed transactions was unfair or unreasonable. As such, there isnt a reasonable basis 
upon which I can require them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman