The complaint
Mrs Ks complaints arise from a fraud check TSB Bank Plc (TSB) carried out on a credit card 
purchase she tried to make. Shes unhappy that her mobile phone number wasnt on her 
credit card records. And shes not happy about what happened when she called to try to fix 
the problem. 
I looked at this complaint in April and reached a different view to our investigator whod been 
dealing with it. I sent out a provisional decision explaining my views, and asked Mrs K and 
TSB to let me know their thoughts. Im now going to make a final decision. 
Im not going to repeat everything that was in my provisional decision, just the bits that are 
needed to understand the complaint and my reasoning about it. 
What happened
A purchase on Mrs Ks credit card was flagged for a random fraud check. She couldnt pass 
the check though. A passcode needed to be sent to her phone, but only her home phone 
number was on TSBs records, and Mrs K wasnt at home at the time. Mrs K called TSB to 
try to fix the problem, but then her call was mishandled. In the end, Mrs Ks friend stepped in 
to make the purchase for her. 
TSB accepted there had been some problems. They added a mobile phone number to 
Mrs Ks records, and gave her a total of £27 compensation for the trouble, upset, and costs 
shed suffered. Mrs K brought the matter to us, and while our investigator felt TSBs offer 
was reasonable, I found the compensation should be higher. I provisionally said TSB should 
give Mrs K a total of £100. 
Mrs K accepted my findings, but TSB said they felt their offer had been reasonable. Ill focus 
this decision on the points they raised to explain why I still think £100 is the right amount.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I noted last month, TSB had Mrs Ks mobile number on their records for another account, 
so I can understand why she feels it should have been available to her for the fraud check 
on her credit card account. If it had been, I dont think any of these issues would have come 
up, because Mrs K could just have had the passcode sent to her mobile phone. 
TSB have commented that their fraud check process is there to protect their customers. I 
appreciate that, and I have no problem with them having done a fraud check in this case. 
The issue is though that Mrs K should have been able to pass the fraud check with minimal 
DRN-1830972disruption, as this was a genuine transaction. Had her records been up to date, she could 
have done so. 
TSB have also said that they corrected the problem as soon as they were made aware it. 
But Ive listened to the call Mrs K made to try to sort the problem out, and I disagree that it 
was fixed as soon as it came up. The initial call handling was okay, but a transfer to the 
fraud team went wrong. I accept it was simply a mistake, but the delay this added to fixing 
the problem still added to the frustration for Mrs K. 
Putting things right
In response to my provisional decision, TSB have talked about the impact on Mrs K being 
minimal. I agree there was no major financial cost for her as a result of the errors. But as I 
said last time, the impact here is more of an emotional one. 
Mrs K was annoyed she couldnt make the purchase she wanted to make. She was more 
frustrated when her call to try to fix it was mishandled. She was briefly worried about her 
holiday plans falling through, until her friend stepped in to help. And I can see how it would 
be a bit embarrassing to have to rely on someone elses kindness, although when its a 
friend thats not quite as bad. 
Putting a financial amount on an emotional impact is always going to be a matter of opinion. 
But the £27 TSB have already paid doesnt feel like enough here. Mrs K was upset, and 
annoyed, and then further frustrated by the poor response to her call. 
Im still of the view I set out last month: £100 compensation in total will reflect the impact on 
Mrs K. That gives her money to do something to make herself feel better, as well as to pay 
back her friends kindness with a gift of some sort, if she wants to. Given TSB have already 
given Mrs K £27 to try to put things right, thatll mean a further payment of £73. 
My final decision
TSB Bank Plc provided Mrs K with an unreasonable service in this case. To recognise the 
impact this had on her, they should pay Mrs K a total of £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman