DRN-2981298
The complaint
Mrs E complained that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) lent to her 
irresponsibly and provided her with a loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
Everyday Loans provided loans to Mrs E as follows: 
Date 
takenAmount Term Monthly repayment Loan status
18/03/2016 £1,500 24 months £128.15 Outstanding
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. He didnt think Everyday Loans should 
have provided Mrs E with the loan. 
Everyday Loans disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. In summary, it said that the 
adjudicator hadnt explained why he believed the loan wasnt affordable or sustainable other 
than applying a blanket debt to income ratio and saying this was too high.
Everyday Loans said that although it had relied on statistical information reflecting national 
averages when assessing likely expenditure, Mrs Es circumstances didnt fit the average as 
she wasnt responsible for household bills. So the figure it had used for her monthly 
expenditure when working out affordability was higher than it needed to be. 
In support of its view that the loan was affordable for Mrs E, Everyday Loans pointed to her 
repayment history and said that Mrs E had made the repayments on time and without issue 
until her employment arrangements changed. 
As the complaint hasnt been settled, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
Ive kept all this in mind when deciding Mrs Es complaint. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding Mrs Es complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. And its important to keep in mind that when working 
out if a loan looks likely to be affordable a lender must take a borrower focussed 
approach and think carefully about the impact of the lending on the customer. The lending 
decision shouldnt just be about the business risk to the lender of not getting its money 
back.
A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably 
repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the 
repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should 
also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Es complaint. 
Everyday Loans gathered information from Mrs E by asking her about her income and 
expenses before it agreed to lend to her and looking at some of her recent bank statements. 
It also checked Mrs Es credit file to understand her existing monthly credit commitments and 
credit history. 
Everyday Loans said that based on these checks it was satisfied that the loan was 
affordable for Mrs E. 
But, whilst I've thought carefully about what Everyday Loans has said, including the 
comments it has made in response to our adjudicators view, I dont think that Everyday 
Loans made a fair lending decision when it provided the loan. 
I dont think Everyday Loans thought carefully enough about what Mrs Es credit history and 
the information it saw in the bank statements revealed about her overall financial situation. 
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. But I think Everyday Loans should have been concerned to see the extent of Mrs Es 
existing borrowing and in particular her use of expensive payday and unsecured loans as 
well as her extensive reliance on credit cards.
I think Everyday Loans couldve seen that the previous month before applying for this loan, 
Mrs E had taken out a £500 payday loan, she had repaid this two weeks later and ten days 
afterwards she had borrowed £450 from the same lender. I think that shouldve concerned 
Everyday Loans as this pattern of lending can be one of the hallmarks of someone already in 
financial difficulty  essentially borrowing again to fill a gap in finances left after repaying a 
previous loan. 
And I think it looked very likely that was happening here. Everyday Loans was also able to 
see that Mrs E was already repaying borrowing taken out with at least four other providers of 
high cost loans. She owed more than £4,500 on five active credit card accounts and she was 
approaching the credit limit on all of them. 
She had gone over the £750 limit on one of her mail order accounts. Although this was by a 
few pounds only, I think it is indicative of the fact that Mrs E was making full use of all the 
available credit her existing accounts offered. Her total indebtedness exceeded £15,000.  
Like our adjudicator, I think the information Everyday Loans gathered overall painted a 
picture of someone struggling to manage money problems effectively and it included clear 
warning signs that Mrs E was already experiencing financial difficulty  so it shouldve 
realised that further lending was unlikely to be sustainably affordable for her. 
And I think this is borne out also by the fact that when Everyday Loans carried out credit 
checks it noted Mrs Es existing creditor repayments were around £924. Everyday Loans 
relied on statistical information to assess what someone in Mrs Es particular situation would 
be likely to spend each month and allowed a figure of £589 for her spending on general 
living costs  which seems reasonable to me. 
Whilst Ive taken into account why Everyday Loans now says this approach resulted in over-
inflating Mrs Es net expenses, I dont think it would be reasonable not to allow for essential 
expenditure that she was likely to be contractually liable for, like a mortgage and household 
bills. 
Everyday Loans original affordability assessment took into account the likelihood that Mrs E 
might find herself liable for these expenses and I think it was reasonable for Everyday Loans 
to have allowed for this as part of its underwriting process.  
But, on these figures, Mrs E was already paying around half of her take home pay just on 
servicing her existing debt. 
To me, that was a clear warning sign that she was over-reliant on credit  and the fact that 
she wasnt responsible for paying housing costs or bills doesnt affect my view on this point. 
I think Everyday Loans should have been especially concerned about why someone it might 
have expected to have more than average spending money compared to people in similar 
circumstances needed so much expensive debt  in theory, Mrs E should have had less 
need for reliance on credit.  
Even after taking out this loan and using it to pay some of her other debt, it looked like Mrs E 
would still need to spend more than half her take home pay on her credit repayments. I think that this was such a significant proportion of Mrs Es monthly income this was a 
further reason why Everyday Loans couldnt reasonably say it was likely that Mrs E would be 
able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. 
The fact that Mrs E had repaid her loan for a while doesnt mean that she was able to do so 
in a sustainable way. 
All the signs were that Mrs E was over stretched financially and unable to effectively manage 
debt she was already responsible for paying and she was relying on taking out new credit to 
supplement her income in order to be able to make the monthly repayments she owed. 
And, despite part of the loan being used to repay some debt, I think the scale of her debts 
and the extent of her evident money problems would suggest that Mrs E would remain in 
serious financial trouble regardless. 
So, for all these reasons, I am upholding Mrs Es complaint that she should not have been 
given the loan.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mrs E to repay the capital amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. 
But she has paid extra for lending that should not have been provided to her. In line with this 
Services approach, Mrs E shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she borrowed. 
If Everyday Loans has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and 
then take the following steps. 
Otherwise, Everyday Loans should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results 
outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mrs E received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Mrs E made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mrs E having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mrs E keeping in mind its obligation 
always to treat her positively and sympathetically in those discussions.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mrs Es credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mrs E a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if 
she asks for one.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Es complaint and direct Everyday Lending 
Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) to take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman