DRN-2622391
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited failed to act on his instruction to 
switch the investment of his pension savings into cash in a timely manner. 
What happened
On the morning of Friday 6 March 2020 Mr B made contact with Aviva by phone. On that call 
he instructed Aviva to switch the investment of his pension savings so that the whole of his 
fund was invested in cash. On the call Aviva told Mr B that the transaction might take up to 
six working days to be confirmed, but that it would be valued at the unit prices on the next 
working day. So Aviva agreed with Mr B that would mean the switch would be valued at the 
closing price that day, or the opening price on the Monday morning.
Aviva says that the information it gave to Mr B was inaccurate. It says that for his pension 
plan, any switches in investment that were instructed by telephone would be based on the 
unit prices two days later. It says that it explained that it had given him the wrong information 
when he called on Monday 9 March. And it says he agreed to the switch continuing, based 
on the unit prices the following day. As an apology for the inaccurate information it had given 
to Mr B Aviva sent him a cheque for £100. But Aviva didnt think it was required to switch 
Mr Bs investments based on the unit prices at the close of business on 6 March.
Mr B was unhappy with Avivas response so he brought his complaint to this Service. The 
complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She agreed with Aviva that its 
terms and conditions didnt require it to use the unit prices from 6 March when switching 
Mr Bs pension investments. And she thought that the compensation Aviva had paid to Mr B 
in respect of the trouble and upset hed been caused by the inaccurate information was fair. 
So she didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr B didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr B and by Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
My starting point for considering complaints such as these would be to look at the terms and 
conditions that were applicable to Mr Bs pension plan. From these I think the relevant terms 
can be found in section 5.8 that deals with the Option to switch between Investment Funds. 
The specific part of section 5.8 reads;
If you write to us using the ordinary Royal Mail postal service we will use the unit 
prices on the day after we receive the request. If we receive the request in any other 
way that we allow, we will use the unit price on the date no later than three working 
days after we receive the request
Mr B provided his instruction to Aviva by telephone. So from the above I would conclude that 
the terms and conditions of the pension plan required Aviva to use the relevant unit prices 
from a date no later than Tuesday 11 March  since Mr Bs instructions were given on 
Friday 6 March. Aviva used the prices from 10 March, and so met its responsibilities under 
the terms and conditions.
But, as Mr B has pointed out, the above terms dont preclude Aviva from using unit prices as 
early as the same day the instruction has been received. But Aviva also needs to ensure that 
it treats all its customers equally, and fairly. It might for example be the case that a large 
number of requests were received around the same time  and not all could be processed 
immediately. So Aviva has told us that it utilises internal processing standards that mean 
requests such as Mr Bs are processed using unit prices two days after receipt of the 
instruction was received. 
I havent seen anything that would persuade me that this isnt a true refection of Avivas 
internal processes. I dont share Mr Bs view that these normal processing timescales are 
being used to deflect from any delays in the transfer of his savings, or to deliberately 
disadvantage him. And, since they fall within the bounds set by the terms and conditions it 
wouldnt be reasonable for me to interfere with Avivas reasonable commercial processes.
It is clear, and I have listened to a recording of the relevant telephone call, that the 
information Aviva gave to Mr B didnt reflect what I have said above about its normal 
processing timescales. And I can understand how upsetting it was for Mr B when he 
discovered that Aviva was not going to process his instruction based on the earlier unit 
prices. But what I need to consider here is whether that incorrect information caused Mr B to 
act differently in some way.
My conclusion is that it didnt. Even if Aviva had correctly explained the normal processing 
timescales to Mr B on the original call, there would have been nothing he could do to take 
advantage of the earlier unit prices. And I have noted that Aviva says Mr B still asked for the 
transaction to proceed when, on the following business day, Aviva corrected the information 
about the processing timescales. I think that underlines that Mr Bs over-riding objective here 
was to move his pension investments into cash as soon as possible. And that is what he 
would have done even if the information hed been given on the original call had been 
different.I have considered whether the conversation Aviva had with Mr B on the Friday should be 
considered to create a binding contract. As I explained earlier, I am required to decide 
complaints on the basis of what I think is fair and reasonable. Whilst I will naturally take into 
account the law, I am not always bound by it. Here I dont think a binding contract was 
created, but that would be a matter for the Courts to definitively decide. And, should Mr B 
decide not to accept this final decision, he would be free to explore that approach further. 
But on a fair and reasonable basis I dont think that it would be right to conclude that Aviva 
should be required to honour the mistaken information it originally provided.
I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for Mr B. He made his request to Aviva at 
a time of great market turmoil, and was aware that time might be important in maximising the 
value of his pension savings. But my conclusion is that Aviva acted within its terms and 
conditions when determining the unit price it applied to the transfers. And I dont think that it 
would be fair, or reasonable, for me to direct it to use the earlier date it mistakenly advised to 
Mr B on the original phone call.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman