DRN-4228467
The complaint
Mr J and Ms W are unhappy with the service they received from Great Lakes Insurance SE 
when they claimed on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J and Ms W were on a skiing holiday when Ms W sustained injuries on the ski slope. 
They are unhappy with the lack of emergency assistance they received and that medical bills 
still havent been paid. 
Mr J and Ms W complained to Great Lakes. They issued a final response letter which 
acknowledged that there had been a lack of understanding of Mr J and Ms Ws needs and a 
focus on paperwork. They said the cost of Ms Ws surgery had been covered and that they 
were waiting for copies of the other bills. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and upheld the complaint. He didnt think the 
claim had been handled promptly and fairly. He noted that Great Lakes had decided to close 
the assistance claim because they considered Mr J hadnt communicated with their staff 
appropriately. Our investigator didnt think that was a reasonable course of action and he 
also didnt think Mr J and Ms W were made aware of how to progress their claim. He 
recommended Great Lakes settle the claim, pay 8% simple interest and award £500 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr J and Ms W. 
Great Lakes accepted our investigators recommendation. Mr J and Ms W asked an 
ombudsman to review their complaint. In summary, they dont feel the compensation fairly 
reflects the distress and inconvenience caused and that the recommendation didnt take all 
of the circumstances into account. They said Great Lakes had done nothing to settle their 
claim over a period of more than 15 months, Ms W continued to suffer lasting effects as a 
result of the lack of assistance and that Great Lakes had no understanding of the challenges 
of dealing with a ski accident. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Great Lakes accepted our investigators findings. Its agreed to pay the claim, simple interest 
and compensation. So, Ill focus on the remaining key issues in dispute. 
I think the settlement Great Lakes has agreed to is fair and reasonable because I dont think 
that the circumstances of this complaint are so serious that Mr J and Ms W should receive 
between £2000 and £5000 compensation. I say that because: 
Great Lakes caused significant inconvenience and disruption. Mr J and Ms W 
had to go to a lot of effort to sort out medical assistance and they received poor 
service from the assistance team. But I bear in mind that ultimately Ms W was 
able to access medical treatment. And, I dont think theres evidence which 
supports that there was an extremely serious short-term impact which means 
compensation of £2000 or more should be awarded.    
Ive taken into account what Mr J has said about the longer-term impact on 
Ms Ws health. Ive not been provided with persuasive evidence which 
demonstrates that Ms Ws physical recovery has been negatively impacted by the 
lack of assistance she received from Great Lakes. And, I dont think the evidence 
Ive been provided with suggests that there was, for example, severe ongoing 
disruption to Mr J and Ms Ws daily lives or a lasting impact on Ms Ws health or 
recovery. 
There was an ongoing financial impact during the time that the claim hasnt been 
settled. But I think the delay and overall poor service is fairly reflected in the 
overall compensation our investigator recommended.  
I can appreciate why Mr J and Ms W feel that Great Lakes wasnt able to deal 
with the challenges of a medical assistance claim for skiers. They had a 
frustrating and disappointing experience. Great Lakes has acknowledged that 
their service wasnt to the level it should have been, but I dont think that means 
the compensation offered is unreasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
Putting things right
Im directing Great Lakes to put things right by: 
Settling the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. and providing Mr J and 
Ms W with a breakdown of the settlement figure.
Paying 8% simple interest from the date a settlement figure is provided to the date of 
payment.
Paying £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr J and 
Ms W by the poor service they received. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr J and Ms Ws complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to put things 
right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Anna WilshawOmbudsman