DRN-3590834
The complaint
Mrs H and Mrs S have complained that Olton Alexander Ltd (OA) took payment for 
initiating three claims relating to timeshares theyd bought  but have only progressed one of 
the three.
What happened
Mrs H and Mrs S instructed OA in early 2017 to assist them in three claims relating to mis-
sold timeshares.  They paid OA an action commencement fee of £795 for each claim.
Mrs H and Mrs S are satisfied that one claim was progressed by the solicitors OA instructed.  
But they said theyve heard nothing about either of the other two claims.  So they wrote to 
OA in August 2021, asking them to refund two of the £795 payments.  When they got no 
reply, they brought their complaint to us.
When our investigator received the file, he noted that OA hadnt responded to our requests 
to contact Mrs H and Mrs S to reply to their complaint.  Nor had they provided us with their 
business file.  Despite requesting this on many occasions, and being told by OA it had been 
sent, the investigator never received OAs business file.  So he based his conclusions about 
the complaint on the testimony of Mrs H and Mrs S.
The investigator concluded that OA hadnt treated Mrs H and Mrs S fairly.  in the absence of 
any evidence from OA to show that all three actions had been started, he was persuaded 
that only one had been progressed.  And he was satisfied OA hadnt replied to requests for 
updates.  
So he thought OA should refund two of the three action commencement fees theyd received 
 which totalled £1,590.  And he said OA should pay Mrs H and Mrs S interest at the rate of 
8% for the time theyve held the funds until theyre repaid.  Finally, he said Mrs H and Mrs S 
should receive £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience OAs lack of 
communication and updates had caused them.
Mrs H and Mrs S agreed with the investigators view, but OA didnt.  So Ive now been asked 
to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mrs Hs and Mrs Ss complaint.  Ill explain why.
Like our investigator, Ive not been able to consider any evidence from OAs business file 
because its not been received, despite the requests made for it to be sent.  The most recent 
correspondence between the investigator and OA confirms that position.  So Im satisfied OA 
have been given the opportunity to provide that evidence.
However, in response to the investigators view, OA did send an email, which they said had 
been sent before the investigator drew his conclusion, but which the investigator didnt 
receive.  OA said theyd taken on the three claims, two of which were allocated to a group 
action theyd referred to a firm of solicitors and the third was dealt with as a standalone case.  
But after discussion with the solicitors, only one case proceeded in the first instance.  
OA said they were in a position to place the third claim with a law firm.  And theyd kept    
Mrs H and Mrs S informed about all three matters.
Ive considered what OA have said alongside the information and copy documents sent to us 
by Mrs H and Mrs S.
Ive seen a copy of an invoice OA sent Mrs H and Mrs S in March 2017.  This is for three 
action commencement fees of £795 each (totalling £2,385).  One fee is described as being 
for inclusion in a class action and the other two for stand alone matters.  Two are marked as 
already paid and the third as due.  Mrs H and Mrs S have provided a bank statement 
showing payment of the third fee was made two days after the date of the invoice.
Im satisfied from this that all three fees were paid.  But the descriptions on the invoice show 
the information OA gave the investigator in 2022 was incorrect, as Mrs H and Mrs S were 
charged for two stand alone matters and one to be added to the group action  not the other 
way around.
To try and clarify matters, I asked the investigator to get details from Mrs H and Mrs S of 
exactly what information theyd received from the solicitors about the claims.  Mrs H and  
Mrs S sent copies of the documentation showing one claim was included in a class action.  
And they sent a copy of an email from the solicitors which said:
We have you as a party to one action alone. I attach the Claim form. This is an ongoing 
action in which slowly claims are being settled. We do not have any other cases for you. We 
fully expect your case to settle.
Im satisfied from this that, despite what OA told the investigator, only one claim has been 
commenced.  And that means I think OA were only entitled to ask Mrs H and Mrs S for one 
fee.      
And, in the absence of any evidence showing OA kept Mrs H and Mrs S updated on three 
cases  particularly the two that havent been passed to a solicitor  Im satisfied its fair to 
uphold their complaint that OA didnt keep them informed about what was happening in their 
claims.
Putting things right
Because Im satisfied only one of the three claims for which OA received an action 
commencement fee has been started, I think its fair that OA refund Mrs H and Mrs S the 
other two fees totalling £1,590.  And I think OA should pay Mrs H and Mrs S simple interest 
on that amount, calculated at the rate of 8% per annum, from the date they received the 
funds until they repay them.
And Im satisfied Mrs H and Mrs S have been worried and inconvenienced by the lack of 
updates theyve received about their claim.  I think they should be compensated for that.  
And I agree with our investigator that £250 is a reasonable amount for this.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Hs and Mrs Ss complaint about Olton 
Alexander Limited and directing OA to:
refund them two of the three action commencement fees they paid  a total of 
£1,590;
pay Mrs H and Mrs S simple interest on this amount, calculated at the rate of 8% per 
annum from the date OA received payment until the date they refund Mrs H and   
Mrs S.  If Olton Alexander considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs H and Mrs S how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mrs H and Mrs S a tax deduction certificate if they ask 
for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
pay Mrs H and Mrs S £250 compensation for the stress and inconvenience theyve 
been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman