DRN-2523292
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has declined a 
claim she made for legal expenses insurance cover. The policy is in Mr As name, but the 
complaint has been brought by Miss S.
For the sake of clarity when I reference RSA I mean both the underwriter and any agents 
working on its behalf. 
Background
Mr A has a home insurance policy that is underwritten by RSA and provides cover for legal 
expenses claims. The policy, which provides cover to both Mr A and Miss S, was taken out 
by Mr A in August 2017. 
In 2020 Miss S contacted RSA to start a claim under the policy as she needed legal support 
for a case she was taking to the Employment Tribunal. RSA asked Miss S to provide some 
background information about the dispute including a chronology of events. 
Miss S responded and explained that she was signed off work since 2018 and that things 
had since escalated with her employer and she had recently been dismissed. She now 
wanted to pursue a claim for unfair dismissal through the Employment Tribunal and wanted 
to claim under the policy to cover her legal fees. When she explained the issues to RSA 
Miss S said that the problems with her employer started in 2016 but didnt really begin to 
have a direct impact on her ability to work until 2018 when she was signed off work due to 
stress related illness. She explained that she only needed support under the policy in 2020 
when the decision to take a formal case to the Employment Tribunal was made. 
RSA responded by declining Miss S claim. It explained that under the terms of its policy any 
event, whose start date pre-dates the start of the insurance policy, would be excluded. It said 
that as Miss S had indicated the problems with her employer started in 2016 this meant that 
they predated the start of the policy, which was taken out by Mr A in 2017, and so the claim 
wasnt covered under the policys terms and conditions. 
Miss S disagreed with RSAs interpretation of events. She said she had only provided 
information about her problems at work in 2016 for context and that the issues which led to 
her becoming unable to work, and her eventual dismissal, all happened much later between 
2018-2020. So she feels RSA should provide her cover under the policy.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint already. She found that RSA was entitled 
to decline the claim under the terms of the policy as she agreed that the issues at the heart 
of the claim predated the start of the policy. She advised Miss S she may be able to make a 
retrospective claim if she had a previous policy in place in 2016 that also provided legal 
expenses cover. 
Miss S didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint and so the case has been passed to me to consider. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to understand whether or not RSA has excluded Miss S claim fairly and in line with 
its policys terms and conditions its important understand what the specific exclusion states.
Looking at the policy document I can see it defines the date of occurrence in the following 
way:
 For civil cases, this is the date of the event that leads to a claim. If more than one event 
arises at different times from the same cause, the date of occurrence is the date of the first 
event. 
Looking at the claim form submitted by Miss S in 2020 I can see she said that:
Harassment in the workplace by deputy manger (who had a history of bullying several 
colleagues out of their jobs) began in 2016
While I accept Miss S submissions that in 2016 she had no cause to take a case to the 
Employment Tribunal and thus no need to claim under the policy, the exclusion doesnt 
relate to when she needed to make a claim, but rather when the problems that eventually led 
to the need to make a claim began. And by her own words it seems the problems Miss S 
was experiencing in work, which eventually resulted in her becoming signed off work and 
ultimately taking a case to the Employment Tribunal, began in 2016. 
Miss S has said the start date of events should be viewed as occurring in 2018 when she 
was signed off work. However, I disagree with this as there needed to be a reason it was 
necessary for her to be signed off work. And that reason will naturally have begun before 
she was signed off. Looking at Miss S submission to RSA it seems the breakdown in the 
relationship between Miss S and her employer, which she has traced back to 2016 when she 
began to experience problems with a deputy manager, is the fundamental cause of the 
claim.  
Therefore, as the problems Miss S experienced in work began in 2016, I believe it was 
reasonable for RSA to view this date as the start of the events that ultimately led to her 
needing to make a claim in 2020. And because the policy wasnt taken out until 2017, this 
means the problems Miss S was having at work started before Mr A took out the policy. And 
so RSA is entitled to decline it as per the above definition. 
I know this will come as a disappointment for Miss S. I would repeat the suggestion made by 
our investigator regarding checking to see if she had legal expenses cover in place with a 
different provider in 2016. If she did, she may be able to make a retrospective claim under 
that policy despite the fact that it wasnt in place in 2020 when her case went to the Tribunal. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr A and Miss Ss complaint against Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman