DRN-3454577
The complaint
Ms B (through a representative) has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as 
Safety Net Credit (SNC)) provided her with a credit facility she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Ms B approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in June 2017. This was a running credit 
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing. Ms B was not advanced a payday loan. 
Ms B was initially given a facility with a £250 limit on 21 June 2017. Her limit was increased 
on a further eight occasions with her final increase taking Ms Bs credit limit to £580 in 
August 2018. 
Ms B has had some problems repaying the facility and SNC has told the Financial 
Ombudsman the account was sold to a third-party collection agency but has since been 
returned to it. SNC has told the Financial Ombudsman Service the balance on the facility as 
of March 2022 was £506.94.
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms Bs complaint and he though SNC shouldnt have 
granted the facility to her. The adjudicator explained the read only bank statements that SNC 
had access to showed that Ms B was spending a significant portion of her monthly income 
on betting websites. In addition, she also had two payments each month to debt collectors. 
So, he thought Ms B couldnt afford to take on this facility. 
Ms Bs representative acknowledged receipt of the adjudicators assessment, but no further 
comments were provided. 
SNC disagreed with the assessment. In summary, it didnt make any points about the 
outcome that was reached. Instead, it focused on whether the Financial Ombudsman had 
jurisdiction to consider the complaint. In summary it said: 
It hasnt received proper authorisation from Ms B to allow her representative to deal 
with the case.
SNC says that due to concerns over the representatives authorisation no valid 
complaint has ever been made which is why no final response has been issued. 
SNC therefore says it doesnt believe the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction 
because no final response has been issued and so doesnt constitute a complaint as 
laid down by the rules (DISP). 
Although Ms Bs representative has provided a wet signature SNC doesnt have 
anything to compare it too.
The approach SNC takes to verify with a consumer is reasonable and has her 
privacy and data protection in mind.
SNC has had concerns about the authority given and this has been backed up by the 
content of a Dear CEO letter from the industry regulator.
The adjudicator responded to SNCs concerns. He explained SNC had been given more 
than eight weeks to investigate Ms Bs complaint following the representatives complaint 
and from when we informed SNC that the complaint would be taken on and progressed. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
Why I can look at this complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided by SNC as to why it 
considers this complaint to be outside of the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction. 
Ive thought carefully about what SNC has said, but like our adjudicator explained, Im not 
persuaded there is any reason why the Financial Ombudsman cant consider this complaint. 
It is disappointing that SNC has taken the stance that it has in relation to this particular 
jurisdiction issue considering that, in my view, it is patently incorrect and is therefore simply 
delaying the resolution of this complaint.
SNC has clearly had significantly longer than the eight weeks afforded to it by the Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) rules to investigate and issue a final response to this complaint. Ms B 
complained through his representative to SNC in October 2020 (Ive seen nothing to 
persuade me Ms B hadnt correctly authorised the representative), the complaint was 
referred here on 19 March 2021, and the Financial Ombudsman then wrote to SNC on 
6 April 2021 explaining the complaint was now being taken forward. 
It is now a year later and well over a year since the complaint was originally made, but the 
firm nonetheless disputes that it has not had the eight weeks to consider the complaint. This 
is clearly wrong in my opinion.
SNC has had more than eight weeks in which to investigate the complaint and issue a 
response. Im therefore satisfied that the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction to consider 
this matter in accordance with DISP and can proceed to issue a decision on the merits of 
Ms Bs complaint. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
To start with, Ms B wasnt given a payday loan. Instead she was provided with a credit 
facility where there was an expectation it would be repaid within a reasonable period of time. 
Interest is charged on any balance at 0.8% per day for the first 40 days following the 
drawdown. After 40 days, a consumer will pay no further interest on that drawdown. 
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that SNC gave Ms B this facility when 
it was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the relevant regulatory rules 
in place at the time were set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section of 
the FCA Handbook of rules and guidance. 
Overall, the guidance didnt require SNC to carry out any set level of checks, but it did 
require its checks to be proportionate and any checks had to consider a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent and when the borrowing was due to be repaid. Put simply, the lender had to gather enough information so that it could make an informed 
decision on the lending.
Throughout the lifetime that Ms B had the facility SNC maintained read-only access to her 
bank statements, to allow SNC to monitor Ms Bs finances and to allow it to carry out 
additional affordability assessments. 
Finally, Ms Bs expected repayment would be calculated to be 5% of the amount due plus 
any interest, fees or charges. But, a minimum amount of £20 would be expected to be paid. 
Therefore, when Ms Bs facility was approved for £250 SNC needed to satisfy itself that 
Ms B would be in a position to make the repayment of around £20 per month, by carrying out 
a proportionate check. 
In this case, SNC had a fairly good idea of Ms Bs income and expenditure because it had 
read only access to her bank statements for the 90 days preceding the facility being granted. 
It then used an algorithm to establish what Ms Bs income and expenditure was, after 
completing these checks, in this case, SNC was satisfied that Ms B could afford the 
minimum repayment towards the facility.  
It also carried out a credit search before the facility was granted. Ive considered the 
summary of the results SNC has provided, and, I dont think these results wouldve led SNC 
to either decline the application or prompt it to have carried out further checks into Ms Bs 
situation before the facility was approved.
However, having said the above, Ive also reviewed the bank transaction data in the 90 days 
leading up to the facility being granted, I agree with the adjudicator that based on what SNC 
saw it shouldnt have advanced the facility.  
In the 90 days before the facility was approved, I can see that most months Ms B spent a 
significant portion of her income each month on betting websites. For example, the month 
before the facility was in approved (so looking at May 2017 transactions), Ms Bs income 
was (considering benefit payments and salary) around £1,000. But she spent close to £700 
on betting transactions. 
A similar picture can also be seen in the April 2017 transaction date  where she spent again 
around 50% of her income on such transactions. In my view, this information ought to have 
led SNC to conclude Ms B shouldnt have been advanced any further credit because the 
repayments were unlikely to be sustainable for her. 
In addition, there were signs that Ms B was having problems managing her money because 
there were a number of returned payment fees into the account as well as unarranged 
overdraft fees. A further sign in my view that Ms B may have been having financial 
difficulties. 
Looking at the number of betting transactions, the value of those transactions as well as the 
other information contained within the bank statements that to me indicate financial 
difficulties  which SNC had access too. In my view, having seen this it ought to have 
concluded that Ms B shouldnt have been provided with further credit and therefore the 
facility shouldnt have been provided. 
Im therefore upholding Ms Bs complaint in full and I dont think SNC shouldve approved the 
facility.  Putting things right
If the debt has been sold to a third party, SNC should, if it wishes, buy the debt back and 
then carry out the redress below. If it isnt able to or doesnt wish to buy the debt back then it 
needs to work with the third party to achieve the same results.
A) Remove all the unpaid interest, fees and charges from the start of the facility.
B) Treat all payments Ms B has made towards the account since the start of the facility 
as though they had been repayments of outstanding principal.
C) If at any point Ms B wouldve been in credit on her account after considering the 
above, SNC will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
refund is paid.
D) If there is an outstanding principal balance, then SNC can use any refunds calculated 
as part of C to repay this. If a balance remains after this then SNC should try to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms B. If SNC has previously written-off any 
principal, then it shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up only of principal it 
has already written-off.
E) SNC should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Ms Bs credit file 
about this facility.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give 
Ms B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Ms Bs complaint in full.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Ms B as directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman