DRN-3407579
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund money he was tricked into transferring 
to a fraudster. 
What happened
Mr H became involved with what he believed to be a genuine investment opportunity. He 
was shown a trading platform that he says used algorithms to place trades on his behalf. 
After a small initial deposit of £300 in early 2020, Mr H was encouraged to deposit increasing 
sums with the fraudsters.
Mr Hs investments seemed to be doing well until March 2021, when his balance suddenly 
dropped and he started having difficulty contacting the investment company. Mr H asked to 
withdraw his money but was told it was unsafe to do so. Within a couple of weeks his 
investment had been reduced to nothing.
Unfortunately for Mr H, he hadnt been dealing with a genuine investment company, but 
fraudsters.
From his accounts at Santander Mr H made four payments from two different accounts  two 
payments made via Open Banking of £4,225.00 and £200.14 and card payments of £2,700 
and £130. The card payments have already been refunded by Santander. 
 
Santander considered Mr Hs claim in relation to the Open Banking payments under the 
provisions of the Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM Code, which requires signatories 
to reimburse victims of APP scams like this one in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
It said that two such exceptions to reimbursement applied  that Mr H had ignored an 
Effective Warning and made the payments without a reasonable basis for believing that he 
was dealing with a legitimate investment firm. 
The matter was referred to our service and one of our investigators didnt uphold it. They 
didnt think that the payments were covered by the CRM Code. They also thought there was 
no reason for Santander to find the payments suspicious as Mr H had previously made 
transactions of a similar size to the largest disputed payment. 
Mr Hs representatives disagreed. In summary, they said:
- Banks ought to have been aware of the risk of cryptocurrency trading since at least 
the middle of 2018 and should have found the new payment to a cryptocurrency 
provider suspicious.
- It was unfair to compare the disputed payments with others made to Mr Hs own 
account, as the latter would carry little risk. If such payments were excluded then, 
across both accounts, the first disputed payment was by far the largest payment Mr 
H had recently made.
As no agreement could be reached the matter was passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr H authorised the payments made to the fraudster. So, under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
 
Ive also considered whether the payments should be considered under the CRM Code. In 
this case Open Banking was used to make the payments. In practical terms this meant the 
faster payments from Mr Hs Santander account were initiated by him from the 
cryptocurrency providers own platform.
Ive reviewed the cryptocurrency providers platform and it appears to be a cryptocurrency 
exchange. It does not appear to hold customer funds or cryptocurrency. Therefore its likely 
that rather than Mr Hs using the payment as a way of funding an account in his own name, 
he instructed the cryptocurrency provider to transfer cryptocurrency to an external wallet 
held by either himself or the fraudster. 
To be covered by the CRM a payment must be a faster payment, CHAPS or internal book 
transfer between UK-domiciled, GBP accounts. In this case, though the first step (from Mr 
Hs bank account to the cryptocurrency provider) does meet this criteria, the second step 
(from the cryptocurrency provider to him or the fraudster) does not. As such, the payments 
are not covered by the CRM Code.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Santander should fairly and reasonably: 
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Ive considered the circumstances of this case carefully and Im sympathetic towards Mr Hs 
circumstances. But, having reviewed the activity on Mr Hs accounts over the six months 
prior to the scam, Im not persuaded that the transaction which took place on 11 March 
2021, should have been seen as so suspicious and unusual that it ought to have triggered 
an intervention before it was allowed to proceed. 
I accept that firms like Santander have been aware of the risk of cryptocurrency trading for 
some time and that it should be alive to the risk of scams associated with cryptocurrency. 
But that doesnt mean that it should question its customer about every transaction to a 
cryptocurrency provider. Instead, it should do so where it identifies a transaction that is 
otherwise out of character and unusual for that particular customer. Its true that the only similarly sized payments Mr H has made across both accounts in the 
six months prior to the scam were between his own accounts. Nevertheless, in some cases 
the payments he made were significantly larger than the payments in dispute. And, though 
the larger payment did reduce the balance of Mr Hs account to virtually nothing  that was 
the position it had been earlier the same day (with credits from his other account being used 
to fund the payment). Neither did a concerning pattern emerge  with just two payments (the 
latter of which was a very modest sum) made to this payee. 
Taking all of this into account, as well as the overall size of the first payment, I dont think 
that the £4,225 transaction was so suspicious that Santander ought to have done more than 
provide the written warning that it did. It follows that I am of the same view for the second 
payment which was far smaller in size and went to the same payee. 
In relation to recovery, I understand the payments made through Open Banking were 
converted into cryptocurrency and paid to a fraudster. Therefore, I dont think there was any 
realistic possibility of recovery. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman