DRN-1642138
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage application Mr K and Mrs B made through a mortgage 
broker, Tanvir Ul Haq (trading as Standard Asset Funding). The mortgage lender issued a 
mortgage offer in August 2019, but later withdrew it.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr K and Mrs B wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in 
the way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
Mr K and Mrs B have asked that I speak to them so they can explain things properly as they 
cant afford a solicitor to present their case. However, Im satisfied I already have all the 
information and evidence I need to reach a fair decision. This is a straight forward complaint, 
and both sides have made their points clearly. I can reassure Mr K and Mrs B that they dont 
need a solicitor - or other representative - to present their case to us.
Having considered the file I cant see how Mr K and Mrs B could have been unaware their 
application had been submitted by Tanvir Ul Haq (trading as Standard Asset Funding) rather 
than the other intermediary firm that theyve named. There were various illustrations and the 
mortgage offer that all state the intermediary was Standard Asset Funding. Mr K and Mrs B 
signed a terms of business document which says the contract is between Tanvir Ul Haq t/as 
Standard Asset Funding and Mr K and Mrs B, and the application form shows those details. 
Mr K and Mrs B also signed an information disclosure document that showed the broker was 
Tanvir Ul Haq (trading as Standard Asset Funding).
Mr K and Mrs B say they only dealt with Mr S who isnt a regulated mortgage adviser. Ive 
considered this point carefully and whilst I understand Mr K and Mrs B want answers thats 
not something I need to deal with. I say this because the underlying issue being complained 
about was that the mortgage offer was withdrawn, and that was nothing to do with the 
suitability of the advice given. So even if Mr S did give them advice and isnt authorised to do 
so (which Im not saying either way as I dont need to decide that point) it wouldnt alter the 
outcome of this complaint as the issue in dispute is whether or not Mr K told Tanvir Ul Haq 
that hed been disqualified from acting as a director (as thats what led to the mortgage offer 
being withdrawn).
Were not the regulator and its not our role to fine or punish a business if the regulations 
have been breached. If Mr K and Mrs B remain concerned that Mr S is giving advice that 
hes not authorised to give then thats something they can report to the regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The FCA doesnt deal with individual disputes so that 
wont be a way for Mr K and Mrs B to get this complaint looked at again, but the FCA can 
look at it as part of its regulatory framework if it feels there is something that needs 
investigating.
Ive carefully considered the submissions made by both sides and its clear there was a lot of 
emails back and forth, but none that show Mr K told Tanvir Ul Haq as a business (or Mr S 
individually) that hed been disqualified. Mr K says he did tell Tanvir Ul Haq, whereas Tanvir 
Ul Haq says he didnt. As Mr K hasnt been able to provide any proof that he told the 
business I need to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. When considering any 
complaint like this, as Mr K and Mrs B are the ones bringing the complaint against Tanvir Ul 
Haq, to uphold the complaint Mr K and Mrs Bs version needs to be more likely than Tanvir 
Ul Haqs version; not just as likely. Having considered everything I cant say Mr K and 
Mrs Bs version is anything more than just as likely, which isnt enough for me to uphold their 
complaint.
Finally, Mr K and Mrs B have said they didnt receive all their paperwork back from Tanvir Ul 
Haq, whereas the business says it returned everything. There would be no reason for the 
business to retain some of the paperwork when it had paid to return the documents by 
recorded delivery. Again, without proof either way I need to decide this point on the balance 
of probabilities, and again I find that Mr K and Mrs Bs version isnt anything more than just 
as likely which isnt enough.
Having considered everything Im not persuaded  as I must be to uphold this complaint  
that Mr K told Tanvir Ul Haq that hed been disqualified from acting as a director, and 
therefore it follows I cant hold Tanvir Ul Haq liable for the mortgage offer being withdrawn 
and the losses that flowed from that.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr K and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 8 October 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman