DRN-2219917
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that their mortgage with Bank of Scotland (trading as Halifax)
incorrectly fell into arrears because Halifax provided them with misleading information
following a rate switch.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had a mortgage with Halifax. Their contractual monthly payments (CMP) were
due on the 28th of each month. On 23 August 2019 Mr and Mrs M arranged a product switch
online. They were sent the rate switch paperwork and a completion letter. These confirmed
the terms of the new rate that would apply from 1 September 2019 and the new monthly
payment of £692.95 to be taken on 28 September and on or around this date, each month
thereafter.
Mr and Mrs M didnt make Augusts CMP and their account fell into arrears. Mr and Mrs M
say that their account only fell into arrears because Halifaxs letter didnt make it clear a
payment was due in August 2019 and the figures quoted were misleading.
Mr and Mrs M complained to Halifax asking for the arrears and interest to be waived  along
with compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Halifax didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. It said the completion letter was specific to
their new mortgage rate, which became effective in September 2019. Although it didnt
mention their previous rate, Mr and Mrs M pay their mortgage on a monthly basis and were
still required to make their August 2019 payment. Dissatisfied with Halifaxs response,
Mr and Mrs M bought their complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into things and felt the complaint shouldnt be upheld on the basis that
it was made clear to Mr and Mrs M that their new rate would take effect from
September 2019. He was satisfied that Mr and Mrs M ought to have known that their
August 2019 payment was still due as part of their existing terms and conditions and nothing
would change until the new rate took effect in September 2019.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They felt they were yet to receive an explanation about the figures
quoted in the completion letter that misled them into thinking Augusts payment wasnt due.
This matter was then passed to me for a decision. I issued a provisional decision on 
11 September 2020 and an extract of my provisional findings is below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the information provided in the completion letter both in relation to the
payment due date and also the breakdown of the figures provided.
Halifax wrote to Mr and Mrs M on 24 August 2019 to confirm completion of the new 
rate switch. It said that their new monthly payment of £692.95 was due on 
28 September 2019 and on or around the 28th each month thereafter.
Whilst I do understand from Mr and Mrs Ms point of view why they might have 
understood differently, it is difficult for me to say that Halifax did anything wrong. I say 
this because the letter says that their new monthly payment would take effect from 
28 September 2019. It does not say that their next payment was due on this date.
In line with the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage its clear that monthly 
payments are due. I havent seen anything to suggest Halifax said a payment wasnt 
due in August 2019.
Mr and Mrs M say that the main reason they thought the August 2019 payment wasnt 
due was because the figures quoted in the rate switch paperwork were misleading. 
They say their balance as of 23 August 2019 was £74,286.28 but the new rate was 
calculated on a balance of £74,553. They question, why, if a payment was due in 
August 2019, was their transfer balance higher than their balance at the time of 
requesting the product switch on 23 August 2019.
For illustration purposes the mortgage balance is calculated based on the amount 
borrowed, plus any interest and fees charged, minus any payments received. Halifax 
has explained that when calculating a contractual monthly payment for the following 
month, its systems use a projected balance at the end of the current month. It can 
reasonably project how much interest will be charged in the current month, but it 
doesnt include any payments due, because there is no guarantee further payments will 
be received.
If a further payment was received, Mr and Mrs Ms account would reflect this. Either 
through the new CMP reducing to reflect the lower projected balance. Or if not 
recalculated and the unchanged CMP maintained, they would be making payments to 
reduce the balance faster than expected and would receive full benefit of the balance 
and consequential interest reducing as a result.
There are a few variables that could affect the figures used to provide the illustration for 
the new payment. It is reasonable to use the current balance in the illustration  and it 
is referred to as that, not the balance as at September after the payment was due. 
While I can see Mr and Mrs Ms point and the assumptions made, I dont consider that 
the letter from Halifax included mis-leading information that led to Augusts missed 
payment.
For the reasons explained above, I think Halifaxs illustration reasonably reflected the
mortgage account balance and Ive seen nothing that suggests August 2019s payment 
wasnt due.
Halifax has confirmed that as of August 2020 Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage account was in 
arrears of £1,694.51 which equates to more than the payment in question here. This 
suggests Mr and Mrs M have been experiencing some ongoing financial difficulties 
since August 2019. Therefore, I think its unlikely that August 2019s payment was not 
made solely because Mr and Mrs M misunderstood the calculations provided by 
Halifax. And if there was any uncertainty this is something they could have queried with 
Halifax at the time.
I understand a payment holiday was recently agreed due to the impact of the Covid19
pandemic. Mr and Mrs M should contact Halifax to agree a suitable arrangement to pay 
back the arrears on their mortgage account.Because I dont think Halifax has done anything wrong, I wont be telling it to waive
August 2019s payment. 
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. Halifax agreed, Mr and Mrs M didnt. I will 
now issue my final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that neither party has made any further arguments, or provided any further evidence, 
since I issued my provisional decision. Ive carefully considered again what I said. Having 
done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as set out in my provisional decision and for the 
same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman