DRN-2000119
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) has unfairly 
declined his claim under section 75 (s75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr L has said in early April 2019 he purchased a car from his brother. On 15 April 2019 his 
car was taken into a garage (the supplier) to repair faults following the appearance of an 
engine warning light. Mr L is unhappy with the service provided by the supplier. Hes said 
that the repairs took far too long and the work agreed was either not completed or not 
completed to a satisfactory standard. Hes also said that some of the work the supplier 
claims to have completed wasnt agreed in advance and that whilst in the suppliers care, his 
car mileage increased significantly. Mr L has said he subsequently needed to take his car to 
another garage to be repaired. 
The total cost of the repairs (detailed on two invoices) was £1,218.02 which Mr L paid for 
using his Barclaycard credit card. Mr L has raised a s75 claim, arguing the supplier has 
breached the contract by failing to complete the repairs to the required standard.  
Barclaycard considered his s75 claim and declined it. Barclaycard didnt think that Mr L had 
a sufficient debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) link, which is needed for a section 75 claim. This 
was because the two invoices for the repairs were made out to Mr Ls brothers limited 
company. So it argued that Mr L wasnt party to the repair contract with the supplier and that 
it was Mr Ls brothers company that had contracted for the repairs. Barclaycard also raised 
a chargeback request however this was defended and so was unsuccessful. Unhappy with 
the response from Barclaycard, Mr L brought his complaint to our service.  
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She also felt that there wasnt 
the necessary DCS link in place. And in relation to the chargeback, she felt Barclaycard 
provided evidence to the merchants bank and that it had progressed the chargeback as far 
as was reasonably possible. So she didnt think Barclaycard needed to do anything more. 
Mr L didnt agree with our investigators assessment and as an agreement couldnt be 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at all the information from both parties afresh. Having done so I have reached 
the same outcome as the investigator. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to 
Mr L and Ive explained below why Ive reached this outcome. 
Section 75 makes the provider of credit (Barclaycard in this case) equally liable where there 
is a case of misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier of the goods or services. 
For section 75 to apply there are a number of criteria that need to be met, one of which is a 
valid a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement between the parties.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Ls credit card statement which shows a total of £1,218.02 was paid 
to the supplier on 4 June 2019. He was therefore responsible for repaying the amount owed 
to his credit card provider and so he is the debtor. As Mr L used his Barclaycard credit card 
to pay the supplier for the repairs, Barclaycard is the creditor and the garage which was 
completing the repairs was the supplier. 
However, having reviewed the two invoices which the supplier produced, they are both 
addressed to a limited company owned by Mr Ls brother. This is a Private Limited Company 
and therefore a separate legal entity in its own right. I dont have a copy of the terms and 
conditions of the supplier, but I have noted that these invoices both detail the Customer as 
Mr Ls brothers company and not Mr L. Ive also not seen anything to suggest it was agreed 
at the outset that this company would be acting on Mr Ls behalf as his agent. So taking 
everything into consideration it would appear that Mr Ls brothers company contracted with 
the supplier for the repairs and not Mr L.
Mr L has said that he purchased the vehicle from his brother shortly before (around a week 
prior) to the car being booked in for repairs. When asked why his brothers companys details 
were on the invoice, Mr L explained that his brother was more familiar with the fault and so 
found a garage local to him (his brother) to rectify the problem. However, this doesnt explain 
why the invoice was made out to the Mr Ls brothers company. The supplier has also said 
that around two months prior Mr Ls brother booked the car in for the same issue and 
subsequently cancelled this appointment. So Mr Ls brothers company has, at the very 
least, attempted to use this local supplier previously.  
Ive also been provided with a chain of emails between Mr L, the supplier and Mr Ls brother. 
Whilst the ongoing discussions about the repairs to the car involved Mr L, I can also see it 
involved Mr Ls brother using his company email address. I can also see on one of the 
invoices it states approved by [Mr Ls brother] next to a description about one of the repairs. 
This suggests Mr Ls brother (and his company) were more involved with the repairs than 
simply recommending a garage. 
I think its fair to say that this is a finely balanced issue to consider. I do accept, as Mr L has 
stated, that he had recently purchased the car and I have also noted that he was responsible 
for repaying the debt to Barclaycard. However, Im not satisfied that Mr Ls brothers 
company didnt retain some kind of interest in getting the car repaired after it was sold to 
Mr L. Based on everything Ive seen, I think the original fault in dispute was identified prior to 
the car being sold to Mr L, resulting in Mr Ls brother (and his company) having an interest in 
it being repaired. The supplier involved was selected by Mr Ls brother and booked in by him 
under his company name, and the car had previously been booked in with this supplier 
before Mr L owned the car. Mr Ls brother was also involved in the discussions about the 
repairs, using his company email account, and agreed at least one repair. 
On balance Ive seen too much to question that Mr L was contracting with the supplier on a 
personal basis and that Mr Ls brother simply made the booking. I think its most likely that, 
having an interest in the repairs being completed, Mr Ls brothers company contracted with 
the supplier. This therefore means that Mr L doesnt have the required DSC agreement in 
place and so I dont think Barclaycard acted unfairly when it rejected Mr Ls s75 claim. 
Barclaycard also raised a chargeback on Mr Ls behalf with the card scheme provider. 
Chargeback is a voluntary process and is subject to the card scheme rules  there is no 
guarantee of success and if a temporary refund is given, there is no guarantee the consumer 
will be able to keep it. I can see Mr L was given a refund and told this was temporary, 
subject to the chargeback outcome. Unfortunately, Mr Ls chargeback was defended and as such was unsuccessful. Whilst, it 
wasnt for Barclaycard to decide the chargeback outcome, it did need to progress the 
chargeback in line with the scheme rules and provide the supporting evidence. Having 
reviewed the information provided, I can see that it provided supporting evidence, including 
the evidence it had gathered. However, Im not satisfied Mr L has done enough to 
demonstrate the services werent carried out with reasonable care and skill. So I dont think 
Barclaycard needed to do anything more in relation to the chargeback. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint against Barclays Bank UK 
PLC (trading as Barclaycard). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Claire Lisle
Ombudsman
