DRN-4346082
The complaint
Ms Y complains that HDI Global Specialty SE hasnt paid for a claim she made on her 
commercial property insurance policy.
Reference to HDI Global includes its agents.
What happened
Ms Y holds a landlords insurance policy underwritten by HDI Global. When her property was 
damaged, she made a claim.
That claim still hasnt been paid. That decision by HDI Global forms the crux of this 
complaint. Im aware Ms Y has wider concerns, with other financial businesses, but they 
arent covered in the scope of this complaint, and so arent addressed further in this 
decision.
Ms Y thinks HDI Global hasnt done enough to help her when making this claim. She says it 
hasnt taken into account her vulnerabilities and protected characteristics. She doesnt think 
its made reasonable adjustments for her, and ultimately, thinks it should pay her claim  at 
least on an interim basis while it investigates it. Shes also unhappy about being asked about 
a CCJ she considered to be fraudulent.
HDI Global said ultimately it needed evidence of the damage caused. It said it originally 
wanted pictures but said it would send a loss adjuster round if Ms Y was able to be present. 
It said without evidence of the damage and its cause, its not able to pay the claim. It thinks 
it's treated her fairly and says it was entitled to ask about the CCJ.
Ms Y didnt agree and brought her complaint to us. One of our Investigators didnt 
recommend it be upheld. He thought ultimately HDI Global was acting reasonably when not 
paying her claim until it received the evidence it was requesting. He thought its offer of 
sending a loss adjuster was fair and thought it reasonable it required Ms y to be present for 
that visit. He thought the steps HDI Global had taken surrounding corresponding with Ms Y 
were reasonable too.
Ms Y didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ive considered everything Ive been sent, 
but this decision, as is our role as an informal service, will only address those I consider key. 
I understand Ms Y has been through and continues to suffer from a great deal of stress in 
relation to this claim. But, as the key points below outline, Im satisfied HDI Global has done 
what it needed to when handling it.
Ultimately it is for Ms Y to evidence she has a valid claim. Without evidence of the 
damage and its cause, I think its reasonable that HDI Global withhold any payment. 
It needs to be satisfied the damage claimed for is covered by the policy. I understand 
Ms Y has her reasons for not being able to provide the evidence needed, but without 
the evidence requested its reasonable to ask HDI Global to pay this claim.
Im satisfied the options HDI Global has given to Ms y are reasonable taking into 
account her vulnerabilities. Its clearly explained what evidence is needed, extended 
the timeframes to provide that evidence, and given alternative ways to collect that 
evidence. I think its reasonable HDI Global needs Ms Y to be in attendance if it were 
to send a loss adjuster to the property.
HDI steps to appoint specific members of staff to deal with Ms Ys claim is 
reasonable. This is to ensure Ms Y doesnt have to repeat things or share information 
shes already given.
HDI Global was acting reasonably when asking Ms Y about the CCJ. This was 
information it wasnt aware of, and while I understand Ms Ys reasons for not 
disclosing it before, HDI Global was entitled to ask her about it and to ask why it 
hadnt been disclosed.
Ms Y has said she feels discriminated against under the Equality Act 2010. Shes 
said this because she doesnt think HDI Global has fairly considered adjustments. Im 
not going to make a finding on whether or not HDI Global has breached that act. But 
Im not persuaded by the evidence that Ive seen that Ms Y has been discriminated 
against or treated unfairly. I appreciate the situation she finds herself in, but Im 
satisfied HDI Global has made reasonable adjustments to try and assist her when 
making this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman