DRN-2722462
The complaint
Mr S complains that National Westminster Bank PLC failed to provide adequate reasonable 
adjustments for him to enter a bank branch. 
What happened
Mr S complains that his local NatWest branch  Ill call Branch D  isnt accessible at the 
entrance of the branch. And although the bank has installed an external bell this hasnt 
worked on several occasions. Which has meant Mr S has had to wait long periods of time 
before being able to carry out financial activities. Mr S explained hed like NatWest to install 
either an entrance ramp or an internal lift.
 
Mr S complained to NatWest. NatWest accepted that the bell had stopped working  and 
apologised that Mr S had been left waiting. NatWest explained that theyd requested 
planning permission for a ramp, however this had been refused, and going forward theyd 
implement measures to ensure the bell was working properly. And the bank paid Mr S £150 
in compensation.
Mr S wasnt happy with NatWests response so complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint but didnt uphold it. They accepted 
that NatWest had made an error and should have done more in ensuring the bell was 
operational. But they thought the compensation paid of £150 was fair. 
Mr S didnt accept our investigators opinion. In summary he said:
On two occasions he was restricted from accessing the branch.
He thinks its a breach of the Equality Act 2010.
As Mr S didnt accept our investigators view its been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And Ive explained 
why below. 
Its not our role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for 
the Courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In order 
to decide that, however, we have to take a number of things into account including relevant 
law and what we consider to have been good industry practice at the time. So although its 
for the Courts to say whether or not NatWest has breached the Equality Act 2010, were 
required to take the Equality Act 2010 into account, if its relevant, amongst other things 
when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. That 
includes thinking about what a Court would likely decide if Mr S were to make a claim under 
the Equality Act 2010  the relevant provisions of which Ive set out below.
The relevant provision of the Equality Act states:
It is a requirement, where a physical feature puts a disabled person at a substantial 
disadvantage in relation to a relevant matter in comparison with persons who are not 
disabled, to take such steps as it is reasonable to have to take to avoid the disadvantage.
This can involve:
(a)removing the physical feature in question,
(b)altering it, or
(c)providing a reasonable means of avoiding it.
The physical feature which puts Mr S at a disadvantage is the two steps at the entrance to 
Branch D. According to the Equality Act NatWest need to put reasonable actions in place to 
avoid the disadvantage. NatWest have argued that theyve put in place actions  including 
the implementation of an external bell. And theyre unable to put in place a ramp as Mr S 
requests  due to planning permission being refused. Ive thought about whether, in general, 
NatWests use of the external bell is a reasonable action to avoid the disadvantage caused 
by the steps. And I realise this will disappoint Mr S  but I think it is. I say this because if 
operated correctly  with the bell functioning properly  Im satisfied the bell allows Mr S 
access to the branch. I appreciate that Mr S would like an external ramp or an internal lift 
installed. Ive considered these suggestions however as the local authority refused planning 
permission for the work I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to require NatWest to do 
this by way of an adjustment. 
  
However, theres more for me to consider than this. Mr S is unhappy that although NatWest 
installed an external bell for disabled access on several occasions the bell wasnt working 
properly  and he was waiting outside for long periods of time. NatWest dont dispute Mr Ss 
description here. Therefore rather than deciding what I think most likely happened, I instead 
need to reach a finding on whether I think the level of compensation NatWest have offered 
was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr S has explained that he used Branch D to deposit cheques and withdraw cash. And on 
several occasions he had to wait long periods of time outside the branch because the bell 
wasnt functioning properly. Its clear that Mr S suffered some inconvenience here, and Im 
sure it was upsetting to him to have to wait so long before he was assisted. However, Im 
satisfied that £150 is fair compensation in recognition of this. 
Id also expect NatWest to put changes in place at Branch D to ensure that Mr S isnt in the 
same situation in the future. And Im pleased to see that NatWest have explained theyve 
added an additional sign to the front of the building letting customers know there may be a 
wait if staff are attending to other customers, and theyve set up a diary system for staff to 
regularly check the bell is working correctly. Ive considered whether these actions are 
reasonable, and Im aware that unfortunately Mr S may experience some future 
inconvenience because staff arent always available, however in the circumstances I think 
they are. I say this because the bank isnt authorised to make physical alterations to the 
building and Im satisfied its not a reasonable expectation for the bank to have a member of 
staff available at all times. 
For the reasons Ive explained above I wont be asking NatWest to do anything further here. 
My final decisionMy final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman