DRN-2966127
The complaint
Mrs C complains about how QIC Europe Ltd handled and settled a claim she made under
her home insurance policy for storm damage to her property.
Mrs C is represented by her daughter in bringing this complaint. But for clarity  Ill refer to all
submissions as being made by Mrs C directly
.What happened
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 6 July 2021  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained why I thought QIC had acted reasonably and fairly. 
And I outlined the reasons why I wasnt minded to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. I said:
What happened
Mrs C held a household insurance policy, which is provided by QIC. She said that, during the
night of 26 December and early hours of 27 December 2020, a storm caused damage to the
flat roof of her property. She said the high winds resulted in the flat roof covering being
ripped off and this led to rainwater ingress, which damaged the walls and ceiling to both rear
bedrooms, the bathroom and front room.
Mrs C paid for emergency temporary repair work to her roof immediately after discovering
the damage. This work involved covering the roof with a tarpaulin to prevent further damage
occurring. She later paid for permanent property repairs. And, on 29 December 2020, Mrs C
contacted QIC to make a claim under her policy for storm damage.
QIC appointed a surveyor, L to attend Mrs Cs property and determine the cause of
damage to her roof. L visited Mrs Cs home on around 5 January 2021 to inspect her roof.
Following Ls inspection, it told QIC the property was in a fair state of repair. It explained
that, while Mrs C had advised that the flat roof was 6 years old, it thought it was much older
as the felt appeared brittle, was fraying in places and the perimeter areas were cracked and
split. It thought the recent weather conditions had highlighted the poor condition of the roof.
QIC considered Ls cause of damage report with its in-house surveying team. And, based on
Ls opinion, QIC repudiated Mrs Cs claim. It didnt think the weather at around the time the
damage occurred met its storm criteria. And it thought the damage had been caused as a
result of age-related wear and tear and a lack of maintenance of the roof. It explained that
damage caused in this way was excluded by Mrs Cs policy.
 
Mrs C wasnt happy with how QIC proposed to resolve her claim. She thought, as thered
been strong winds at around the time the damage occurred, a storm had caused the
damage to her roof. And, because Mrs C had paid a significant sum of money for repairs to
her property, she complained that QIC wouldnt meet her claim.
QIC investigated Mrs Cs concerns. But it maintained its stance that the damage wasnt
caused by a one-off storm event as was required by her policy. It therefore didnt uphold her
complaint about the way it had settled her claim.
Being dissatisfied with how QIC had dealt with her complaint Mrs C referred it to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and recommended partially upholding this
complaint. She thought QIC had acted fairly and reasonably in concluding that the roof had
sustained damage due to wear and tear. But she thought the claim for internal damage
should be settled by QIC. While Mrs C accepted our investigators view of her complaint,
QIC disagreed with it and requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered all the
information provided by Mrs C and QIC but Ill concentrate my decision on what I think is
relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive
failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it
in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
My role, here, is to assess whether I think QIC made a mistake, or treated Mrs C unfairly,
such that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything she
and QIC have said, Im departing from the conclusions our investigator reached when she
assessed this complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that damage occurred to Mrs Cs property. However, theres
disagreement between her, QIC and its appointed agent about the cause of the damage and
the correct outcome of this claim.
Mrs C would like QIC to reimburse the costs she incurred in repairing her property because
she believes the damage was caused by adverse weather. Her policy with QIC provides
cover for damage caused by a range of perils that might happen. These are specific one-off
events and include storm, for example. But, for a claim to be successful, Mrs C would have
to show that the damage shes claiming for was caused by one of the perils listed in her
policy.
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim for
storm damage should succeed. Those are:
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
I have re-assessed Mrs Cs complaint and all the evidence with these three questions in
mind. And I should also clarify that all three questions must be answered affirmatively for this
service to be able to recommend that a storm complaint is upheld.
In weighing up the first question, I can see that Mrs Cs policy defines the word storm as:
a gale of Force 10 or above (as defined under the internationally recognised Beaufort
Scale) reaching wind speeds of at least 55 mph; or torrential rain that falls at a rate of at
least 24 mm per hour; or snow that falls to a depth of at least 30 cm in 24 hours; or hail so
severe that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.So, Ive kept this definition in mind when deciding whether there were storm conditions on or
around the date of Mrs Cs claim.
Ive checked the weather reports relevant to Mrs Cs locality for storm conditions at around
the time she says her roof sustained damage. These show that wind speeds of 62 mph were
recorded on 27 December 2020 at a weather station around 2 miles from Mrs Cs property.
The rainfall recorded was a maximum of 3 mm per hour on the same date.
While the documented rainfall is below the policy definition of a storm, the wind speeds meet
QICs storm definition. Im therefore satisfied there was a storm on the date the damage
occurred and that I can answer question one affirmatively.
Turning now to the second question, Ive carefully thought about whether the damage
caused is consistent with what we would normally consider to be storm damage. In this case
the flat roof sustained damage. Im satisfied, overall, that roof damage is something that
could be expected following a storm. So, Im able to answer this question affirmatively.
As regards the third question I have to address, L said that, during its inspection, it observed
areas where the roof felt was brittle, fraying, cracked and split. It also stated it had doubts
that the felt roof was only 6 years old as Mrs C had advised.
Having carefully considered the photographs our service has seen of Mrs Cs roof, I can
understand why L had doubts about the reported age of the roof. It appears older than 6
years and is extremely weathered in places.
I understand that Mrs C initially expressed concerns that the photographs showed the roof of 
her neighbours property instead of her own. However, our investigator clarified with Mrs C
that the photographs depict her roof. Im therefore satisfied our service has the correct
images and that these were the photographs on which both L and QIC based its opinion
about Mrs Cs claim.
The photographs of Mrs Cs roof demonstrate significant age-related deterioration of the flat
roof. The appearance of the roof matches the description L outlined in its report. And the
photographs Ive seen support Ls opinion that the roof is in poor condition with a felt
covering that has been deteriorating for some time.
Felt deterioration doesnt happen due to a one-off storm event. If its been correctly applied
and maintained it should be weather resistant and unaffected by storm related weather 
although it will deteriorate over time when exposed to extremes of weather.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs C but Im persuaded by Ls opinion that the damage was
predominantly caused by the gradual deterioration of the roof felt. Based on the evidence
Ive seen, I think its most likely that the adverse weather that Mrs C experienced in late
December 2020 exposed the pre-existing condition of the roof and caused it to worsen. I
dont think the roof would have suffered the damage it did had the felt been in good
condition. And Im not persuaded the damage was caused by a one-off storm event as Mrs
Cs policy requires.
 
Under the terms of Mrs Cs policy loss or damage caused by wear and tear is specifically
excluded. This is in common with most home insurance policies because insurance is
intended to cover the unforeseen. And something wearing out or requiring maintenance isnt
unforeseen.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Ive seen cogent evidence that shows the
cause of damage to the roof was wear and tear. It follows that I cant fairly find that QIC
acted unfairly in relying on a wear and tear exclusion clause to repudiate Mrs Cs claim. And,as the damage Mrs C claimed for isnt covered under her policy, I cant fairly ask QIC to
settle her roof claim under the storm peril.
I can see that our investigator recommended that QIC reconsider, and settle, Mrs Cs claim
for internal property damage as she thought this had been caused by a storm. But I dont
agree. While Ive seen photographs showing that Mrs Cs property sustained internal water
damage, Ive already explained, that the damage to the roof was caused by age-related
wear and tear. Im satisfied that, if the roof had been well maintained and in good condition,
there wouldnt have been ingress of rainwater into Mrs Cs property  and thered have been
no internal damage. The internal damage has therefore been caused by the age-related
wear and tear of the felt roof.
Ive thought about whether Mrs Cs claim could be met under any other sections of her
policy. However, I can see from Mrs Cs policy schedule that she chose not to take out
accidental damage buildings cover when she incepted her policy. So, I cant fairly ask QIC to
consider settling Mrs Cs claim as accidental damage. And I also cant say the damage
should be covered by any other parts of her insurance policy.
I know Mrs C will be disappointed with this provisional decision. Shes already incurred
considerable expense in paying for the repairs to her property. And I know she feels very
strongly about the issues raised in her complaint. But for the reasons outlined, my
provisional decision is that Im not persuaded QIC acted unfairly in declining this claim.
In my provisional decision, I invited both parties to respond with any additional information 
they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision, which is our service's last word 
on the matter.
QIC responded to confirm it had received my provisional decision and had nothing further to 
add. However, it asked our service to forward any evidence Mrs C might provide in response 
to my provisional decision so that it could be considered. Mrs C responded to say that she 
was unhappy with my provisional decision but didnt have any further information or 
evidence to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in light of the fact neither party has presented any new evidence or 
arguments for my consideration, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in 
my provisional decision. I still dont think Mrs C's complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman