DRN-4411967
The complaint
Miss A complains that Ageas Insurance Limited paid another drivers claim against her motor 
insurance policy. She wants it to increase its compensation and prosecute the other driver 
for fraud. 
What happened
Another driver notified Ageas that Miss A had hit and damaged their parked car and they 
had video evidence to show this. Ageas said it tried to contact Miss A without success. So it 
settled the other drivers claim as total loss to avoid storage and hire costs. 
When Miss A complained, Ageas agreed that it hadnt sufficiently investigated the claim 
before settling it. And it recorded the claim as non-fault and reinstated Miss As No Claims 
Discount (NCD). But Miss A remained unhappy.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Ageas 
should have done more to try and contact Miss A before settling the claim. He thought 
Ageas had reasonably restored Miss As NCD and she could now ask her new insurer to 
rerate her premium. But he thought Ageas should also pay Miss A £150 compensation for 
her trouble and upset.
Ageas agreed to do this. But Miss A thought it should offer further compensation and that it 
should pursue the other driver for fraud. Miss A asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
Ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss A felt upset when she learned that Ageas had paid the claim and 
frustrated that it hadnt made contact with her before it did so. 
The Investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing an accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Miss A the same as someone else in her position. 
Ageas is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Miss A to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Miss A has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of a claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. 
This is a common term in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are 
entitled to take a commercial decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party 
claim or better to compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim before making its decision 
on liability. And Ageas agrees that, on this occasion, it failed to do this. Ageas has now 
provided us with its file. 
I can see that after the other drivers representative contacted it to make a claim Ageas 
emailed and wrote to Miss A once and called her once, without success, before deciding to 
settle the claim. Ageas said it had contacted Miss A successfully by email on other 
occasions. But Miss A said she didnt receive its email or letter. I can see that they were 
correctly addressed. But Ageas agrees that it should have made further attempts to contact 
Miss A for her version of events. 
Ageas said the other drivers representative told it that it had video evidence of the incident, 
but Ageas didnt request this until Miss A complained a year later. This wasnt then provided. 
Photographs of damage to the car and an engineers report were provided and Ageas 
thought these were consistent with the incident circumstances. 
The other driver had provided Miss As name and address and the incident was reported to 
have happened nearby. Ageas was told that the other driver was incurring hire and storage 
costs. So it said it settled the claim on a without prejudice basis to avoid further costs. No 
evidence of these charges was ever provided. 
I think Ageas should have done more to try and make contact with Miss A who said she was 
out of the country at the time. Ageas didnt ask for the video footage or the evidence of 
charges incurred. So I think Ageas didnt sufficiently try and contact Miss A or investigate the 
alleged incident before making its decision to settle the total loss claim. And I also think it 
should have told Miss A that it had settled the claim, but it didnt. 
The outcome for Miss A was that she learned of the incident only when her premium 
increased at a subsequent renewal. Miss A then found that Ageas had paid the claim, and 
this upset her. And Miss A had to pay an increased premium for her new policy. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Ageas accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
Ageas has already changed how the claim is recorded on the Claims and Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE) from fault to non-fault and restored Miss As NCD. Miss A can now have 
her new insurer reconsider her premium. And so I think that reasonably restores her 
position.
Our Investigator recommended that Ageas should pay Miss A £150 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused. And I think thats in keeping with our published guidance for the 
impact the error had. So I think thats fair and reasonable. 
Miss A said there had been consequences for others when she was unable to insure her car 
and so couldnt drive to appointments. But I can only consider Miss As losses and I havent 
seen any evidence to show that she incurred any direct losses due to Ageas error. 
Miss A also wanted Ageas to pursue the other driver for fraud. But, as the Investigator 
explained, thats for Ageas to decide and I cant require it to take any action against the other 
driver or their representatives.
Putting things right
I require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Miss A £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its level of service, as its already agreed to do.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Ageas Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman