DRN-3280012
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice given by Oakhouse Financial Services Limited to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a Royal London 
Pension Portfolio with Income Release. 
He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has exposed him to 
unnecessary financial risks.
What happened
Mr B approached Oakland in 2016 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. 
Oakland completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Bs circumstances and 
objectives. This showed the following:
Mr B was 65 and looking to retire. He was working as a director and took an income 
of £644 per month from this role. 
Mr B was a homeowner and also had an investment property that provided rental 
income
He had around £19,000 spread across his bank account and ISA. 
There was also around £170,000 invested in a stocks and shares ISA
Mr Bs current DB scheme offered benefits of either a guaranteed annual income of 
£35,859.20 (escalating 3% per annum), or the option to take a £165,504 tax-free 
lump sum with an annual income of £24,825.60 (escalating 3% per annum). Both 
options included a spouses pension of £17,929.30 with a five-year guaranteed 
period.
Mr B also had the option to choose to take a lower lump sum from the pension or to 
increase the spouses income by reducing his income.
The pension could be transferred with a transfer value of around £799,000
Mr Bs attitude to risk was balanced
Mr B wanted to take tax-free cash to invest in a property, for the purpose of rental 
income. 
Mr B also wanted the flexibility of accessing his pension as and when he wanted, 
rather than take the monthly income offered by the scheme.
In 2017, Oakland advised Mr B to transfer his pension benefits into a Royal London Pension 
Portfolio with Income Release. The suitability report said the reasons for this 
recommendation were;
To allow Mr B to take out tax free cash (TFC) of  around £200,000 to fund an 
investment property purchase.
To allow Mr B to take an income of approximately £10,000 a year, in the hope that 
his wife would be able to take a higher income at a later date and avoid in the 
immediate term paying a higher rate of tax.
To provide Mr B with flexibility when drawing on his pension income, and to allow him 
to pass on death benefits to his wife and children.
Mr B complained in 2020 to Oakland about the suitability of the transfer advice because he 
felt that Oakland had not given appropriate advice and exposed him to unnecessary risks.
Oakland didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said that it had provided appropriate advice for Mr 
B while considering his own personal circumstances and that the transfer allowed him to 
achieve the financial goals discussed.
Mr B referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and required 
Oakland to pay compensation. They said that Mr B couldve achieved his retirement goals by 
remaining in his current scheme, which would not have exposed him to unnecessary risk  
and that the reasons Oakland had given for the transfer did not outweigh the potential 
exposure to those risks.
Oakland disagreed, saying it felt that the investigators view did not reflect a thorough 
understanding of the benefits of income drawdown for a client in a situation such as Mr Bs 
and for his overall circumstances.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Oakland should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Bs best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked 
at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests. 
Financial viability 
When assessing the suitability of DB pension transfer advice, we normally expect 
businesses to explain why they thought transferring-out was in the consumers best interests 
from a financial viability perspective. To do this, we usually expect advisors to explain what 
levels of growth the pension funds might achieve outside the scheme, compared with the 
benefits available through the scheme, so we can assess whether transferring out of the DB 
scheme to a personal pension was the right thing to do. 
Typically, we use a metric known as the critical yield to help demonstrate how much a 
pension would need to grow by to match the benefits provided by the DB scheme. In this 
case, however, Ive noted Oakland hasnt provided these figures but has used some cash-
flow examples in its suitability letters to show how Mr Bs pension (if transferred) would have 
lasted in his retirement years. Because of Mr Bs age  he was already at the point of actual 
retirement  I think the critical yield figures and the discount rates we would usually refer to wouldnt have been of much relevance given he was already around the normal retirement 
age for both schemes and was looking to take benefits immediately.
Ive therefore looked at everything else weve been sent to help determine whether 
transferring out of the DB scheme could be said to have been in Mr Bs best interests.
Oakland recommended that Mr B invest in a Royal London Pension Portfolio with income 
release and has provided some fund growth analysis graphs to show how Mr B couldve 
used his pension pot. 
It made the following assumptions for its most generous analysis
Mr Bs starting fund value is £799,673 
Mr B did not take a lump sum.
That Mr B begin to take monthly withdrawals of £2,988.26 9 (the annual amount of 
£35,859.20 which is what Mr B was currently being offered his DB scheme.)
It assumed a growth rate of 4% net of charges (i.e. after fund management charges, adviser
charges etc.- meaning actual growth of at least 5%) and allowing for an increase in income 
at a rate of 3%. And based on the above assumptions, calculated that Mr Bs fund could last 
until age 91.
The growth rate used was consistent with the regulators middle projection rate of 5%, which 
was potentially achievable based on Mr Bs balanced attitude to risk. But it also may not 
have been achieved consistently if there was market volatility  whereas Mr Bs current DB 
scheme was guaranteed. Furthermore, the suitability report stated that if growth was lower  
3% net of fees and charges  then the fund would run out by the time Mr B reached age 88. 
So, if Mr B took the same level of benefits his DB scheme provided from the personal 
pension, there was a real risk of the funds running out, particularly if Mr B lived a long life 
and investment returns were poor. 
Nevertheless, I also consider the fund analysis graph to be fundamentally flawed as it does 
not allow for the £200,000 TFC that Oakland says that Mr B wanted to take in order to invest 
in property for the rental market. Oakland has said that the lump sum was excluded because 
in a flexible drawdown contract Mr B had the option of taking income as a blend of his tax 
free and taxable income, which may be the most tax efficient way for Mr B to take his income 
or at least an option to consider. 
But the primary reason for Mr B wanting to take a lump sum was to invest in property  so 
taking this in a flexible way wouldnt have allowed him to do this. Had the TFC lump sum 
been taken into account, Mr B wouldve needed to take out a significantly lower monthly 
income form the pot, in order for it to last to age 91. It does appear that Oakland later 
produced a cashflow analysis showing the impact of Mr B taking TFC of around £200,000 
and then taking an income of £10,400 per year, escalating at 3%. It said this showed Mr B 
wouldve had a substantial fund left over if he passed away at age 91  over £1million. 
However, Oakland failed to give Mr B a meaningful comparison with the benefits he was 
giving up. It ought to have shown the impact of Mr B taking the same benefits the scheme 
provided (TFC of £165,504 and an annual increasing income of £24,825.60). It seems to me 
that the fund wouldve likely run out far sooner. Without providing Mr B with such a 
comparison, I dont think he wouldve understood that he was likely to be worse off in 
retirement as a result of transferring his benefits to a personal pension.
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Bs best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as Oakland has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is 
suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
Mr B wouldve been able to take a lump sum of £165,504 from his current DB scheme  
albeit a lower amount than he was able to under the recommendation made from Oakland. 
Taking this sum as TFC wouldve allowed him to take a reduced annual income of 
£24,825.60.
Oakland says that Mr B needed TFC of around £200,000  which was above what his 
current DB scheme allowed. But Mr B has provided information that shows he purchased a 
property at £165,000  which he couldve funded with the TFC provided by his DB scheme. 
And even if the property he purchased had been more expensive or if he required additional 
funds for renovations as Oakland has suggested, I think Mr B had other assets he couldve 
utilised to make up the difference. Mr B had £19,000 in cash accounts and access to an 
additional £170,000 in a stocks and shares ISA. I dont think the fact that Mr B could only 
replace up to £20,000 per year in an ISA shouldve been a barrier to this  using the 
maximum ISA allowance should never be prioritised over security in retirement. 
Ultimately, I think Oakland needed to do more to understand the exact amount of money 
Mr B required to meet his needs and fully explore the alternatives to cashing in the pension. 
And if Mr B did in fact need the full £200,000 then he already had access to this sum through 
his scheme and savings. So, I dont think Mr B needed to transfer his pension to meet this 
need.
Oakland also suggests that Mr B didnt need to take the income as he was living comfortably 
off his rental income and other assets  and that he couldve avoided paying unnecessary 
taxes by not taking an income, and using his pension pot flexibly to allow for fallow periods 
when the rental income was not as high. 
Oakland adds that rental demand was and remains high  but it is still risky to place reliance 
on rental income and potential property sales to meet a clients retirement needs. The rental 
income cant be guaranteed and despite the pandemic being a totally unforeseen event, it 
clearly demonstrates the risks involved. The issues Mr B had with a tenant that Oakland 
alludes to is another example of this. 
Oakland says that Mr B was able to meet his needs during the pandemic, when his rental 
income was impacted, by using his pension pot flexibly to meet his outgoings. But Mr B 
wouldnt have needed to do this if hed taken the benefits from the scheme. Hed have had at 
least £25,000 per year coming in which ought to have been sufficient to meet his expenses 
when he wasnt in receipt of rental income. And the impact of Mr B taking this extra income 
from his pension is likely to have an adverse effect on his retirement.
Oakland says taking income from the scheme wouldve pushed Mr B into a higher tax 
bracket because the income he received from his rental property was substantial. However, 
Oakland didnt record what income Mr B received from his rental property, so I dont know by 
how much this would put Mr B in a higher tax band. But even if it meant that Mr B paid more 
tax, I think it was worth it to ensure his security in retirement. And its evident that any excess 
income either from the pension or rental property could be saved or even gifted to his 
children in a tax-efficient manner. 
Overall, I dont think Mr B required flexibility in retirement in this way  instead, it was simply 
a consequence of the transfer. I think Mr B was able to meet his objectives without transferring out of the DB scheme and that the downside of paying extra tax was more than 
compensated for by the guarantees Mr B would retain for him and Mrs B. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr B. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr B might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr B about what 
was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in 
retirement. And I dont think Mr B explored to what extent Mr B was prepared to accept a 
lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr B 
was married and had a dependent child and so the spouses/dependents pension provided 
by the DB scheme wouldve been useful to his spouse and dependents if Mr B predeceased 
them. I dont think Oakland made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr B. This was 
guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas 
the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. And as the cashflow analysis shows, 
on Mr Bs death there may not have been a large sum left or the fund may have been 
depleted entirely, particularly if Mr B lived a long life or investment returns were poor.  In any 
event, Oakland should not have encouraged Mr B to prioritise the potential for higher death 
benefits over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, Mr B already had £150,000 in whole of life cover  so I would question why 
Mr B wouldve needed funds in excess of this. If he did indeed need extra funds, he couldve 
started a trust and redirected excess income that way. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through the transfer justified the likely 
decrease of retirement benefits for Mr B. 
Suitability of investments
Oakland recommended that Mr B invest in a Royal London Pension Portfolio with Income 
Release. As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB 
scheme wasnt suitable for Mr B, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the 
investment recommendation. This is because Mr B should have been advised to remain in 
the DB scheme and so the investment wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been 
given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr B. But Oakland wasnt 
there to just transact what Mr B might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to 
really understand what Mr B needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr B was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr B was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits and, in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this.  Mr B shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to purchase an investment property when his current scheme and assets 
wouldve allowed him to achieve this goal already, and the potential for higher death benefits 
wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme.So, I think Oakland shouldve advised Mr B to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr B would've gone ahead anyway, against 
Oaklands's advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr B wouldve 
insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against Oaklands advice. I say this because 
while Oakland suggests he was an experienced investor, Mr B was not experienced in 
pensions, and  in any event, Oakland recorded his attitude to risk as balanced when it 
provided the advice, and this pension accounted for the majority of Mr Bs retirement 
provision. So, if Oakland given him clear advice against transferring out and explained that 
Mr B could meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that 
wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr B would have insisted on transferring 
out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Oakland should compensate Mr B for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Ive taken into account Oaklands comments that Mr Bs complaint is opportunistic and that 
it has been driven by the impact of the pandemic on his fund value, which has since 
recovered. But Mr B is entitled to complain about the advice he received and it isnt 
surprising that the drop in value of his pension fund caused him to question whether the 
advice he received was suitable.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr B, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Oaklands unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B would 
have most likely remained in his DB scheme, and taken the tax free lump sum available to 
him of £165,504, along with the reduced income of £24,825.60 (escalating 3% per annum) if 
suitable advice had been given.
Oakland must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr B retired at 65, so this should be the basis for the calculations.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
Oakland may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date Oakland receives notification 
of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Oakland to pay Mr B.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Oakhouse Financial 
Services Limited to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Oakhouse Financial Services Limited to pay Mr B any interest on that amount in full, as set 
out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Oakhouse 
Financial Services Limited to pay Mr B any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Oakhouse Financial Services Limited pays Mr B the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr B.
If Mr B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Oakhouse Financial 
Services Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2022.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman