DRN-3621998
The complaint
Mr F, who is represented by a third party, complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
(Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale agreement (agreement) he 
couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In January 2016, Mr F acquired a used car financed by an agreement from Moneybarn. 
Having paid a cash deposit of £1,000 Mr F was then required to make 59 monthly 
repayments of £231.67. The total repayable under the agreement was £14.668.53 at an 
APR of 30.9%. 
Mr F says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a search of Mr Fs credit file and checking 
his income. Moneybarn also said it was aware of a recent default (five months old), but this 
didnt cause it concern as Mr F was keeping up with all his other credit commitments. 
Mr F was sent several arrears notices, notice of sums in arrears and default notices by 
Moneybarn and it appears that he entered into one or more formal or informal payment plans 
with it.
In November 2019 Mr F took the decision  as was his right  to voluntary terminate the 
agreement. To account for this Moneybarn reduced the sum due and owing under Mr Fs 
agreement by £3,243.38, leaving an outstanding balance due and owing of £1,295.01.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. He 
thought Moneybarn didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance.
Mr F didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn and Mr Fs appointed representative will be familiar with all the rules, regulations 
and good industry practice we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable 
and irresponsible lending. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision. Information about our approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
The information available to Moneybarn showed that Mr F had had a default around five 
months old and that his income was around £550 less than he had declared he was earning 
in his application.
Like the investigator I think the above (alone or taken together) ought to have been enough 
to prompt Moneybarn to question whether Mr F could sustainably repay the finance. And 
because of my view in this respect it follows that it would have been both reasonable and 
proportionate for Moneybarn to have gathered significantly more detail about Mr Fs financial 
circumstances before lending, such as verifying his income and expenditure. 
Ive considered what Moneybarn would likely have found out if it had completed reasonable 
and proportionate affordability checks. Now its not my role to make a finding on what further 
checks Moneybarn could and should have undertaken. But for the purpose of making a 
finding in this case Ive gone on to consider what an inspection of Mr Fs bank statements 
and the completion of an income and expenditure form might have uncovered. 
Having done so I can confirm that I agree with the investigator that based on what Mr Fs 
2015/2016 bank statements show and what Mr F says his outgoings were between 2018 
and 2020 in one or more completed income and expenditure forms (these being at least 
indicative of his 2016 expenditure) reasonable and proportionate checks by Moneybarn 
wouldnt have caused it to conclude that it shouldnt lend to Mr F.
I appreciate Mr F will be disappointed, but Im not persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly 
in approving the finance.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman