DRN-3876819
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) blocked transactions on his
account while he was on holiday, causing him inconvenience and expense.
What happened
Mr M holds a credit card account with Nationwide. Last year, he and his wife went
abroad. Mr M says they went into a Nationwide branch before they went, to add a phone
number to the account so that they could be contacted while they were away.
Early on in the trip, Nationwide blocked a transaction on Mr Ms credit card. It was a genuine
transaction, but it was picked up by Nationwides security system as being potentially
fraudulent. Nationwide says it tried calling Mr M about it but couldnt reach him on the phone.
Several days later, Mr M called Nationwide about the blocked transaction. Nationwide said it
would call him back within a few minutes. But Mr M didnt hear anything. He called
Nationwide several times. Each time it said it would call him back, but Mr M never received a
call. Nationwide says it did call back. But it wasnt using the number which had recently been
added to the account, so it didnt get through to him. As a result, the transactions werent
authorised until Mr M returned to the UK.
Mr M complained to Nationwide. He said hed provided a phone number so that it would be
able to contact him while he was away. He said hed spent a lot of his holiday time trying to
contact Nationwide to sort out the issue. He said the situation had caused him
embarrassment and stress, as the main transaction which was blocked was the payment for
his holiday accommodation. He said that the delay in paying meant the holiday cost more as
the exchange rate had changed in the meantime.
Nationwide said it didnt have any record of a phone number being added in the branch
before Mr Ms trip. But it said its security policy only allows it to contact customers on a
phone number which has been recorded on the account for more than 30 days. It didnt
uphold the complaint as it said it had followed its security procedures correctly.
I issued a provisional decision on 21 November 2022, indicating my intention to uphold this 
complaint. I said I thought that Nationwide should pay compensation of £150 to Mr M. Both 
parties responded to the provisional decision. Nationwide accepted my recommendations 
and Mr M provided some further comments for me to consider. Im now making a final 
decision about the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ms further comments and thought about everything again. I havent seen 
anything which changes my mind about the appropriate outcome here, so Im going to 
uphold the complaint in the way I indicated in my provisional decision. My reasons are as 
follows.
The starting point is that its right for Nationwide to have security measures and
procedures in place to safeguard customers accounts and prevent fraud so far as possible.
As to exactly what those procedures are and how theyre carried out, thats for Nationwide to
decide. What I need to decide is whether it followed its procedures correctly and acted fairly
in the circumstances here.
Mr M says that he regularly visits the place he went to on this occasion and that Nationwide
has allowed similar transactions to go through in previous years. He says that Nationwide
ought to have recognised that the transactions werent unusual for his account. He also
queries why some transactions were stopped but not others.
Nationwide has explained that it has a system in place to identify transactions which may be
fraudulent. It says the security procedure doesnt involve looking at customers previous
holiday destinations or similar transactions in previous years. It has explained that the
system is automated and Nationwide has no control over which transactions it will flag. I
think thats a reasonable explanation. Its in the nature of security checks like this that they
do sometimes cause inconvenience to customers. But the checks are in place to protect
customers and I dont think it was unreasonable that these transactions were picked up by
Nationwides system.
Nationwide says that, when a transaction is flagged by its security system, its policy is to call
the customer to verify the transaction. Nationwide says it tried calling Mr M on the day the
block was put in place. From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that it did so. But it tried to
call him on his phone numbers in the UK, so thats why it didnt get through.
Mr M called Nationwide himself a few days later. Nationwide says its policy requires it to
make an outbound call to a number held on the account in order to verify a transaction. So,
when Mr M called Nationwide, he was told he would get a call back. I think that was
reasonable. Im satisfied that Nationwide did try calling Mr M back. But, as before, it tried
calling his UK phone numbers so the calls didnt get through to him.
Mr M says that he and his wife had been into a branch before their holiday and provided a
contact number for use while they were away. Nationwide said in its response to the
complaint that it has no record of a branch visit. Mr M says he doesnt think Nationwide 
made any serious effort to check this before responding to the complaint. I dont know what 
checks were made at the time Nationwide received the complaint, but it did provide evidence 
later on that Mrs M visited the branch and provided a new contact number a few days before 
the holiday. 
I havent seen any notes of the visit from Nationwides side so Im not sure why the new
number was only recorded under Mrs Ms details. But Mr M says that they both attended,
told the member of staff that they were going away and gave her the dates of their holiday as
well as the holiday contact number. I have no reason to doubt what Mr M says about this. On
balance, I find that Mr M did provide Nationwide with a phone number to contact him on
while he was away. Nationwide says that theres no requirement for customers to let it know 
that they are going abroad. But I dont think it told Mr M this when he and his wife visited the 
branch for this purpose.
Nationwides final response letter acknowledges that Mr Ms phone number had been
updated recently. It says this was the reason a call from the Fraud Team was necessary as
opposed to an automated call. But the final response letter also says theres no evidence of
Mr M giving Nationwide a number to contact him on while he was away. I find that a phonenumber was added to the account shortly before the holiday. I find it unlikely that this phone
number was anything other than the one provided by Mr and Mrs M in the branch. So, I think
the information in the final response letter is confusing and appears to be incorrect.
Nationwide says that, under its security policy, it cant make outbound calls about the
account to numbers which have been added within the last 30 days. I think thats
reasonable. I find that Nationwide was following its security policy by attempting to call Mr M
on the established phone numbers, rather than the new number.
But I understand Mr Ms frustration that he had tried to avoid any problems by providing
Nationwide with a phone number that it could reach him on while he was away. I dont think
he could have known that Nationwide wouldnt be able to call him on the new number and I
think Nationwide should have been clearer about that.
Nationwide has referred to the travel advice section of its website. This tells customers to
make sure Nationwide has got their mobile number as thats the number it will use to call
them if their card gets blocked. It says they can update their mobile number in several ways,
including by visiting a branch. Mr M followed this advice  he updated his mobile number in
the branch before going away. The website doesnt say that the number cant be used by
Nationwide unless its been updated more than 30 days before. I dont think any reasonable
customer reading it could be expected to know that.
But Mr M went into the branch, so there was an opportunity for the branch assistant to tell
him when he and his wife provided the new phone number. If Mr M had found out at that
point that the number wouldnt be of any use from a card security point of view, he could
have thought about other arrangements while he was still in the UK.
And when Mr M rang Nationwide from his holiday saying he hadnt had the call back hed
been expecting, Nationwide still didnt tell him that it couldnt call a recently added number. If
it had done so, Mr M would have known why he wasnt receiving any calls. Instead, it
appeared to him at the time that Nationwide just wasnt calling him back, which added to the
stress of the situation. Mr M has also explained that his wife spent over an hour on a web 
chat to Nationwide answering detailed questions, but was cut off with no explanation before 
the chat had concluded. I havent seen anything which confirms why the chat was cut off, so 
I cant safely conclude that was Nationwides fault. But I can understand how this added to 
the distress and frustration of the situation.
As I said above, the new phone number was recorded under Mrs Ms contact details. But
Nationwide says it wouldnt contact her about the account as she isnt the main account
holder. When responding to the complaint, Nationwide told Mr M that it didnt call the number
because it was newly added to the account. But the comment that an additional cardholder
wouldnt be contacted raises the question whether Nationwide would have tried calling the
new number if it had been added more than 30 days beforehand. If not, then Mrs M ought to
have been told this in the branch when the phone number was added to her records as a
holiday contact number.
In conclusion, I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong by blocking the transactions and I 
think it was acting in line with its procedures. But I think there were communication mistakes 
which caused problems here. If Mr M had known that Nationwide needed to be able to 
contact him using a phone number which had been on his account for at least 30 days, I 
think hed have planned accordingly. I think its likely the blocked transaction would have had 
less of an impact in that case. I think Nationwide missed the opportunity to clarify the 
situation when Mr M visited the branch and again when he phoned from his holiday, causing 
further stress. And I think the information provided in response to the complaint has been 
inconsistent, adding to the confusion and distress.Mr M has provided further comments about the impact of the transaction being blocked. He 
says he was in despair until the landlady said he could leave payment until he returned to 
the UK and until he discovered that his card was accepted for other transactions including 
cash withdrawals. I dont underestimate the distress he experienced. But Ive balanced this 
against the fact that its always advisable for customers to travel with more than one
method of payment so that they arent entirely dependent on one card. Looking at the
situation overall, I dont think Nationwide is responsible for all the embarrassment and
inconvenience which Mr M suffered as a result of the payments being blocked. 
As Mr M has explained, he was able to make other transactions on the card and make a 
partial payment towards the accommodation costs using cash, with the balance being paid 
upon his return to the UK. So, I think the impact of the transaction being blocked was 
minimised. I realise that this might not have been possible had Mr M been staying elsewhere 
or with a less accommodating host. But Im making my decision based on the actual impact 
Mr M suffered, not on what might have happened.
Taking everything into account, I think Nationwide needs to pay some compensation to Mr M
for the distress and inconvenience he experienced. I think £150 would be a fair amount in
the circumstances here.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Nationwide Building Society should pay £150 
to Mr M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman