DRN-3835671
The complaint
Mr P says AJ Bell Asset Management Limited (AJ Bell) mismanaged the task of sending 
him the closure cheque for his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) in 2021. He says the 
cheque was supposed to be sent to him abroad by DHL but it was not, and that the process 
involved errors and delays before he eventually received and cashed it around six months 
later. He claims compensation and considers the £100 offered by AJ Bell to be insufficient.
What happened
Both parties have addressed the chronology of key events in this case and, in summary, 
they are as follows:
Mr P says he had asked AJ Bell, in May 2021, about having the SIPP closure cheque 
(the cheque) sent to a relatives address in the UK, but was told that could not be 
done and that the cheque could only be sent to his home address, which was abroad 
(the home address). On 31 August 2021 AJ Bell agreed to send the cheque to the 
home address by DHL, because ordinary mail was known to take a long time to 
arrive in the home address country and home-town. However, on 15 September 
2021 it updated him to say the cheque had been sent by Royal Mail on 3 September 
(with a tracking number). Royal Mails tracking service confirmed that the cheque 
reached the countrys capital on 10 September. 
On 29 September 2021 Mr P received notice that the cheque had arrived at his local 
post office. He collected it on 30 September and attempted to pay it into his bank 
account on the same date. As he did so, the bank staff told him the cheque was 
unacceptable. In his correspondence with AJ Bell the following month, he said the 
bank told him the cheque was unacceptable because it had an alteration in its date 
and because the British dating format used on the cheque was not acceptable in the 
home address country. In his complaint submission to this service, he explained that 
the alteration was the main reason the cheque was rejected and that it was unlikely 
the dating format would have impeded payment.
Mr P fed the problem back to AJ Bell. Both parties corresponded from 1 October 
2021, when he updated AJ Bell, and up to 18 October, when AJ Bell confirmed it had 
arranged for a new cheque (the second cheque) to be sent to him by DHL. During 
the correspondence, AJ Bell offered to transfer the cheques value to Mr Ps UK bank 
account but he made clear he needed the funds where he resided (abroad); it also 
wrongly suggested that the cheque had been encashed, which Mr P took objection to 
and subsequently received an apology (from AJ Bell) for. AJ Bell also explained that 
it did not normally use DHLs service, but it agreed to do so for the second cheque, 
and to use the required dating format.
On 29 October 2021 Mr P updated AJ Bell to say he had received the second 
cheque. He updated further on 7 November 2021 to say he had deposited it and that 
its clearance should take around three weeks. He complained about exchange rate 
depreciation he expected to incur due to the delay up to that point. AJ Bell 
acknowledged his complaint on 9 November. 
On 22 November 2021 Mr P updated AJ Bell again, to say he had been told by his 
bank that the second cheque had been rejected by AJ Bells bank (Bank of Scotland 
(BoS)). On the following date he told AJ Bell that the only reason for the rejection, 
as he had been told by his bank, was stated as no mandate.
AJ Bell replied on 23 November 2021 and confirmed that it would be looking into the 
matter. On 3 December it said it would send another cheque (the third cheque) and 
that it had verified the second cheque against its mandate with BoS and found no 
error. It repeated its offer to send the cheques value to his UK bank account and it 
said, in response to Mr Ps query at the time, that it could not make a [transfer] 
payment to his bank account abroad. Mr Ps repeated request to have the cheque 
sent to an address in the UK was also declined.
On 20 December 2021, Mr P updated AJ Bell to say he had received the third 
cheque, and confirmed he would be submitting it to his bank the following day. In a 
further update on 20 January 2022 he told AJ Bell the cheque had yet to be cleared, 
and he referred to the impact upon him and his family caused by being deprived of 
the cheques funds around that time. He provided the same update, on the cheque, 
on 3 February 2022. On 24 February 2022 the third cheque was cleared in his 
account.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. He considered that the £100 offered to Mr P, by AJ Bell, was enough compensation 
for the trouble caused by the parts of the process it mishandled, but there were no grounds 
to ask it to pay more. His main findings and, where relevant, Mr Ps rebuttals to them are as 
follows:
The terms for the SIPP provided only for transfer payments to a UK bank account, 
and AJ Bells approach towards sending payments overseas by cheque was relevant 
to its protection of customers funds. 
In response, Mr P said AJ Bell had previously refused to make payments to a Jersey 
bank account he had nominated, despite Jersey being a UK territory and despite the 
fact that his UK state pension was being paid into that account. He considers that this 
history led to the problems in 2021.
AJ Bell was not obliged to send the first cheque by DHL and, in any case, its delivery 
to the home address country happened within reasonable time. It should not have 
promised to send the cheque by DHL, but that did not make a difference in the case.
In response, Mr P said it took a further 19 days after delivery to the country before 
the cheque was received in his home-town; the DHL aspect makes a difference in 
the case because such courier service would have ensured the cheque arrived, 
directly to his home, within four days; and it is noteworthy that he offered to pay for 
the DHL service. 
Irrespective of the alteration on the first cheque, it would have been rejected anyway 
because it used the British dating format, and Mr P has confirmed that it was rejected 
because of the alteration and the dating format. It was not unreasonable for AJ Bell 
to have used the British dating format on the cheque, and upon being told about the 
problem it issued the second cheque within reasonable time.
In response, Mr P said the alteration on the first cheque cannot be disputed; it can be 
seen in the copy of the first cheque that has been submitted as evidence; this was 
the main reason the cheque was rejected and the dating format was more of an 
advisory matter (for AJ Bell to be mindful of in issuing the second cheque).AJ Bells comment about the first cheque being cashed resulted from it being told by 
its bank that the cheque had been cashed. Whilst this would have been frustrating to 
Mr P, because he knew he had not cashed it, AJ Bells action upon information from 
its bank and in verifying whether (or not) the cheque had been cashed, before issuing 
a substitute, was not unreasonable. It investigated this promptly, established the 
cheque had not been cashed and apologised to him for its earlier comment.
In response, Mr P said he had already informed AJ Bell that the cheque could not be 
cashed, yet it proceeded to say the opposite; and any issue of misinformation 
between it and its bank led to consequences that he incurred. 
There is evidence that the second cheque was signed in accordance with AJ Bells 
mandate with BoS at the time, so it is not clear why BoS rejected it and there is 
nothing to say AJ Bell did something wrong in issuing it. Furthermore, it took 
reasonable actions to issue the third cheque and used different signatories for that, 
and the third cheque was accepted.
In response, Mr P said this aspect remains unexplained; that it is another issue 
between AJ Bell and BoS that has led to consequences that he incurred; and that AJ 
Bell holds ultimate responsibility in the entire matter.
AJ Bell should not have promised to send the first cheque by DHL only to send it by 
ordinary post, and there was also the issue about the alternation in that cheque, but 
there is no evidence that it committed further errors. It acted quickly to address the 
problems that arose, and in this context its offer of £100 is reasonable.
In response, Mr P repeated the hardship he (and his family and wider dependants) 
faced due to being deprived of the funds in the cheque for so long, especially over 
the 2021 Christmas period; he does not consider that the offer covers the hardship 
and distress that was caused, or AJ Bells ultimate responsibility in the matter or the 
costs and charges he incurred in chasing progress in the matter (and the bank 
charge for rejection of the second cheque); he also did not consider that AJ Bell 
acted quickly in response to the problems.
The investigator was not persuaded to change his mind and the matter was referred to an 
Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I too have not been persuaded to uphold Mr Ps pursuit for higher 
compensation from AJ Bell. Overall and on balance, I do not consider that there are grounds 
for such compensation and I take the view that the offer of £100 that has been made to him 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his case  and in the context of what AJ Bell 
can fairly be held responsible for.
I understand why Mr P says AJ Bell retains ultimate responsibility in the matter. AJ Bell was 
the firm he had a relationship with and it was the firm responsible for remitting to him, safely 
and efficiently, the SIPPs closure payment. From this perspective, his argument that AJ Bell 
holds overall responsibility in the matter is unsurprising. 
However, such responsibility will be fairly determined if, with regards to the payments 
journey between August 2021 and February 2022, there is evidence of wrongdoings by AJ 
Bell that caused a delay(s), and/or evidence of it having responsibility for actions and/or 
wrongdoings by third parties in the process, and/or evidence of it not managing progress of the matter (including attention to the problems that arose) as it ought reasonably to have 
done. A determination on grounds other than these would probably be arbitrary and unfair. 
As I explain below, on balance, I do not consider that available evidence establishes any of 
these.
If, as it appears, AJ Bell was not prepared to send the first cheque by DHL  or by any 
means other than ordinary/Royal Mail post  it should not have given Mr P the impression 
that it was prepared to do so, and it should not have promised him that it would do so. This 
unfairly raised his expectation at the outset and it was wrong to do that. However, its notice 
to him on 15 September serves as a mitigating factor. That notice meant that around a 
fortnight after he was misled (on 31 August) to expect the cheque by DHL he was told the 
cheque had actually been sent by ordinary mail. As such, his expectation was corrected at 
this point and, thereafter, he knew what to anticipate in terms of delivery. It was also helpful 
for him to have been told that the cheque had been sent on 3 September. That too would 
have helped to inform his expectation on delivery.
After the contact on 31 August, the first cheque was sent on 3 September, so there was no 
undue delay in this respect. 
As the investigator said, AJ Bell was not obliged to send it by DHL. I have not seen evidence 
of such an obligation, or evidence that it ought reasonably to have transferred the payment 
to Mr Ps bank account abroad or sent the cheque to his relatives UK address. The terms for 
the SIPP allowed for payment only into a UK bank account and sending the cheque to an 
address that was not his home address would probably have raised legitimate safeguarding 
concerns. I am not persuaded to be drawn into the history that has been mentioned with 
regards to the notion of payments to Mr Ps Jersey account. That history appears to be set in 
or around 2018 and I do not consider it directly relevant to the events in 2021. There is 
evidence that around the time of the SIPP closure payment in 2021 both sides discussed 
how the payment would be remitted and went through options, ending with AJ Bells promise 
to do so by DHL. In this context, I do not consider the events of 2018 to be as relevant as  
Mr P appears to believe they are.
AJ Bells wrongdoing at the outset is therefore limited to its misinformation to Mr P about 
using the DHL service, which it mitigated and corrected around a fortnight thereafter. For the 
sake of my analysis, I should note that I also have not found it responsible for time taken 
during postage/transit of the cheque, it was not required to use any particular fast courier 
service and the time taken in postage/transit was a matter beyond its immediate control.
After sending the first cheque on 3 September, another wrongdoing by AJ Bell emerged. The 
alteration on the cheque discovered on 30 September partly led to its rejection. I am satisfied 
that it was responsible for the alteration. It drafted and issued the cheque, so the alteration 
would probably have happened as it did the former. I share the investigators view that it 
committed no wrongdoing in using the British dating format on the cheque. As a UK 
regulated firm and in the absence of prior notice to use a different dating format, it was not 
unreasonable for it to have done so. I also agree that evidence initially from Mr P was that 
the cheque was rejected because of the alteration and the dating format. Subsequent 
evidence from him has repeated that no bank in the relevant country would find a cheque 
with the British dating format acceptable. I note this evidence because, more recently, he 
appears to have argued that the alteration was the only or main reason the first cheque was 
rejected. 
In this context, whilst AJ Bell was responsible for the alteration, I do not consider it was 
responsible for the rejection of the first cheque. Without the alteration the cheque would 
probably have been rejected because of the dating format. I do not accept that AJ Bell could 
reasonably have been expected to foresee that without prior notice to do so. Overall, and mainly for this reason, I do not find it responsible for the rejection of the first cheque. The 
rejection was unfortunate, it certainly impacted upon Mr P (and his plans for his funds) and 
AJ Bell ought to have known better than to issue an altered cheque. However, in the 
absence of that error the cheque would probably have still been rejected and AJ Bell would 
not have been responsible for that.
It took AJ Bell around two and a half weeks to address the problem caused by the first 
cheques rejection. At first sight, it could be said that it should have done so in less time. 
However, bearing in mind the complication that arose with regards to whether (or not) the 
first cheque had been cashed  which appears to have been investigated between 4 and 9 
October  I do not consider that AJ Bells action here was unduly delayed. The complication 
does not appear to have been its fault, it was wrongly told by its bank that the cheque had 
been cashed and it was prompted to investigate further when Mr P reminded it that the 
opposite was the case. It had to investigate the matter and that would have been dependent 
on input from its bank, so the investigation would not have been completely under its control. 
Overall, I do not find that it was responsible for a delay in addressing the problem with the 
first cheque and in issuing the second cheque.
I also do not find that it committed any wrongdoing with regards to the second cheque being 
declined by BoS, after being presented by Mr Ps bank. For this reason, I do not accept that 
it should be responsible for any associated charge applied by Mr Ps bank. I have seen 
evidence of the cheque and evidence of those within AJ Bells BoS mandate document at 
the time who were permitted to undersign it. The signatures on the cheque were from 
officials approved and listed within the relevant section of the mandate document, so the 
notion that the cheque was in breach in this respect is not supported by evidence. No other 
reason was given for rejection of the second cheque. On this basis, there is no evidence that 
AJ Bell did something wrong with the second cheque that led to its rejection. The fact that 
different officials were used to undersign the third cheque, which cleared, does not 
automatically mean the earlier rejection was correct  or that AJ Bell was responsible for it.
AJ Bell looked into this problem between 23 November and 3 December. On the latter date it 
confirmed the third cheque will be issued. In the circumstances, this was not unduly delayed 
action. Again, it would have been dependent on input and an explanation from BoS  which 
appears to have been awaited but not received  so this investigation was also not 
completely under AJ Bells control. 
The third cheque was safely received, submitted and cleared. Unfortunately, it took quite a 
while to clear, but that was a matter for Mr Ps bank, and one beyond AJ Bells responsibility.
I acknowledge and understand the impact of the delayed remittance (upon him, his family 
and his wider dependents) that Mr P has described. However, other than the direct effect of 
the misinformation he received from AJ Bell at the outset (that is, his misled expectation 
between 31 August and 15 September) and its error in the first cheques alteration (the 
absence of which would probably not have made a difference to the cheques rejection), I 
have not found it responsible for the overall remittance delay in any meaningful way. My 
reasons are as I have set out above and my findings lead to the conclusion the £100 offer it 
made to Mr P is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. It essentially and mainly 
addresses the impact of the initial misrepresented DHL promise over the two weeks in which 
the promise misled Mr P. In this context, the offer is reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman