DRN-3789657
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Topaz Finance Limited trading as Heliodor Mortgages has 
delayed and then unfairly declined their request to extend the term of their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S have an interest only mortgage with Heliodor. The term of the mortgage is due 
to end in February 2023. Mr and Mrs S said their original plan to repay the mortgage would 
not be viable when the term ended. They decided to sell their home instead  but they 
needed some time to carry out work on the property.
In April 2022, Mr S spoke to Heliodor to ask for a 12 month term extension, followed by a 
written request in May 2022. 
Mr and Mrs S said that Heliodor delayed considering their request  and then unfairly 
declined it.
The investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs S did not accept what the investigator said. They made a number of points, 
including:
The investigator had not applied our published approach to these types of complaints.
The fact that they agreed to repay the mortgage ta the end of term and there is no 
obligation for Heliodor to agree an extension was not relevant. 
What they were asking for is that, in changed circumstances, Heliodor agree a short 
extension to the term of the mortgage. 
If there was an obligation to extend the term they would not have had to make this 
request. 
If the contractual term was decisive then no one could make a complaint about a lenders 
decision to decline such a request  and that is clearly not the case.
It is only partly true that there was no confirmation of when the work on the property 
would start or end. But that is irrelevant. The whole point is that theyve asked for a 12 
month extension  not an extension until the work is complete. If the work is not 
complete, then they wont ask for another extension.
Heliodor did not ask for evidence of when the work would start and finish when it asked 
them to provide evidence. 
There is no evidence to support the finding that the evidence they gave to Heliodor had 
not been ignored.
The fact that Heliodor has said it is willing to consider the options to assist Mr and Mrs S 
once the term ends is no concession at all. It might not consider their options or give 
them more time. They cant be expected to make plans under such an approach. And it 
is not clear why, if Heliodor can consider matters at the end of term it cant do so now  
especially as Heliodor has a policy of not grating extensions  what will change at the 
end of term?
Heliodor has not listened to a reasonable request. The extension was requested due to a 
combination of circumstances that could not have been envisaged 12 months ago and 
which they sought to deal with as soon as they became apparent. The cost of selling 
their home without the work being carried out is out of all proportion to extending the 
term of a 20 year mortgage by 12 months  and where that mortgage has never had 
arrears or any other problems.
Heliodor is required to listen to their reasonable request for an extension and to respond 
fairly and constructively. There is no evidence to suggest it has done any of that  and 
certainly not constructively.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S entered into a contract to repay the mortgage in full by February 2023. That is 
relevant and it is an important point. It is what Mr and Mrs S agreed to when they took out 
the mortgage. The lender is entitled  as a starting point  to look for the mortgage to be 
repaid as agreed at the end of term.  
Of course, borrowers circumstance can change. And in the past lenders didnt always carry 
out checks into how the mortgage would be repaid at the end of term. So the relevant rules 
allow lenders to make changes to mortgages (including extending the term) where it is in a 
borrowers best interests.
In its letter of 26 May 2022, Heliodor set out what it needed to consider Mr and Mrs Ss 
request for a term extension. I consider the information it asked for was reasonable and in 
line with what I would expect a mortgage lender to request in these circumstances. 
Heliodor asked Mr and Mr S for as much supporting evidence as possible. While it may not 
have asked specifically for evidence of quotes and timescales, if Mr and Mrs S had that 
information, there was reasonable expectation they would have given it to Heliodor.
Mr and Mrs S provided information about why the planned repayment vehicle was not going 
ahead, a surveyors report, an explanation that the work on the roof had been commissioned 
in 2020 and that lead times for the work they needed was around two years and getting 
longer. They also said that without the work being carried out, the house would have to be 
marketed at a substantial discount from its true market value and without any great hope of 
making a sale.
The reply did not provide any concrete timescales for any of the work to be completed or the 
cost of the work. Nor did it set out whether Mr and Mrs S had sought financial advice or 
considered any other options to repay the mortgage on time.
Heliodor has provided its internal records that show that it considered Mr and Mrs Ss 
request and its reasons for declining it. It was concerned about the lack of quotes for the 
work to be completed and as there were no firm timescales for when the work will start or 
how long it would take to complete. These are valid concerns for a lender to have. I can see 
how it could be concerned that if it agreed an extension in those circumstances, it might find 
the same (or worse) situation at the end of any extended term. And a term extension is not 
cost or risk free for a lender.
While Mr and Mrs S mighty not consider it important whether the work is completed within 
any extension or not, it is a valid consideration for a mortgage lender where it is being asked 
to consider a term extension in these circumstances.
Overall, I consider that Heliodor did fairly consider Mr and Mrs Ss request. But it did not 
consider that it had enough information to decide that a term extension was in Mr and Mrs 
Ss best interests. I dont consider the decision it made was unfair or unreasonable. Id note that giving a consumer more time so that they can achieve a better sale price (where the 
current value is sufficient to repay the mortgage) is not necessarily part of any best interests 
consideration  although it might be if the property was genuinely unsaleable without work 
being carried out. 
I dont consider it is fair to say that Mr and Mrs S should wait until the term of their mortgage 
has ended before exploring the options available to them. I cant see any reasons why it 
could not consider any proposals that Mr and Mrs S make now. But it is a two-way street. 
Heliodor is entitled to ask for evidence to consider whether any change to the mortgage is in 
Mr and Mrs Ss best interests. 
The service from Heliodor has been poor. But I think its offer of £100 is fair to reflect any 
distress and inconvenience that caused to Mr and Mrs S.
My final decision
My final decision is that Topaz Finance Limited trading as Heliodor Mortgages should pay Mr 
and Mrs S £100, if it has not done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman