DRN-1665079
 
complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that they were mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) when 
they took out a loan with Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds).
background
Mr and Mrs P took out a secured loan with Lloyds in 1991. At the same time they were sold 
a PPI policy. Its not clear whether it would have covered Mr or Mrs P, or both of them, but it 
wouldve covered the repayments on the loan for up to 12 months at a time if the insured 
wasnt able to work due to accident, sickness or redundancy.
Mr and Mrs P say they didnt know the PPI had been added. They say they didnt want or 
need the cover.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs P 
disagree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
The loan and PPI were sold nearly 30 years ago, so its not surprising that neither party has 
retained any documents from the time. Lloyds says the PPI would have been discussed with 
Mr and Mrs P and that it was optional. Mr and Mrs P say they werent aware that the PPI 
was added and that it wasnt discussed with them. I cant safely rely solely on Mr and Mrs 
Ps recollections from so long ago and without evidence to the contrary I cant safely say that 
the PPI was added without their knowledge or consent.
Lloyds says it likely gave Mr and Mrs P a personal recommendation to buy the PPI. So it had 
an obligation to take reasonable steps to make sure it was right for them. Looking at Mr and 
Mrs Ps circumstances at the time I think it was suitable for them. I say this because:
 
Mr and Mrs P were eligible for the cover and wouldnt have been affected by any 
terms which mightve made it more difficult for them to make a successful claim  
such as those related to existing medical conditions or elf-employment;
Mr and Mrs P both had contractual sick pay. But the policy wouldve paid out in 
addition to this and potentially for longer than their full sick pay would have lasted. It 
also wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy pay Mr and Mrs P received. So I think the policy provided a useful additional benefit, especially as the loan was 
secured on their home.
Mr and Mrs P say they could have relied on family to help them out if needed. But 
this sort of help cant be guaranteed and the policy would have meant they didnt 
need to rely on others. 
The premiums were paid monthly and could have been cancelled at any time without 
a financial penalty.
 
Lloyds also had to make sure it gave Mr and Mrs P enough information about the policy so 
they could make an informed decision about buying it. I cant know what information was 
given to Mr and Mrs P at the time, but as the policy seems to have been suitable for them I 
dont think theyd have made a different choice about the policy even if they understood all 
the finer detail about it. I think as a minimum they would have understood the policy was 
designed to pay their repayments if the insured person wasnt able to work.
So, on balance, I dont think Mr and Mrs P lost out as a result of anything Lloyds mightve 
done wrong. 
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint so it follows that Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt have 
to pay any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman