DRN-2294958
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy about the way his car insurance renewal premium has been calculated by 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral).
What happened
Mr Rs car was insured as part of a multi-car policy with Admiral.  His car was involved in a 
road traffic accident in December 2017.  The claim remained open until July 2020 when it 
was settled by Admiral on a 50/50 liability basis.  Admiral accept that there were mistakes 
and delays made in the handling of this claim. These were the subject of separate 
complaints to this service.   
Mr R complains that when he came to renew his car insurance in March 2018 his renewal 
premium had increased substantially.  He says that his premium in 2017 was approximately 
£1,800.  He says that on renewal in 2018 his yearly premium increased by around £2,000.  
He believes that this was due to the claim following the accident in December 2017 still 
being open.  Mr R says that it remained open for over two years due to mistakes made by 
Admiral. Mr R says that this has unfairly impacted on the way the renewal premium was 
calculated for the year.  He complained to Admiral asking for the difference in price to be 
refunded to him.
Mr R also says that the increased premium he paid resulted in him not being able to afford 
his car finance and he subsequently had to sell his car.
Admiral did not uphold his complaint. They say that any incidents notified to them under the 
terms of the policy will affect the renewal premium for up to three years. They say that they 
were notified by Mr R of four incidents during the March 2017 policy.  Of these two were 
recorded as non-fault and two were recorded as fault, including the accident in December 
2017.  They were also notified of two speeding offences. They say that all these incidents 
regardless of fault, whether they are open or closed, or whether reported for notification only, 
will have a significant impact on the renewal premium.
Admiral say that whether a claim is open or closed has no bearing on the calculation of the 
renewal premium.  They accept, however, that a premium could be affected if a no claims 
bonus (NCB) is reinstated following the finalisation of a case which changes a fault claim to 
a no-fault claim. Admiral did not consider their renewal calculations incorrect and Mr R 
brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint.  He did not think that Admiral had acted 
unfairly in using the information they had to calculate the insurance premium.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue is whether Admirals delay in dealing with Mr Rs claim following the December 
2017 accident resulted in an unfair increase in his renewal premium. It is not usual for this 
service to make a judgement about the way an insurer calculates risk or the premium it 
charges to cover a certain risk.  That is a decision for each insurer.  However, we can look to 
see if a policy holder has been treated fairly, or whether they have been treated differently to 
the way other policy holders would be treated in the same circumstances.  
It has been accepted by Admiral that there were delays and mistakes with the way they dealt 
with the claim arising out of the accident in December 2017.  Mr Rs complaint to this service 
about this has already been resolved.  However, arising out of that is whether the claim 
being open for over 2 years due to Admirals mistakes had an impact on Mr Rs renewal 
premium.
Its clear that Mr Rs renewal premium increased substantially in March 2018. When 
calculating premiums, insurers take into consideration a very large number of risk rating 
factors. In other words, they assess the level of risk each policyholder poses and the 
likelihood of them making a claim in the future by looking at many different factors. Admiral 
considers all claims and incidents even if the driver isnt to blame. 
In Mr Rs case, when Admiral calculated the renewal premium they took into account the 
four incidents and the two motoring offences reported during the previous years policy. The 
December 2017 accident claim was still open when the policy was considered for renewal in 
March 2018.  I havent seen anything that makes me think that Admiral has taken into 
consideration any incidents that Mr R wasnt involved in.
Its usual insurance industry practice for insurers to treat open claims as fault claims for the 
purposes of premium calculations. Our expectation is that in the event the claim is closed as 
non-fault, the insurer will retrospectively recalculate past premiums to see if a refund is due.  
In Mr Rs case, Admiral settled the claim on a split liability basis and therefore recorded it as 
a fault claim when finalised.  There would therefore have been no change in the 
classification of the claim from when the claim was open to when it closed. So it seems any 
delay to the resolution of the claim didnt cause Mr R to unfairly pay more for his cover.
Open claims that are treated as fault claims can affect the NCB until the claim is closed.  I 
am aware that as a result of Admiral having accepted mistakes in the way the claim was 
handled, they have reinstated Mr Rs NCB to the same level it was before the December 
2017 accident.  However, from evidence I have seen, the other incidents reported to Admiral 
during the policy would have meant that the re-instatement of the NCB for the December 
2017 accident had no effect on the premium calculation.  The NCB was reduced to zero in 
any event due to the other incidents.
Admiral has provided me with confidential business sensitive information to explain how Mr 
Rs price increase was calculated.  I can't share that information, but Ive checked it 
carefully.  I am satisfied that the premium was calculated in according to Admirals rating 
policy and that Admiral treated Mr R in the same way it would treat other policy holders in 
similar circumstances.  I could see no evidence that the December 2017 claim being open 
as such had any bearing on the premium.  
I know that Mr R will be disappointed with my decision, but I cant see that Admiral have 
made an error in calculating the premium or that Mr R has been treated unfairly.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman