DRN-4372079
The complaint
Mr L complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) wont refund payments that he says he 
didnt authorise.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Mr L says that a number of unauthorised transactions were 
made from his Wise account after his mobile phone was stolen at a nightclub on 28 August 
2022:
Date Merchant Payment method Amount
29/08/2022 Apple Debit card £2,098 
29/08/2022 Apple Debit card £900 
29/08/2022 Apple Debit card £327 
29/08/2022 Apple Debit card £1,372.95 
29/08/2022 Choice Stratford Debit card £1,135 
Total £5,832.95
Mr L disputed the transactions with Wise when he became aware of them and said that 
whoever had stolen his phone must have accessed his account, where he had his 
passwords saved on his phone. Wise refused to refund the payments, however, as it said 
there was no evidence to suggest they had been made by a third party.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She didnt think Wise had provided enough evidence 
to show that Mr L had made or consented to the transactions, so she said it should refund 
the payments. Wise disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
to uphold it. Ill explain why.
The disputed transactions complained about took place in August 2022, so of particular 
relevance to my decision are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs)  which apply 
to transactions like the one made from Mr Ls account.
The PSRs say that a payment transaction is authorised by the payer where they have given 
their consent to the execution to the payment transaction. Such consent must be given in the 
form and in accordance with the procedure agreed between the payer and the payment 
service provider.
Unless the payment service provider can show consent has been given, it has no authority 
to make a payment or debit the customers account. Where a payment service user denies 
having authorised a payment transaction, it is for the payment service provider to prove that 
the transactions in question were authorised by the customer.
Having considered the facts before me, Im not persuaded theres enough evidence to 
demonstrate that it was Mr L who authorised the disputed transactions, and Im satisfied 
there is a plausible explanation for how they came to be made by an unauthorised third 
party.
Mr L has shown that he has reported his phone as stolen on 28 August 2022 both to the 
police and his mobile phone provider, so Im satisfied it was likely stolen from him. Mr L 
thinks that whoever stole his phone was able to access his device with his passcode, which 
he thinks the thief may have seen him type into his phone while he still had it, which would 
explain how they were able to gain access to his device. Mr L says he kept his passwords 
stored in the notes section of his phone, which would also explain how the thief would have 
been able to login to his Wise account. And given the thief was in possession of Mr Ls 
mobile phone, it meant they were able to register his card with Apple pay and intercept any 
one-time passcodes required. 
Wise initially said that a selfie was provided of Mr L holding his ID at the time the payments 
were made, so it considers that it was him who authorised them. However, Mr L has said 
that he was asked to provide a selfie when he contacted Wise to change the number on his 
account after he had discovered the transactions on 29 August 2022. And Wise hasnt been 
able to confirm the date or source of the picture it has and has accepted its possible that the 
photo was provided by Mr L on 29 August 2022. As Wise has not been able to provide 
evidence to show when the picture was provided, I dont consider theres enough to 
conclude, on balance, that it was provided at the time the payments were made. 
Wise also says that, to the best of its knowledge, a biometric authentication was passed in 
order to view Mr Ls account information from inside the Wise app using an IOS device at 
02:33 on 29 August 2023  which was after Mr L said his phone had been stolen. However, 
Wise didnt respond to requests for further evidence made by this service asking it to show 
which device the biometric authentication was made from, and whether it was a recognised 
device that Mr L had used before (i.e. the phone that was stolen). I note that different IP 
addresses are shown accessing the account after it was reported stolen, for example. And 
given Wise hasnt responded to my requests for further evidence and clarification on this 
point, I dont consider theres enough to show that Mr L still had access to his phone and 
passed biometric authentication on his device after he said it was stolen. 
As Ive outlined above, it is for the payment service provider to provide evidence proving how 
a transaction was authorised. In this instance, Im not persuaded Wise has been able to 
demonstrate that it was more likely than not to have been Mr L who authorised the 
payments. Mr L has also provided a consistent and plausible explanation for how the 
payments were made without him being involved. 
The payment services directive itself (which the PSRs 2017 implement) states that in the 
absence ofconsent, a payment transaction shall be considered to be unauthorised. For 
the reasons Ive given above, I dont consider that Mr L provided his consent for these 
payments to be made from his account, Im satisfied they are therefore to be considered as unauthorised for the purposes of the PSRs 2017. This means that Wise is liable to refund 
the payments, unless it can show that Mr L acted with intent or gross negligence with 
regards to keeping his security credentials safe. 
Did Mr L act with intent or gross negligence  particularly taking into account the terms and 
conditions of his relationship with Wise and the obligations set out in the PSRs 2017?
I dont think Wise has suggested that Mr L failed to comply with his obligations under 
Regulation 72 of the PSRs with intent, and neither have I seen any evidence that would 
suggest this either. So, I do not intend to explore this point any further.
However, I have considered whether the actions Mr L took fell so far below the standard of a 
reasonable person that he could be said to have failed with gross negligence to take all 
reasonable steps to keep his security information safe or to comply with the terms and 
conditions of his account.
Gross negligence is not an abstract concept. Its important to take into account all the 
circumstances when considering whether an individuals actions amount to gross 
negligence. In this instance, I appreciate that Mr L had stored his security credentials on his 
device, which customers are advised not to do by their banks. However, while this may have 
been careless, I dont consider it to have been grossly negligent. Mr L has confirmed that 
there was nothing linking the passwords saved on his phone specifically to his Wise account 
or online banking. And it would typically only be able to be accessed by him because his 
device was protected by an access code and facial recognition. So, Im not persuaded his 
actions amount to a significant degree of carelessness in these circumstances so as to 
amount to gross negligence. Im therefore satisfied that Wise should refund the disputed 
transactions. 
I note that Wise has also raised concerns about the £6,000 that was used to fund the 
unauthorised purchases, which was transferred in from Mr Ls account with another bank 
(S). Wise has suggested that liability should be divided between it and S. First, I can see 
that Mr L did dispute the £6,000 transfer with S, and it declined his claim and has not 
refunded this amount, so theres no risk of Mr L being compensated twice. Secondly, Mr L 
has not brought a complaint about S to this service. It is not party to this complaint, so I 
cannot make any finding about its potential liability and whether this should be shared with 
Wise. 
Whilst the dispute resolution rules (DISP) give me the power (but do not compel me) to 
require a financial business to pay a proportion of an award in circumstances where a 
consumer has made complaints against two financial businesses about connected 
circumstances, Mr L has not referred a complaint about his other bank, and DISP does not 
empower me to instruct Mr L to make or refer a complaint to me about another business.     
I am required to consider the complaint in front of me. I have found that Wise has not acted 
fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of this case. And whilst it is a possibility that Mr L 
may have cause to complain against S, I am not persuaded it would be fair to reduce the 
award solely for that reason. Mr L is entitled to choose to complain only about Wise, and I 
am satisfied that it ought to have refunded the unauthorised transactions.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Wise Payments Limited to:
Refund the disputed transactions listed in the payment table above, totalling 
£5,832.95.Pay 8% simple interest per annum on this amount from the date of loss until the date 
of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman