DRN-4102151
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy that Revolut Ltd has decided not to refund him after he was the victim of an 
authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
Mr S says he found a loan provider via a social media platform. He entered into discussions 
with this individual who promised him a £20,000 loan if he completed some paperwork and 
paid a fee.
Mr S made an initial payment of £375 thinking it was required for insurance purposes before 
the loan could be paid. He didnt receive the loan funds despite remaining in contact with the 
scammers and he reported the payment as being a scam with Revolut. 
Revolut made enquiries with Mr S but when he didnt provide all the information it asked for, 
Revolut didnt continue with its investigation into the payment. 
Mr S continued to communicate with the scammer and expressed his concerns that he was 
being scammed. But he was eventually convinced to pay a further £300 thinking his would 
secure the loan. When the loan funds werent paid into his account Mr S raised the second 
payment with Revolut and provided all the details enabling it to conduct an investigation into 
the scam. 
During his conversations with Revolut, Mr S explained how the scam was impacting his well-
being and mental health.
Revolut contacted the beneficiary bank, in response it was told the money had debited he 
account shortly after it had been credited, and before Mr S raised either dispute with 
Revolut. Revolut was apologetic for the situation Mr S was in, and had taken into account his 
personal circumstances, but said it hadnt made any error, in following Mr Ss instructions 
wheb he made these payments, and it wouldnt be refunding him.
Mr S was unhappy with the response he received from Revolut and brought his complaint to 
our service. 
One of our investigators looked into things. She didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. She didnt 
think the payments made as part of the scam were particularly unusual. There was no 
interaction with Revolut at the time the payments were made so it didnt miss out on an 
opportunity to identify the payments as fraudulent at the time. Although Mr S initially raised a 
scam complaint after the first payment, he then became unresponsive to Revoluts enquiries, 
so it couldnt investigate matters further. And Mr S was then not in touch again until after he 
made the second payment. Revolut wasnt aware, prior to the scam, that Mr S was 
potentially vulnerable. And although Revolut contacted the receiving bank no funds could be 
recovered.
Mr S wanted this complaint to be reviewed further. He said he didnt think Revolut did 
enough to help him recover his money and that it hadnt taken responsibility for its actions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint. I know this will 
come as disappointment to him and I sympathise with the situation he is in. Hes been the 
cruel victim of a scam which has left him out of pocket and distressed by the whole situation. 
But my role here is to consider if Revolut is at fault. If it ought to have prevented the scam 
when the payments were made or if it could have done more to recover the funds after it was 
aware Mr S had been scammed. And I havent found that Revolut is liable to refund Mr S for 
these reasons. Ill explain why below. 
Ultimately it is the scammers that have caused Mr S these losses and the distress alongside 
that. As part of my own further enquiries with Revolut, I asked if it would consider refunding 
Mr S in light of his current circumstances as gesture of goodwill. But it declined to do so. 
Saying ,although it truly sympathised with Mr Ss vulnerable position its stance remained the 
same and that offering a goodwill gesture would be inappropriate without a formal 
investigation into the incident. 
Should Revolut have prevented the scam in the first instance?
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank, payment service provider or 
electronic money institution is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a 
customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
customers account. And I have taken that into account when looking into what is fair and 
reasonable in this case.
The payments from Mr Ss account were authorised by him. Whilst I appreciate, he was
tricked into making the payments, for the purposes of the Payment Service Regulations
(PSRs) 2017, they were still authorised by Mr S. And Ive explained above, Revolut had
an obligation to follow Ms Ss payment instructions.
However, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for Revolut, as an
electronic money institute (EMI) to take additional steps or make additional checks before
processing a payment in order to help protect its customers from the possibility of financial
harm from fraud. An example of this would be payments which are sufficiently unusual or
uncharacteristic when compared with the usual use of the account. In such circumstances,
Id expect Revolut, to intervene and ask some questions about the intended transaction
before processing it.
Ive considered whether there was anything about the circumstances surrounding the
payments that could have put Revolut on notice that they were being made as part of a
scam. And I dont think there was.
- Although this wasnt a new account it didnt have a long or detailed account history. 
But what I can tell is that Mr S made a £1,000 payment, to a new payee, in the month 
before the two smaller scam payments. 
- The scam related payments, whilst not insignificant arent what I would consider as 
unusually high in value.- The payments are spread out and occur 20 days apart. And although Mr S initially 
contacted Revolut to say the first payment had been part of a scam he didnt follow 
this up or provide the information Revolut asked for. So, when the second payment 
was made 20 days later, given its value, I dont think Revolut had any reason to treat 
it as suspicious or needed to intervene. 
- The payments were made to another UK based account and dont appear to be 
unusual in any other way.
In conclusion, I agree with the investigator. I dont think the transactions and account activity
were so unusual that Revolut should have been concerned Mr S was at risk of financial
harm. So, I dont think Revolut made an error by not intervening when Mr S made these
payments.
The response from the receiving bank says the money was moved within minutes of it being
received into the beneficiary account. So, Im satisfied that Revolut couldnt have prevented
Mr Ss losses after he reported the scam either.
Overall, I cant say that Revolut is at fault here. So, Im not recommending that it refund 
Mr Ss losses.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman