DRN-1187042
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy with the way Barclays Bank UK PLC has handled her credit card account 
after she disputed some transactions. 
Background
Miss H contacted Barclays on 13 August 2018 to report transactions on her account from 
6 August through to 10 August 2018, which she says she didnt make. Miss H has told us at 
the time she was abroad staying in a hotel but noticed transactions had been made on her 
credit card at a different hotel to the one she was staying at. She also noticed some other 
payments being made elsewhere.
Miss H confirmed to Barclays she last used the card on 13 August 2018 at a supermarket for 
a payment of around £13.82.  
Transactions on Credit Card Ending 9007 
Our investigator sent Miss H the transactions made on her credit card from 6 August 2018 to 
confirm those which were in dispute. I have included the list of transactions below for ease of 
reference. 
Date Merchant Amount 
6 August 2018 Ode Begane Grond Amsterdam £11.05
7 August 2018 Doubletree by Hilton £12.79
7 August 2018 Doubletree by Hilton £7.39
8 August 2018 US Customs ESTA £11.22
9 August 2018 Koffie Academie Amsterdam £20.25
10 August 2018 Seker Supermarkten £25.47
In her response, Miss H didnt raise any other additional transactions as being in dispute.
Multiple Replacement Cards
Barclays investigated the matter and refunded all six transactions Miss H had disputed on 
13 August 2018. At this time, Miss H told the advisor she didnt want a replacement card 
sent to the address as she was travelling and no longer living there. 
Miss Hs credit card remained open, but Barclays blocked and cancelled Miss Hs physical 
credit card ending in 9007 but in error didnt stop a new card from being sent out in the post. This new replacement card was issued ending in 4007 on 16 August 2018. 
Following further contact from Miss H on 17 August 2018, Barclays realised its error. The 
card issued ending in 4007 was then blocked and cancelled and replaced by card number 
ending in 8005 to ensure that Miss Hs account remained open, but no physical card has 
been issued for this. 
While Barclays accept card ending in 4007 was issued in error, it has said there were no 
further transactions applied to the account. Barclays confirmed the last transaction on the 
account was on 13 August 2018 which Miss H has said was made by her at a supermarket.
Multiple charges/payments
Due to no payments being made to the credit card account since 13 August 2018, a default 
notice was issued by Barclays on 2 May 2019, which was then registered on 27 June 2019. 
As Miss H remained unhappy with what Barclays did, she asked us to investigate. Miss H 
says her credit card has been printed multiple times and was in use by someone else, who 
has exceeded her credit limit. Shes also raised concerns about three different payments 
coming from her current account to her credit card, which she feels are fraudulent. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied Barclays had 
refunded all of the disputed transactions raised by Miss H. She also explained the three 
different card numbers that could be seen within the banking app was due to the cards being 
cancelled and new numbers reallocated to the account. She concluded shed seen no 
evidence of Miss Hs card being cloned. 
In relation to Miss Hs concerns about three different payments coming from her current 
account to her credit card, our investigator said these were multiple payments Miss H made 
to her credit card account and these transactions were clear on Miss Hs bank statement. 
She added the charges that were applied throughout the period were interest charges,
non-sterling transaction charges, charges where cash withdrawals had been made and then 
charges as a result of non-payment to the account. And that none of these charges had 
been applied incorrectly. 
Our investigator also referred to the account status now. She thought the default had been 
applied fairly.  
She acknowledged what Miss H has told us about her change in personal circumstances but 
explained Barclays say Miss H contacted them about this in July 2019. At this point, 
Barclays stopped any interest and charges. Our investigator felt Barclays had acted 
reasonably in this matter. This is because she could see Barclays had tried to contact 
Miss H by phone and letter to request payment, prior to her contact about her change in 
circumstances in July 2019, but there had been no payment received or explanation as to 
why it couldn't be made.  
Miss H disagreed with our investigator and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
 
 
 My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much of the same reasons. There are a number of 
elements to this complaint, and so I will address each in turn. 
Disputed transactions
Once Miss H reported these transactions to Barclays, they made the decision to refund all 
six of the disputed payments. As such Miss H has not suffered any loss. 
Multiple cards  
It is not in dispute that an error was made when Barclays issued the replacement card 
ending 4007 - after Miss H had confirmed she didnt wish for one to be sent. 
Having reviewed Miss Hs credit card account statements I can see that no further 
transactions were made on the account since 13 August 2018, when Miss H last spent on 
the credit card at a supermarket. Had there been any further spending on the account after 
card ending 4007 was issued, this would have shown on the account statements. The error 
quickly became clear after Barclays spoke with Miss H on 17 August 2018 and action was 
taken to block and cancel card ending 4007. 
Im also satisfied the three different account numbers Miss H is able to see through the 
banking app relate to the original card being blocked and cancelled and the two subsequent 
card numbers that were allocated to the account. There is nothing to show someone else 
printed and used Miss Hs card or used these to exceed her credit limit, especially as the 
account wasnt used for any new spending since the cards ending 4007 and 8005 were 
created.  
So, Im not persuaded Barclays needs to do anything further in regard to this aspect, as 
Miss H hasnt lost out as a result of the error. 
Multiple charges/payments
Having reviewed Miss Hs current account and credit card statements, I can see her credit 
card was paid between January and May 2017 by bank transfer. So, during this time Miss H 
was making payments towards the credit card manually - making transfers towards the 
account at any time she chose to. When making bank transfer payments to an account, the 
payee can choose to make as many payments as theyd like during a given month and the 
amount they wish to pay. For example, from the current account statements, in February 
2017 three different bank transfer payments for different amounts were made. 
Then between July 2017 and May 2018, the payment method to the credit card was 
changed to direct debit. At this time one payment each month was paid towards the account 
and would have been automatically taken by the direct debit set up. The direct debit amount 
varied each month due to the minimum payment needing to be paid  which would have 
varied depending on the balance on the account each month. 
Miss H then reverted to making payments to the credit card account by bank transfer 
between June and August 2018. Again, I have seen a month where multiple payments were 
made within a month period. The last payment to be made to the account was on 13 August 2018 for £46.51. I can see a 
direct debit payment was attempted on 26 November 2018 for £20.42 but this was returned 
unpaid. With Miss H cancelling the direct debit on 27 November 2018.  
So, when considering everything Ive seen and been told, Im unable to conclude Barclays 
has fraudulently debited multiple payments from Miss Hs current account towards her credit 
card account. Ive seen no reason to think these payments made by bank transfer were 
made by anyone other than Miss H. I say this because I can see each of the payments to the 
credit card account corresponds with the transactions Miss H made on her current account 
statements.  
The credit card statements Ive been given show that charges have been applied throughout 
the time Miss H has held her account with Barclays and these are, as our investigator 
explained in relation to interest charges, non-sterling charges, charges where cash 
withdrawals have been made and then charges due to non-payment and late payments to 
the account. Having read the terms and conditions, I dont think these fees have been 
applied in error and, Im satisfied the fees are in line with what the bank can charge for the 
type of transaction Miss H was making. 
Account status now
Miss Hs account was defaulted on 27 June 2019 and the account has been passed to a 
debt collection agency. 
Barclays have provided contact notes from the time Miss H was in communication about the 
disputed transactions. I accept Barclays had been told by Miss H that she was not staying at 
the address which it held for her  this was the reason she did not want a card re-issued to 
this address. But the notes from a conversation with Miss H in August 2018 says she will call 
back to get the card re-issued once she has a proper address and Ive not been given 
anything further to show Miss H contacted Barclays again to update her address. Im also 
mindful the address Barclays holds for Miss H is the same address shes given to this 
service. And from her contact with our investigator, Miss H didnt want us to change the 
address. 
Im afraid, given what Ive seen and been told, I cant say Barclays has acted unreasonably 
in the steps it took prior to and in registering a default notice on the account. This is because 
I can see Barclays attempted to contact Miss H at the address it held for her and by phone 
about the status of her account. And in the absence of any information to show Miss H got in 
touch with Barclays to update her address or speak about her account prior to July 2019, I 
cant say Barclays has unfairly applied the default.  
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont recommend Barclays do anything further. I 
know this will come as a disappointment to Miss H, but I hope she understands why Ive 
reached the decision I have. 
 
 
 
 
My final decision My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman