DRN-3272234
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited paid too much when 
it settled a third party claim against him. Hes also complained that it is seeking to recover 
the amount it paid on the claim from him.   
What happened
Mr E took out a policy with Watford via a comparison site through a broker, which started on 
30 March 2020. Mr E had an accident in June 2020 and made a claim for the damage to his 
car. He also left Watford to deal with claims against him by the other driver and their 
passenger (the third parties). Watford said that Mr E had failed to disclose modifications to 
his car when he took out his policy. They refused to deal with his claim for damage to his car 
and cancelled his policy with effect from 24 July 2020 by notifying him through his broker on 
17 July 2020. This meant theyd given him seven days-notice of cancellation in accordance 
with the policy terms. Watford then dealt with the claim for damage and uninsured losses 
from the two third parties involved in the accident and settled this at a cost of over £20,000 in 
total. Watford then wrote to Mr E demanding he reimburse this amount because it had 
cancelled his policy and rejected his claim. It referred to a clause in the policy, which it said 
meant it had a right of recovery against the policyholder in these circumstances. 
Mr E complained about three things. The first was that Watford had cancelled his policy and 
rejected his claim. Watford issued a final response letter on this issue with referral rights to 
our service. Mr E wanted us to consider this complaint, but he brought it to our service too 
late. He also complained that Watfords actions had left him with a debt to his broker, as a 
refund of premium wasnt provided when his policy was cancelled. And he was unhappy that 
the broker had appointed a debt collector to collect this. The broker issued a final response 
on this complaint, and weve considered it separately. 
The complaint I am considering in this decision is Mr Es dissatisfaction with what Watford 
paid on the third party claims and its recovery action against him. Watford issued a final 
response on this point well after their previous final response, so this is a complaint I can 
consider. More specifically, Mr E thinks Watford paid a lot more than they needed to in 
settlement of the third party claims. And he doesnt think its fair for Watford to recover its 
costs from him. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ws complaint. She said she was satisfied Watford 
had properly considered the third party claims and what it had paid was appropriate. But, 
she didnt think Watford was entitled to recover its costs from Mr E. She explained this was 
because at the time of the accident giving rise to the claim the policy was in force; and Mr E 
was insured by it to drive his car. This meant Watford were dealing with the third party claims 
as a result of Mr E being insured, as opposed to it being as a result of any liability it might 
have under the Road Traffic Act (RTA) or associated regulations. 
Watford doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. Its 
pointed out it was the RTA insurer at the time of Mr Es accident and this is why it has settled 
the third party claims. In view of this, it thinks it has the right to recover its costs from Mr E.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator on both of the things shes said. 
First of all, I agree that Watford fully and properly investigated the third party claims and 
considered what their representatives had claimed on their behalf very carefully. Bearing in 
mind the circumstances of the accident, I think it had no option other than to accept full 
liability on behalf of Mr E. And  based on my review of their investigation and consideration 
of the claims - I think what Watford paid to settle them and the costs involved were 
reasonable.
Secondly, I dont think Watford is entitled to recover its costs on the third party claims from 
Mr E. This is because I dont think it can rely on the policy term it has quoted or any other 
term in the policy to do this. 
Watford chose to cancel Mr Es policy after his accident and claim, as opposed to avoiding it 
(treating it as if it never existed) in accordance with the right it may have had to do so under 
the Consumer Insurance Act 2012. Had it avoided Mr Es policy, Watford may well have had 
a right of recovery against him, although in this situation the policy would  in effect  never 
have existed, so this right would not flow from any of the terms in it. It would just be a legal 
right due to their liability under the RTA. 
Because Watford didnt avoid Mr Es policy, it was in force at the time of his accident and 
Watford was insuring him for damage to his car and any liability he had for damages to third 
parties. The clause Watford thinks it can rely on to recover its costs from Mr E reads as 
follows:
3. Right of recovery
If under the laws of any country in which this insurance applies, We have to make payments 
which but for those laws would not be covered by this Policy, You must repay the amounts to 
Us. If any claims or other monies are paid to You by mistake for any reason, or a claim has 
been paid which We later find to be fraudulent, false or exaggerated, You must repay the 
amount paid by Us.
The reason I dont think Watford can rely on this term is that it has not had to make 
payments which but for the laws of any country would not be covered by Mr Es policy. The 
reason Watford was obliged to make payments to settle the third party claims is that it was 
insuring Mr E under his policy with it at the time of his accident. This is because it cancelled 
the policy a short time after the accident and claim, as opposed to avoiding it. Although, if 
this was the case, as Ive explained above, Watford wouldnt need to rely on this clause to 
recover its costs from Mr E. The situation in which this clause would probably give Watford 
the right of recovery against Mr E would be if he was driving outside the terms of his policy 
or if hed allowed someone else to drive his car who wasnt insured under the policy. 
And theres no other term in the policy that I think Watford is entitled to rely on to recover its 
costs from Mr W. 
Putting things right
As I dont think Watford is entitled to recover its costs on the third party claims from Mr E, it 
follows that I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for Watford to stop all 
recovery action against him and mark the recovery case as closed. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Es complaint and order 
Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to stop all recovery action against him for its 
costs on the third party claims it paid under his policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman