DRN-4091306
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd declined their claim for their 
lost engagement ring on their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had a home insurance policy that was underwritten by Accredited. They had 
added an engagement ring as a specified item at a value of £2,500. 
In December 2022 Mrs M lost the ring and made a claim, however Accredited declined it. It 
said as it was a specified item, it was subject to an endorsement in the policy that required it 
to be valued every three years. And as the last valuation had been in 2018, theyd failed to 
meet the endorsement so cover wouldnt apply. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt think this was fair. They said theyd had it polished by the original 
designer in 2021 and had since obtained a valuation from them and provided it to 
Accredited, so they said that should be enough to show its value. 
Accredited didnt agree and said it couldnt accept a post loss valuation. Unhappy with this, 
Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
thought that as Mr and Mrs M had a reliable valuation from someone who had inspected the 
ring within three years then it was fair and reasonable that Accredited accept the claim and 
pay Mr and Mrs M up to the policy limit of £2,500. She also thought it should pay £100 
compensation to make up for the inconvenience caused.
Accredited didnt agree, as it said Mr and Mrs M hadnt followed the requirements of the 
clear endorsement in the policy. And as the ring had been valued at a higher amount than it 
was insured for, it shows that they didnt have the right cover in place. It asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M had listed the engagement ring as a specified item on their policy at a value of 
£2,500. The policy states that the following endorsement would apply in these 
circumstances:
Jewellery item more than £2,000 - valuation required
If you make a claim for any watch or item of jewellery shown on the schedule with a 
replacement value of £2,000 or
more, you must provide a professional UK valuation from within the last three years.
I can see that the last valuation carried out before the loss was in 2018, so I agree Mr and 
Mrs M didnt meet the endorsement. 
However, as well as the policy terms, I also need to consider whats fair and reasonable. 
Here, Mr and Mrs M had taken the ring to the person who originally made it in 2021  the 
year before the loss. And they had inspected it and cleaned it. And five days after the loss 
they reached out to the same jeweller and asked them to provide a valuation based on the 
specification they had on file and the more recent inspection. So I consider this valuation to 
be very reliable.
Further, the fact that the jeweller saw it the year before, suggests that there had been no 
major deterioration in quality or damage to the ring. As the endorsement only requires a 
valuation within three years, the inspection the year before, means the post loss valuation 
would be more reliable than a valuation from a longer period of time before the loss but one 
that is less than three years.
Ive considered what Accredited has said about Mr and Mrs M not having the correct policy 
cover or paying the right premium as the valuation is higher than the amount the ring is 
covered for. And I agree that it wouldnt be fair for them to receive more than the cover 
theyve paid for.   
However as Accredited has accepted there was a valid loss, and Mr and Mrs M have 
provided a reliable valuation from a jeweller who has seen the ring within three years, I think 
its fair and reasonable that it accepts the claim and pays Mr and Mrs M the policy limit for 
the item. 
As Mr and Mrs M have been caused inconvenience by Accredited unfairly declining the 
claim in the first instance, I agree with our investigator that it should also pay £100 
compensation to make up for this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. I direct Accredited Insurance 
(Europe) Ltd to:
Pay Mr and Mrs M the policy limit of £2,500 to settle the claim for their lost 
engagement ring.
Pay £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman