DRN-4354243
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Santander UK Plc refuses to refund the £30,000 he says hes lost to a 
scam.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
In May 2017 Mr D received advice from an individual who, he later discovered, wasnt 
authorised to give investment advice. He was shown brochures and videos which 
persuaded him to invest into an overseas property development (which I will call T). He 
expected to get annual returns/income of at least 7% and have the use of the 
accommodation for two weeks each year. He paid for the investment using two cheques 
(for £10,000 and £20,000) drawn on his Santander current account. Between June 2017 
and August 2019 he received returns of almost £4,000. But when the income stopped 
arriving, and demands were still being made for him to pay annual expenses, he 
concluded that hed been scammed and raised a complaint with Santander. He says he 
was unable to pursue a complaint against the adviser because their company had been 
wound up and it was not an FCA-regulated firm.
Santander refused to reimburse Mr D. The bank said hed authorised the payments and 
cheques arent covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the Code). So 
Mr D asked us to look into the matter.
Our investigator thought the second cheque payment was significantly unusual and/or 
out of character given the way Mr D had operated his account in the past. But he didnt 
think there was a sufficient window of opportunity for the bank to have questioned him 
about it before the cheque was paid. So he didnt recommend that Santander should 
refund the money. But Mr D (via his representative) disagreed, so the complaint has 
come to me.
I issued a provisional decision last month setting out why I was minded to reach the same 
overall outcome as the investigator, but giving some additional reasoning. I have reproduced 
my provisional findings below.
There are various, long-standing obligations for banks to be alert to fraud and scams and to 
act in their customers best interests and the method of payment doesnt affect the banks 
obligations. But these responsibilities are based on there having been a fraud or scam. So, 
my first consideration must be whether Mr D was actually scammed.
Not every complaint referred to us as an investment scam is actually a scam. Some cases 
simply involve high-risk (and, often, unregulated) investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. And some investments may have been promoted using sales methods that 
were, arguably, unethical and/or misleading. But while a consumer who has lost out might 
regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they dont always meet the high legal threshold 
or burden of proof for fraud. Which, under The Fraud Act 2006, is to dishonestly make a 
false representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain 
or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss.
Ive seen a number of complaints about investment scams. Quite often its relatively clear 
from the available evidence that the consumer has been scammed. But Mr Ds case is a little 
different in that he made payments to a company which is still active. And Ive seen nothing 
which supports Mr Ds assertion that this company  or the administrative company that has 
been responsible for collecting fees for the investment  is currently, or has been in the past, 
under investigation by the financial services industry regulator (the FCA). Similarly, neither 
company is mentioned on the FCAs or the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCOs) alerts or warning lists.
I also note Mr D received regular returns  representing approximately 13% of his £30,000 
investment  for nine months after he invested his money. In my experience, its unusual for 
scammers to pay this sort of return.
The bank account into which Mr Ds cheques were paid is held by one of the UKs largest 
banking groups. When Santander attempted to reclaim Mr Ds money, that bank told 
Santander the account was long-standing, and it had no concerns about its operation. 
With the above in mind, Im not currently convinced its fair to conclude that Mr D was 
scammed.
But, even if Im wrong about that, I still cant fairly instruct Santander to refund Mr Ds 
£30,000. While I agree with the investigator that the second cheque (at least) was out of 
character and should have prompted intervention from the bank, I dont think that 
intervention would have made a difference. I say this, not least, because:
The type of investment Mr D entered into is unregulated and poses a high risk, but not all 
overseas property scheme like this one are scams. It was not the banks role to protect 
Mr D against the risk of a bad bargain or to give investment advice.
As noted above, Ive seen nothing in the public domain, at the time Mr D wrote the 
cheques, that ought to have indicated he was falling victim to an investment scam.
Mr D says he wouldnt have invested if Santander had checked the FCAs register and 
told him the adviser whod recommended the investment wasnt regulated. But Im not 
persuaded by this argument. Mr D says he was advised to invest by the same person 
who had recently given him advice about his pension and he later found out that the 
adviser wasnt authorised by the FCA. But hes also provided a Suitability Report from 
January 2017 which gives advice about what to do with his pension. This report appears 
to have been written by an individual at a company which was an appointed 
representative of an FCA-approved firm. And, importantly, that individual and firm is 
different to the one Mr D has named as having given the advice about the property 
investment. The Suitability Report also confirms that the firm was authorised by the FCA. 
Its not currently clear to me how or why Mr D would have become involved with another 
adviser in order to be given the advice about the property investment. But I think, having 
received advice already from a regulated adviser, Mr D ought to have had some 
awareness of the importance of dealing with an authorised adviser. And, perhaps, that 
adviser was unwilling to give advice about an unregulated investment, so Mr D sought 
guidance elsewhere.
Its difficult to conclude that Mr D was an entirely nave investor at the point when he 
chose to put money into this property scheme. As Ive already noted, he had recently received pensions advice from a regulated adviser and the Suitability Report indicates, 
amongst other things, that he was keen to take a more active role in the management of 
his pension fund.
Mr Ds representative made no additional comments in response to my provisional decision. 
And Santander agreed with my provisional findings.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party has sent any new evidence or arguments for me to
consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision
and reproduced above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman