DRN-2707950
The complaint
Mr Hs representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains on his behalf that 
he was given unsuitable investment advice by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada 
(U.K.) Limited, referred to as Sun Life. 
In short, the CMC says, Mr H wasnt made aware of the shorter term 10-year contract, with 
the option to extend the term.  
What happened
In late 1993, Mr H was advised to invest in a 15-year savings plan, also known as an 
Outlook for Savings Plan. It was a regular premium, unit-linked, qualifying savings plan, 
designed to pay out a lump sum upon maturity. 
The plan started in April 1994, with a 15-year term, for £25 a month and £3,375 
life cover. 
At the time it was recorded:
Mr H was 33 years of age, single, and in full-time employment earning £30,000 a 
year. 
He had a mortgage but no other liabilities. 
He had a net monthly disposable income of £250. 
He wanted to save for 15 years but couldve chosen between 10 and 20 years.  
The money was invested in the balanced fund in line with his attitude to risk.
Sun Life didnt uphold the complaint. In short, it said:
The recommendation was suitable for Mr H and the advice wouldve been given 
based on his circumstances at the time.
Life cover meant the plan was qualifying for tax purposes. 
At the time the adviser wouldve only recommended products offered by his own 
company. 
A balanced fund wasnt considered unsuitable for this kind of investment, and 
although the maturity value was less than what Mr H paid in, he wasnt given any 
guarantees. 
Unfortunately for Mr H, the plan matured just after a major downfall in the 
stockmarket. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Despite what the CMC says, there wasnt a requirement to record what, if any, 
investments were discussed. But on the face of the evidence its likely that 
alternatives were discussed, and Mr H chose the 15-year term savings plan. 
Just because a 10-year term plan was available, doesnt mean that the 
recommendation was unsuitable. 
The life cover was negligible, and the minimum amount required for the plan to be 
qualifying for tax purposes  which wouldve been advantageous to Mr H given that 
he was a higher rate tax payer. 
Mr H couldve chosen the same level of cover on a shorter policy, so it makes no 
difference.  
Sun Life has confirmed that the charge has been decreasing as the plan value has 
been increasing. In other words, the first charge in 1994 was £0.17, and 10 years 
after it was £0.12. In October it was £0.02.  
The CMC disagreed with the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. In short, it said:
The advisers sold the longest duration plan possible. The longer the term the greater 
commission and thats what the sale was motivated by. 
The 10-year term policy was suitable because it could be extended. 
The firm wasnt just obliged to recommend a suitable product from its range but the 
most suitable. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im not persuaded 
that the recommendation was unsuitable. 
I appreciate what the CMC says about alternatives, but in the circumstances, I dont think the 
recommendation to take out a 15-year term savings plan  pursuant to Mr Hs identified 
need  was unsuitable. 
Im mindful that out of the possible options  between 10 and 20 years, and possibly even 25 
years  Mr H chose the 15-year plan and maintained it to maturity. This doesnt suggest that 
it was something he didnt want, on the contrary I think its more likely (than not) he 
discounted other options in place of the 15-year plan.  
In other words, just because there isnt a record the adviser discussed any alternatives, 
doesnt necessarily mean that alternatives werent discussed. Im aware there was no 
requirement at the time to record what other investments were discussed. 
In circumstances, Im unable to agree that the recommendation was unsuitable, just because 
a 10-year term plan  with an option to extend to 15 years  was in existence. Mr H was 
perfectly entitled to commit to 15 years from the outset and thats what he did. So, whether 
the 10-year plan wouldve also been suitable  and Ive no evidence to suggest that it was 
more suitable  doesnt render the recommendation unsuitable. I also dont think Mr H was 
advised to take any more risk than he was willing to at the time with his disposable income. It seems that Mr H was a higher rate tax payer so was likely to benefit from the addition of 
life cover which I understand cost little and was included to qualify for tax purposes - so no 
capital gains or income tax is payable on any gains the plan makes when it matures. 
I also note Sun Life suggests that the amount of cover was the minimum to make the plan 
qualifying and typically the cost was a small part of the overall premium. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest Mr H was unhappy with this. 
I also think it was likely to be useful for any future change in circumstances. Im mindful that 
Mr H went on to have his own family a few years later and therefore was likely to benefit 
from life cover.  
I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what he wants to hear. But on the face of the 
available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what 
he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman