DRN-2193626
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didn't actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep 
things simple.
Miss M says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Miss M opened a store card account in a shop in 2002. At the same time she took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance on Miss Ms store card 
each month if shed made a successful claim for injury, sickness or unemployment. It also 
included some purchase and price protection cover and life cover.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. AXA disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms case.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Ms complaint. This is because Miss Ms told us she was 
suffering from a medical condition when she took the policy out. The policy wouldnt have 
paid out for claims resulting from any condition which Miss M knew about when the policy 
started.
Ive taken into account all AXAs comments, including what it says about the condition that 
Miss M had usually being manageable. It says the condition would normally be treated with 
medication, and wouldnt affect the customers lifestyle. Its also pointed out that Miss M 
would have been able to claim for any other condition that caused her to take a sufficient 
period off work.
But Miss Ms told us she was receiving on-going treatment for her condition when she took 
out the PPI. Shes also told us shed had some time off work for it. I know of no reason to 
doubt what Miss Ms told us. And given the nature of Miss Ms condition, I think its likely 
shed have been concerned that she might need to take further time off work for it in the 
future.
So I think there was a risk that the policy wouldnt have paid out when Miss M needed it 
most. And I think that if shed realised this, its unlikely shed have decided to take it out. 
AXAs told us that it does believe that Miss M suffered from the condition at the start of the 
policy. Given this, and the fact that I think its likely that Miss M would have been concerned 
about the potential to need to take time off work for the condition in the future, I dont 
consider that I need to ask Miss M for further evidence in order to reach a fair decision.
Putting things right
AXA should put Miss M in the position she'd be in now if she hadn't taken out PPI.
If Miss Ms store card account is still open:
A. AXA should find out how much Miss M would owe on her store card account if the 
policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Miss M owes and what she would 
have owed.
If Miss M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. If  when AXA works out what Miss M would have owed each month without PPI 
Miss M paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Miss M paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Miss M would have owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year
C. AXA should tell Miss M what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Miss M that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
If Miss Ms store card account is now closed:
A. AXA should find out how much Miss M would have owed when she closed her store 
card account if the policy hadn't been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis- sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Miss M owed when she closed 
her account and what she would have owed if she hadn't had PPI.If Miss M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss M would have 
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
C. If  when AXA works out what Miss M would have owed each month without PPI  
Miss M paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Miss M paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Miss M would have owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year. 
D. AXA should tell Miss M what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax it's taken off if she asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Miss M that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA France IARD to put things right by 
doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 November 2020. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman