DRN-4317546
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the service he received from Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, 
surrounding transfers he wanted to make from his account.
What happened
Mr R wanted to make a series of transfers from his account. Some of these transfers were 
flagged by Halifaxs fraud detection system which meant that Halifax needed to speak with 
Mr R to verify the transfers before allowing them to complete. Mr R wasnt happy about this, 
and he also wasnt happy about the time he was having to expend talking with Halifax or 
how he was spoken to by their agents. So, he raised a complaint.
Halifax responded to Mr R and agreed that, on some occasions, he hadnt received the 
standard of service from them that he was entitled to expect. Halifax apologised to Mr R for 
this and offered to pay £100 to him as compensation for the trouble and upset hed incurred. 
But Halifax didnt feel theyd acted unfairly by flagging some of the transfers for further 
checks as they had, and they also felt that Mr R had contributed to the cumulative length of 
time hed had to spend on the phone by not being reasonable to their agents. Mr R wasnt 
satisfied with Halifaxs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt Halifaxs response to Mr Rs 
complaint, including the offer of £100 compensation, already represented a fair resolution to 
what had happened. Mr R remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
Like all banks, Halifax have an obligation to have systems and processes in place to protect 
their customers money. And given these obligations, I dont consider that Halifax have acted 
unfairly by using the automated fraud detection systems that that employ, especially as 
theyve confirmed to Mr R that theyre aware of several instances of attempted fraud which 
involved payments being made to the business that Mr R was instructing the transfers to.
This isnt to say that Mr R wasnt inconvenienced by the transfers being flagged for further 
checks as they were. But it is to say that, given the unwelcome risk of fraud that presently 
exists surrounding banking practices, it can be case that a degree of inconvenience and 
frustration is unfortunately necessary for customers such as Mr R  resultant from the 
obligations that banks have regarding fraud security, which Im satisfied guided Halifaxs 
actions in this instance. And while such necessary inconvenience is undoubtedly 
unfortunate, I wouldnt consider it to be unfair. 
When Mr R was required to speak with Halifax, he was entitled to expect an appropriate 
standard of service from them. Ive listened to several calls between Mr R and Halifaxs 
agents. And while I wont discuss each call separately here, I agree with Mr R that he didnt 
receive the standard of service he should have received on all occasions. 
But I dont agree the standard of service that Mr R received from Halifax was outrageous as 
Mr R contends, or that Halifaxs agents were rude and obstructive to him as he feels was the 
case. Indeed, from an impartial perspective, I feel that there were instances where Mr Rs 
own behaviour towards Halifaxs staff wasnt to the standard that Halifaxs staff were 
reasonably entitled to expect from Mr R and contributed to the length of several calls. And 
this is especially the case given that Im satisfied Halifaxs staff were attempting to comply 
with processes surrounding the temporary blocking of Mr Rs requested transfers that Ive 
previously explained Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for Halifax to implement.    
Ultimately, I feel that Halifaxs response to Mr Rs complaint already represents a fair 
outcome and does fairly compensate Mr R for the poor standard of service he received from 
Halifax on some occasions. And I dont feel that Halifax should fairly be asked to take any 
further action beyond the apology and offer of £100 compensation theyve already made. 
So, while I will be upholding this complaint in Mr Rs favour, Ill only be doing so to formally 
compel Halifax  should Mr R accept this decision  to pay the £100 theyve previously 
offered to him. I realise this may not be the outcome Mr R was wanting. But I hope hell 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Halifax must make a payment of £100 to Mr R.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax, on the basis explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman