DRN-3473104
The complaint
Mr W complains about the transfer of his investments by Cheetham Jackson Ltd, referred to 
as Cheetham or the business. 
In summary, he says:
More shouldve been done by the business to mitigate his loss. 
Hes unhappy about the way his fund has been managed.
Hes suffered financial loss because of the actions of the business.  
Mr W is being assisted by his wife, Mrs W. 
What happened
Your text here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In February 2020, Mr W and Mrs W met with the business to discuss retirement planning. 
They had separate investments so were assessed and advised individually. Im aware Mrs 
W says they always discussed things together and the advice was to them both. She also 
clarified that the meeting was in relation to Mr Ws early retirement not hers.  
They were both advised to transfer their funds  from their existing respective providers (the 
transferor) to a new provider (the transferee)  generally in the hope of better (and more 
tax efficient) returns, lower fees, and heading towards Mr Ws plans for retirement. 
In summary, Mr W was advised to transfer his GIA and ISA (with the transferor), whilst Mrs 
W was advised to transfer her investment bond, ISA and GIA with two different transferors. A 
total of £206.887 was in due course transferred. 
Im aware that theres an extensive chronology, but I dont think it is necessary for me to 
repeat it in my decision. In summary, I note Cheetham started the process on 19 February 
2020. I understand the transferee received instructions the next day and contacted the 
transferor upon receipt the very same day.
Based on the chronology, it seems that on 23 March 2020, the transferor received a letter 
from Cheetham  enquiring about the transfer  after the government lockdown was 
announced. I note Mrs W is unhappy that, despite their instructions, Cheetham hadnt 
reviewed their portfolio in that time. 
It seems that in due course, on 26 March 2020, Mrs W was informed by the transferor that 
the investments had been cashed. I note soon after she requested the GIA money be held in 
cash until the market stabilised.
I note on 27 March 2020, Cheetham chased the transferor for an update as the process was 
taking longer than usual. I note Cheetham was told that due to extreme market activity 
(caused by the pandemic) the process was taking two to three weeks longer than usual. 
I understand the transfer was subsequently completed except for Mr Ws ISA. It seems that 
Cheetham missed that request and the money remained in Mr Ws GIA and so wasnt 
transferred into the ISA. Based on what Mrs W says it seems Mr W didnt know this until 
sometime later, probably in late August 2020.  
Im aware that theres been much correspondence between Cheetham and Mr W and Mrs W 
relating to the transfer process and the timing of it. As I mentioned earlier, I dont need to 
address the correspondence individually in order to reach a decision in this case. 
Unhappy with matters, I note that in June 2020, Mr W and Mrs W formally complained, and 
in August/September 2020, they ended their relationship with the business. 
The business didnt uphold the main complaint. In short it said it wasnt responsible for the 
losses claimed and that it had completed the transaction reasonably. However, it did accept 
responsibility in relation to some missing correspondence and charges and offered 
compensation in respect of that. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be partly upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Initially, a number of complaint points were raised  around administration and 
communication  that were highlighted/dealt with in Cheethams final response letter. 
Many of the issues were resolved before the complaint was referred to our service, 
so theres no need to mention them here. 
Cheetham has already offered to pay Mr W (and Mrs W) £150 compensation for 
postal issues and a refund of £197.22 for overcharging on fees. 
In terms of the advice, he cant say that Cheetham did anything wrong, because:
oMr W wanted better capital growth and believed transferring his funds gave 
him a better chance for this. 
oMr W had capacity for loss, therefore was in a position to take a risk to 
achieve better returns on his capital. 
oThe new portfolio also offered a better charging structure which allowed Mr W 
to combine his fees with Mrs Ws, thereby reducing the impact of the fees.     
In terms of the transfer, he cant say that Cheetham did anything wrong. They acted 
in line with Mr Ws instructions and were in regular contact with the transferee. Once 
it had made the initial request on 19 February 2020, matters were largely out of its 
hands. It responded to any requests from third parties in good time. 
Whilst the transferor and transferee have accepted responsibility for their respective 
wrongdoing, he cant say that Cheetham has done anything wrong. 
Despite what Mrs W says, theres nothing to say that the recommendation to move to 
a new provider was wrong. Information provided would suggest that it was the best 
way forward. 
A quick comparison with what he received, with what he wouldve got had he stayed 
with the transferor, suggests that the move was beneficial. 
The error made was in relation to Mr Ws ISA. The money remained invested in the 
GIA, despite Mr W asking for it to be transferred into his ISA. This meant Mr W 
missed out on his yearly tax allowance as the money wasnt transferred. 
Consequently, Mr W is liable to pay Capital Gains Tax (CGT) that he would otherwise 
not have paid.  The put things right Cheetham should do the following:
oApply to HMRC to correct the error made and rectify any error with regards to 
Mr Ws tax status. 
oRefund the CGT Mr Ws paid or is liable to pay, as a result of this error.  
oPay an additional £150 compensation (on top of any amount offered) for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Cheetham agreed with the investigators view but Mr W didnt. Mrs W, on behalf of Mr W, 
asked for an ombudsmans view and made the following points on his behalf:
In short, their new IFA said:
oCheetham was asked to cover any liability for the GIA to ISA transfer only, but 
there may not be a liability if the transfer is within Mr Ws allowance.
oHowever, this wouldnt cover the capital gain for the fund switches that its 
making within the GIA. A quick assessment of the capital gains within the 
GIA, suggests that itll have to be split over two years, regardless of the GIA 
to ISA transfer, because of the total gain on the account.  
oTo avoid delay and going back and forth with Cheetham, and avoid muddying 
the waters, its best to continue with the advice it set out and continue dealing 
with the CGT on its end, over two years, with the aim of avoiding CGT liability 
and still making use of the ISA allowance for this tax year and 2022/23.     
Considering the above, theyve decided to let their new IFA deal with the CGT issue 
as they trust them.
The dont believe that Cheetham has acted in their best interest from the start in 
2018, but particularly dealing with the transfer of their assets 
If Cheetham had re-registered the investments, the transferee wouldve had more 
control over the movement of funds and wouldnt have been out of the market during 
these volatile times and wouldnt have incurred a loss of £19,200. The actions of their 
new providers prove this point. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.
Putting things right
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
Mrs W and Cheetham have provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which 
Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope they wont take the fact my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy. Im aware of the extensive background to this complaint. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point or question raised under a 
separate subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this 
case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not considering the 
pertinent points. 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mrs W and Cheetham, and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case, rather 
than take any sides. Im not here to put in place recommendations so that the same thing doesnt happen to other customers or decide if the business couldve done things differently. 
Im considering whether (or not) it made an error. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the parties say, I dont think 
Cheetham behaved reasonably by leaving Mr Ws money in the GIA rather than transferring 
it into his ISA as instructed. 
Cheetham doesnt dispute this point. I note it accepts that the transfer ought to have 
happened automatically. However, due to a human error a box that shouldve been ticked 
was missed. And despite a meeting in September, this wasnt done because Mr W and Mrs 
W had terminated their relationship with the business. 
In the circumstances I think the redress recommended by the investigator is broadly suitable. 
Notwithstanding what Mrs W says in response to the investigators view in respect of her 
latest discussions with her IFA, in terms of redress, I think Cheetham should still be 
prepared, if required, to do the following:
Contact HMRC, in order to correct the error with regards to Mr Ws tax status for that 
year. 
Refund the CGT, if Mr W isnt able to mitigate the loss through his new IFA over two 
years. 
Pay Mr W an additional £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused in terms of this issue with HMRC and having to chase the business to try and 
rectify the error through a new IFA. 
I appreciate that Cheetham has offered to assist with the CGT, but Mr W and Mrs W have 
lost faith in its ability to deal with their investments. In the circumstances I still think its fair 
that they should deal with any potential CGT issue that might arise from this complaint.   
Given that the proposed redress is in line with the redress recommended by the investigator 
and accepted by Cheetham, I dont think its necessary for me to issue a provisional decision 
just because its now contingent on Mr W being successfully able to mitigate the CGT liability 
(through his new IFA).   
Nevertheless, I think Cheetham Jackson Ltd should also pay what it has already offered, 
unless it has already done so:
£197.22 refund for overcharging fees. 
£150 compensation in relation to the missing correspondence issue. 
Theres a separate (similar) complaint against Cheetham from Mrs W that Ive also 
considered but I havent upheld. In this instance, Im only considering the actions of 
Cheetham in respect of Mr W. 
The above notwithstanding, I think given Mr Ws objective for capital growth, in line with his 
early retirement planning, I cant say that the advice to transfer at the time was wrong. Based 
on what Mrs W says, it seems they were unhappy with the state of play of their investments 
at the time. Despite what Mrs W says, I also dont think the business was wrong not to cancel the 
transaction of its own volition, or carry out a further review of the portfolio, without timely 
valid instructions from her and/or Mr W to do so. 
I note Mrs W says she thought the business mightve erred on the side of caution and waited 
for the market to recover, but I dont think Cheetham was obliged to do so in this instance, 
because thats not what it was asked to do. If thats what she and/or Mr W wanted they 
ought to have made that clear to the business. 
Without the benefit of hindsight, in theory, its possible that the markets might have dropped, 
whilst Cheetham was reviewing the portfolio (of its own volition) potentially causing a 
significant financial loss to Mr W and leaving him with little or no option but to sell later. So, 
on the face of the evidence and on balance, despite what he/Mrs W says, Im unable to 
agree that the business has done anything wrong by not stopping/cancelling the transfer. 
Even if the business was able to transfer in-specie it means that Mr Ws holdings wouldve 
been far more exposed to adverse market movements.    
Despite what Mrs W says, Im conscious that no guarantees were given about the level of 
returns/growth Mr W might receive, that was always dependent on the financial markets. In 
the circumstances, the business isnt responsible for any change in the investment value. I 
acknowledge the value is dependent on the stockmarket, and its not something that the 
business could predict or control. So, whilst the business may have given Mr W an idea of 
what he might receive upon encashment, and the hope was that hed make money, Im not 
persuaded that it provided any guarantees. 
I note in correspondence dated 27 March 2020, Cheetham explained it suspects the 
transferor was dragging its feet as it will have received a lot of instructions to cash. It also 
explained that the markets are volatile and that if the transferor sold down when high then it 
would have still dropped at its end in line with the market dropped.  
Im mindful Mrs W is unhappy about the time it took Cheetham to chase the transferor and 
that it only did so when the market was on a downturn. Based on conversations with the 
investigator I note she says that she/they didnt ask the business or the transferor to stop 
because she was looking after unwell family members. So, in the circumstances, in the 
absence of instructions from Mrs W and/or Mr W, I dont think the business was wrong not to 
have stopped the transfer of its own volition. However, given the state of the markets at the 
time, on balance, I think its unlikely that Mr W wouldve have done things differently. 
Despite what Mrs W says, on balance Im satisfied that the recommendation was made by 
Cheetham in good faith. In other words, despite what she says Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that the business didnt have Mr Ws interest at heart.  
In any case, given Mr Ws objective, and the potential benefits of the move  such as capital 
growth and lower fees  it seems the recommendation was suitable. Based on 
correspondence between Cheetham and the investigator dated July 2021, it seems that Mr 
W and Mrs W are better off having transferred their assets.  But even if it came to light, with 
the benefit of hindsight, the move wasnt beneficial, on balance I cant say that it was the 
business fault or that Mr W wouldve done thing differently. 
In other words, notwithstanding the points made by Mrs W, given that it was at the start of a 
global pandemic and subsequent government lockdown, I think Mr W was more likely (than 
not) to have chosen to transfer his holdings. Im aware there was a lot of unpredictability in 
the markets, and a lot of movement by investors trying to do the right thing with their 
investments. In the circumstances, and on balance, subject to the ISA/GIA issue, I cant say that the 
business has done anything wrong in terms of the transfer or is responsible for the delays  
for which Im aware the transferee and transferor have respectively accepted some liability.  
Im mindful the investigator says that once the instructions were given the matter was largely 
out of Cheethams hands, therefore any losses arising from when the investments were sold 
and bought would also be out of its hands. Whilst Im aware that Mrs W disagrees with this 
conclusion, in this instance I dont think its unreasonable. In the circumstances I dont think 
the business couldve known in advance how long the transferee and/or transferor(s) would 
take. 
I appreciate Mr W will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, I cant ask the business to do anything other 
than pay redress as set out below.  
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give Mr W what he wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
To put things right, Cheetham Jackson Ltd should, if required, do the following:
Contact HMRC, in order to correct the error with regards to Mr Ws tax status for that 
year. 
Refund the CGT, if Mr W isnt able to mitigate the loss (through his new IFA or 
otherwise) over two years. 
Pay Mr W an additional £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused in addition to the compensation already offered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman