DRN-2884908
The complaint
Mr A complains that he bought an item using interest free credit, through PayPal Europe Sarl 
& Cie, SCA. But he said that the payment he made hadnt been used to pay off the item he 
bought.
What happened
Mr A said he bought a fan. He bought this through an offer which said he could have this 
item interest free, if he paid in six instalments. But Mr A said hed actually paid almost all the 
money off straight away. Except that payment hadnt been applied to his purchase. And he 
said that his balance hadnt reduced to reflect his payment. 
PayPal said that Mr A had £3,000 of credit available to him. Thats the most PayPal would 
lend him, and it had already lent him most of that. Just before he bought this item, he didnt 
have enough available credit to make this purchase. 
But then, on 31 March, Mr A paid £500 onto his PayPal credit balance. That reduced his 
debt a bit, enough that he could buy the fan. 
Then on 1 April, the next day, Mr A bought the fan, borrowing money again from PayPal 
credit. 
PayPal said that Mr A couldnt have meant the £500 to pay off the fan, because he hadnt 
bought that when he made this payment. And it said that it would always apply payments to 
the part of the debt that incurs the highest interest rate, anyway, because Mr A is better off if 
the debt hes paying interest on reduces fastest. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that he could see that 
what PayPal had said matched what was on Mr As statements. Our investigator didnt think 
PayPal had acted inappropriately or unfairly, so he said he wouldnt ask it to do any more.
Mr A didnt agree. He didnt think he should have to pay this debt while the dispute was 
ongoing. And he said he is paying twice. Because Mr A didnt agree with our investigator, 
this case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Ive looked at Mr As statements. I can see that in March, he was using almost all of his 
available credit. Mr A pays interest on that debt each month. 
In March, Mr A didnt have £549 in available credit, to buy this fan. 
When he paid £500 on 31 March, that money was used to reduce his pre-existing debt. That 
also meant he freed up enough credit for him to buy the fan. 
When he bought the fan, his available credit was used up. When interest was charged that 
month on his pre-existing debt, Mr A was then actually slightly over his credit limit. 
I dont think Mr A is being asked to pay for the fan twice. And I dont think that PayPal made 
a mistake when it applied the payment he made on 31 March to his existing debt. He hadnt 
bought the fan then, so PayPal couldnt use this payment towards that purchase. 
I know that Mr A will be disappointed, but I dont think PayPal has done anything wrong here. 
And that means I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman