DRN-2862943
The complaint
Mrs M complains about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of a claim for subsidence 
she made on her home insurance policy. 
 
What happened
Mrs M insures her home with a policy underwritten by UKI. References within this decision to 
Mrs M include her husband, Mr M, who has made the majority of representations to our 
service and UKI.
In 2018 the property was damaged and investigations concluded that this was caused by 
subsidence. The claim was covered and UKI appointed representatives so that the extent of 
works to reinstate the property could be established. 
In 2019, Mrs M complained to UKI. She was unhappy about the way the claim had been 
handled and that no agreement had been reached on the repair works. When UKI 
responded to Mrs M, rejecting the complaint, it made a cash settlement for an amount it 
considered was adequate to repair the property.
Mrs M brought her complaint to our service. She didnt consider that the amount paid in 
settlement was suitable. She also complained about a number of other matters in relation to 
UKIs handling of the claim, and reimbursement of expenses incurred by her.
Our investigator thought that the claim should be upheld in part. She thought that there was 
evidence to support that the settlement amount was insufficient in the circumstances. She 
also considered that UKI should cover a number of the additional costs which had been 
claimed by Mrs M. She also considered that it should pay £1000 compensation.
UKI disputed several aspects of our investigators opinion, although it now accepts a number 
of the suggested outcomes. Mrs M argued that the compensation paid by UKI should be 
much higher.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I previously issued a provisional decision on this complaint. The contents of that are well 
known to both parties and theyve both commented on this. In summary, I said that, in order 
to put things right, UKI should:
Produce a fully costed schedule of works to fully demolish and rebuild the extension 
with the pitched roof, levelled floor and exterior wall moved as it previously agreed to. 
The floor area of this new extension should be the same as the current floor area of 
the extension, meaning that the length will likely need to be extended. The new 
extension should also have the same facilities as the current one.
Include within this schedule of works the repairs to other parts of the property which 
are covered on this claim.
Provide cover for alternative accommodation for the period when repair works do 
take place.
Reimburse the costs incurred by Mrs M for the installation of fencing.
Reimburse one quarter of the costs for gardening up to August 2019 and the cost of 
one monthly visit from August 2019 to July 2020.
Cover the cost of one monthly visit for a gardener for the period when Mrs M is out of 
the property when the repairs are carried out.
Reimburse the costs incurred by Mrs M of trial pits.
Reimburse the costs incurred by Mrs M for advice from a planning consultant.
Reimburse the costs incurred by Mrs M for a report prepared following the trial pit 
examinations.
Reimburse the costs incurred by Mrs M for solicitors advice. 
Pay £1000 compensation to Mrs M.
I also outlined that I wasnt minded to require UKI to cover for Mrs Ms alternative 
accommodation beyond July 2020 until the repair works were being carried out. I also didnt 
consider that UKI should be liable for costs incurred by Mrs M for additional activations of the 
alarm system at the property.
UKI confirmed it accepted my provisional findings. Mrs Ms position was that the proposal 
around the new scheme was broadly acceptable but she wanted further instructions to be 
given to UKI around how the claim should progress and be settled. 
Mrs M disagreed with my provisional findings about the alternative accommodation. She said 
that the property was uninhabitable and so UKI should provide cover for alternative 
accommodation on an ongoing basis until the repairs are complete. After she provided a 
report from her appointed surveyor, and letters from medical professionals about her and Mr 
Ms health, I asked UKI whether it would reconsider its position about alternative 
accommodation.
UKI asked to inspect the property in order to validate the comments of the surveyor. This 
was agreed and following the inspection, UKI take the view that no cover should be provided 
for alternative accommodation as the property remains habitable. Mrs M has sent two further 
reports which conclude that the property isnt safe for Mr and Mrs M to live in until the repairs 
are completed.
Mrs M also says that the alarm activations should be covered as theyd moved into 
alternative accommodation, and deactivated the alarm, at UKIs request as the repairs were 
due to start imminently. When these didnt start, because of UKIs unreasonable actions, she 
reactivated the alarm, incurring additional costs.
Ill outline my final findings in respect of this matter under the same headings as in my 
provisional decision.
The repair works and cash settlement
The need for a new scheme to carry out a lasting and effective repair isnt now in dispute. 
My reasons for why a new scheme is required remain unchanged, and the scope of what the 
scheme should consist of hasnt been challenged. A full demolish and rebuild of the 
extension is required, and if the original shape / dimensions cant be retained due to the 
necessary permissions, then changes will be required in order to ensure the same facilities and floor area are maintained.
Im aware that Mrs M thinks I should be more prescriptive about how the claim should be 
settled. In my provisional decision I said:
I dont seek to limit UKIs right to exercise its discretion in determining whether to use its own 
contractors or make a cash settlement to Mrs M. UKIs position seems to be that it would 
seek to make a cash settlement to Mrs M in order for her to use her own contractors, as it 
understands this to be her preferred option.
In the first instance here, UKI should determine whether it intends to use its own contractors 
or make a cash settlement. If it chooses to make a cash settlement, then that settlement 
should be at the rates charged by her contractors. This differs from what the policy terms 
and conditions say, which is that where either of these options are chosen, UKI will only pay 
what it would have paid if it had used its own contractors. But if it uses its own contractors, 
its likely to have the benefit of beneficial rates not available to Mrs M or other private 
customers. So if UKI chooses to make a cash settlement to Mrs M, its only fair that it meet 
the reasonable amounts charged by the contractors.
On the other hand, if UKI elects to use its own contractors, but Mrs M would prefer to employ 
her own contractors, then UKIs settlement should be limited to what it would have paid its 
contractors. This is because Mrs M would have chosen to receive the cash settlement rather 
than it being imposed on her by UKI.  
I remain satisfied that this is a practical solution to move matters forward. Im not minded to 
require UKI to do something different because Mrs M is concerned it will delay matters or 
otherwise seek to limit its liability. While its handling of the claim with regards to the 
necessary works hasnt been reasonable previously, this doesnt mean that this will 
continue. UKI should be given the opportunity to resolve and settle the claim in accordance 
with the policys terms and conditions, its own processes and whats fair as Ive outlined 
above. 
Alternative accommodation
The cover for alternative accommodation remains the largest outstanding matter in dispute. 
Id previously concluded that UKI wasnt obliged to cover alternative accommodation beyond 
July 2020 as I considered that Mrs M could have returned to the property from that point, as I 
had nothing to suggest the property was uninhabitable.
Mrs M and UKI disagree on this point. Mrs M, on the basis of a number of reports from 
professionals shes appointed and medical professionals opinions, say that its not safe for 
her to return to the property. UKI says that the property can be safely lived in. Its also said 
that it would carry out some minor temporary repair works to the property to prevent water 
ingress.
Although Mrs M has provided three separate reports from inspections of the property, Im 
more persuaded by the evidence of UKI. I say this because it seems to me that the reports 
relied on by Mrs M make two important assumptions, which I dont think are supported by 
the evidence. The first is that they moved out of the property originally because the repairs 
were going to start and the property wasnt safe to live in. I dont agree with this. The 
evidence I have is that the propertys suitability for habitation was not one of the 
considerations around moving to alternative accommodation.
The other incorrect assumption is that the property is continuing to move and the subsidence 
is progressive. Ive had the benefit of seeing comparative photographs of the property from 2018 and the last few weeks. While these do show cracking (and its accepted this is 
because of subsidence), the cracks dont appear to be noticeably bigger, or have occurred in 
new areas, within the main part of the property. Its evident that there has been some 
worsening of the cracks to one part of the extension (which is to be demolished and rebuilt). 
UKIs said that it will cover the cost of a temporary repair to this part of the extension which 
will prevent the ingress of water to that part of the property. I think this is a reasonable offer 
in the circumstances. Im aware that Mrs M says that water has also come through an 
electrical socket (which has been isolated) but other than his account of this, I havent seen 
evidence to show this has happened. UKIs agreed to make the electrical socket safe as part 
of the temporary repair its prepared to cover. It also said it will arrange for an electrician to 
ensure that it is safe.
As Im not satisfied that the property (and particularly the main structure) is the subject of 
ongoing movement, then Im not persuaded that the conclusions reached by the experts 
referred to by Mrs M are persuasive or mean that I should conclude that the property is 
uninhabitable.
When assessing whether a property is habitable, my starting point is that it should have (as 
a minimum) usable kitchen and bathroom facilities. The evidence I have is that the kitchen 
and a bathroom upstairs are relatively undamaged and usable. There is a toilet and wash 
basin in the extension where the majority of the damage has occurred.
Ive also carefully considered medical evidence provided by Mrs M. Medical professionals 
have said that, because of various conditions suffered by Mr and Mrs M, their health may be 
at risk if they return to the property. Unfortunately, Im unable to agree that on the basis of 
these reports UKI should be asked to extend the cover for alternative accommodation.
I say this because it appears that these medical opinions are based on a description of the 
condition of the property from Mr and Mrs M, rather than first hand sight of the property. And 
as such, Im not persuaded that the description of the property is consistent with what can be 
seen in photographs of it. One reason given for Mr and Mrs Ms health being at risk of 
worsening is that the property has been subjected to extensive ingress and water, causing 
dampness and mould. 
The photos of the property, and inspections of it, suggest that dampness and mould growth 
is limited to the extension area, with the main structure of the property being unaffected. 
UKIs proposed to carry out a temporary repair to the property which should prevent the 
ingress of water. This would also allow the restoration of utilities to the extension. Its also 
agreed to cover the costs of cleaning the extension area. And so it follows that if it does 
these things then risks to Mr and Mrs Ms health should be significantly reduced.
Its also been said by Mrs Ms doctor that returning to the property on a temporary basis, and 
then moving back out while repairs are completed, could cause stress which may 
exacerbate her medical conditions. I dont think this by itself is enough for me to say that UKI 
should continue covering the costs of alternative accommodation until repairs are complete. 
Moving accommodation may cause her stress, and this stress may in turn exacerbate 
existing conditions. Neither of these can be said will happen. Im not satisfied its fair to ask 
UKI to continue meeting the costs of alternative accommodation because of something 
which may happen. In any case, at some point, even if cover for the alternative 
accommodation was accepted, then shed have to move back to the property, when 
presumably the same factors around the impact on her health would exist. I also note that 
Mrs M moved out of the property into the alternative accommodation and nothing from the 
doctor suggests that her health was impacted by that move. Mrs M has also referred to mobility issues caused by her and her husbands medical 
conditions. Shes said that during particular periods of ill health, they will avoid using the 
stairs at the property, sleep downstairs and use the facilities in the extension for toileting and 
washing. But UKIs offer to carry out temporary repairs that should, I understand, allow for 
utilities to be restored to the extension. And having looked at the various medical opinions 
weve been provided, none of these refer to Mr and Mrs Ms mobility being impaired to the 
level that they cannot use the stairs at the property. I note in addition that the alternative 
accommodation theyve been residing in throughout this period is two storeys with all of the 
bedrooms on the first floor and the only bathroom facilities downstairs are a toilet and wash 
basin.
So for these reasons Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision. UKIs 
liability for alternative accommodation was only up to July 2020. But as Ive said before, and 
UKI has accepted, it will need to provide alternative accommodation for Mr and Mrs M during 
the period during which the full repairs (ie the demolish and rebuild) are taking place.
In addition Mrs M had claimed for a number of furniture items for the alternative 
accommodation, and UKI had declined to pay for these. I explained in my provisional 
decision why I was minded to ask UKI to pay these. This is accepted by UKI. UKI should pay 
Mrs M the (receipted) costs of a television stand, shelving unit and inserts.
Alarm de-activation and re-activation
I previously concluded that there was no reason for UKI to cover additional costs incurred by 
Mrs M for de-activating and re-activating an alarm at their property. Mrs M disputes this, as 
she says that the alarm was de-activated when she left the property to move into alternative 
accommodation, as she expected repairs to start imminently. When these did not, due to the 
dispute over liability, she incurred costs re-activating the alarm to provide security at the 
property.
I remain satisfied that UKI need not cover these additional costs. Ive had sight of a letter 
sent to Mrs M by UKI when she moved out of the property and this refers to her needing to 
move out while repairs are carried out. But the letter doesnt contain any date for the 
commencement of repairs, or a timeframe for them to start. In any case, its necessary to 
take all of the information and circumstances into account, rather than just relying on this 
letter. There was no start date, or even an agreed schedule of works when Mrs M moved out 
of the property. So in the circumstances, I cant agree that it was reasonable to de-activate 
the alarm when she moved out of the property. UKI shouldnt be liable for additional costs 
incurred by Mrs M for re-activating (and then de-activating again when the repairs do start) 
the alarm.
Tree removal and fencing
I previously agreed that UKI should be liable for the costs of fencing installed by Mrs M 
following the removal of trees from the property. UKI no longer disputes this point. My view 
on this is unchanged.
Gardening and maintenance
I previously said that UKI should cover the cost of one monthly gardening visit to the 
property between August 2019 and July 2020, and then again during the period when Mrs M 
moves out of the property when repairs are undertaken.UKIs agreed with this, but Mrs M says that one gardening visit should be covered every 
month from August 2019 until the repairs are complete, as the property isnt habitable and so 
their alternative accommodation cover should be extended.
Ive explained above why the alternative accommodation cover could reasonably end in July 
2020, and so theres no reason why UKI should be expected to cover gardening costs 
beyond July 2020 when Mrs M could reasonably have returned to the property, at which 
point shed be responsible for the maintenance of the property. 
My findings on this point remain unchanged.
Trial pits
Costs of trial pits were previously the subject of this complaint but prior to me being asked to 
make a decision, UKI accepted these should be covered. Theres no need for me to address 
this further.
Solicitor and professional fees
 In my provisional decision, I said that UKI should cover costs paid by Mrs M for a solicitor to 
give her advice about her claim. UKI now accepts this so I wont go into detail again about 
the reasons, other than to confirm that my opinion on this hasnt changed.
Mrs M also sought cover for professionals fees. In the provisional decision, I said:
Mrs M has also argued that, in order to ensure smooth progress of the repairs, a number of
specialists should be appointed to oversee the various stages. She considers that the costs 
of specialist planning consultants, a specialist design and building service, a surveyor and a 
structural engineer should be covered by the policy.
The policy terms and conditions provide that necessary professional fees will be covered in 
order to reinstate the property, and the settlement previously made included a payment for 
professional fees which were expected to arise during the claim. These were calculated as 
being 10% of the total cost of the works.
In the event that UKI carries out the works or pays the contractors directly, Id expect it to be 
paying the relevant professional fees directly. And in the case where a cash settlement is 
made, UKI would need to include within this an amount for professional fees. If Mrs M incurs 
more than the amount calculated by UKI, then she should submit those costs to UKI for 
consideration. It would be liable for the reasonable costs incurred by Mrs M for those. And 
similarly, it would be liable for the costs at the rates she paid, not what it would pay its 
preferred professionals.
But there are a few limitations to this. The first is that UKI should only be liable for 
professional fees which are connected to its own liabilities  so if Mrs M decides to carry out 
additional works beyond what is required for a lasting and effective repair of the property, 
then any fees incurred because of the additional works wont be covered.
The second limitation is that I dont consider that the additional specialists suggested by Mrs 
M are required. From what Ive seen, the complexity and issues which have arisen here are 
because of the dispute with UKI about the limits of its liabilities, not because the works 
required pose particular challenges which can only be overcome by reference to additional 
specialists.Mrs M believes this approach is unreasonable, and maintains that additional specialists 
should be employed, in effect because she doesnt trust UKI to carry out its duties diligently 
and without unnecessary delay or obstruction. As Ive said previously, I dont think its 
reasonable to ask UKI to cover additional costs because of what Mrs M thinks might happen. 
Its accepted a new scheme is required in order to reinstate the property, and the extent of 
what this scheme needs to include generally is set out within this decision. Im not inclined to 
place further conditions on how UKI goes about implementing this or define exactly which 
costs it should and shouldnt cover  the exact extent of what is needed is still unknown so I 
cant reasonably make such a finding. I havent seen anything which suggests that the 
complexity of the required repairs is such that specific expertise or additional professional 
advice above what would normally be required is necessary.
Compensation
I previously outlined why I thought UKI should pay £1000 compensation to Mrs M for the 
distress and inconvenience caused during this claim. I havent seen anything to dissuade me 
that this remains an appropriate amount, having considered all of the circumstances and 
information Ive been provided.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint in part. In order to put things right, I order U K 
Insurance Limited to:
Produce a fully costed schedule of works to fully demolish and rebuild the extension 
with the pitched roof, levelled floor and exterior wall moved as it previously agreed to. 
The floor area of this new extension should be the same as the current floor area of 
the extension, meaning that the length will likely need to be extended. The new 
extension should also have the same facilities as the current one.
Include within this schedule of works the repairs to other parts of the property which 
are covered on this claim.
Cover the temporary repairs to the property and cleaning of the extension to allow 
Mrs M to return to it and utilities to be restored.
Provide cover for alternative accommodation for the period when repair works do 
take place.
Reimburse the costs incurred by Mrs M for the installation of fencing.
Reimburse one quarter of the costs for gardening up to August 2019 and the cost of 
one monthly visit from August 2019 to July 2020.
Cover the cost of one monthly visit for a gardener for the period when Mrs M is out of 
the property when the repairs are carried out.
Reimburse the costs incurred by Mrs M of the trial pits.
Reimburse the costs incurred by Mrs M for the advice from the planning consultant.
Reimburse the costs incurred by Mrs M for the report prepared following the trial pit 
examinations.
Reimburse the costs incurred by Mrs M for the solicitors advice relating to the claim. 
Pay £1000 compensation to Mrs M.
Where Mrs M provides evidence of these costs having been paid, and those costs have 
previously been submitted to UKI, it should pay interest on those amounts at a rate of 8% 
simple per year from the dates of payment to the date of settlement.  
For the items Ive said that UKI must pay, it seems that the most practical way forward
would be for the amounts UKI is liable for to be deducted from the cash settlement paid
already by UKI, which will need to be returned to UKI in the event that it uses its own
contractors. In the event that a cash settlement is made for the new works, then this would,
Id suggest, be best dealt with by way of a further settlement for the difference with theaddition of its further liabilities which Ive outlined within the decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman