DRN-1655611
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy with Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd.s handling of the insurance renewal for 
her buildings only insurance policy for her holiday home. 
What happened
Ms W received a renewal quote from Triton at the beginning of October 2018, to renew her 
holiday home buildings only insurance policy later the same month. To ensure her policy 
remained in force, Ms W paid the full premium by cheque before the renewal date. The 
amount paid was £590.93.
A couple of months later, Ms W received a letter from Triton asking her to pay for the 
renewal of her policy. Ms W explained to Triton that she had paid it in full in October 2018. 
Triton acknowledged this and said it was an administration error from them and everything 
was okay.
The following year, Ms W realised she hadnt had any contact from Triton regarding the 
renewal of the policy. She emailed Triton in November 2019 to ask about the renewal of the 
policy and to make payment, as she wanted to ensure her holiday home remained insured. 
Triton explained that the new policy information would be sent to Ms W by email. Ms W 
didnt receive anything and became more concerned. She contacted the underwriting 
agency shown on her policy documents from October 2018. They confirmed that they had 
insured the holiday home until October 2018, but they hadnt received the renewal 
confirmation or payment from Triton for October 2018 to October 2019. So, Ms Ws holiday 
home had been uninsured for the previous 12 months. The agency told Ms W to get in touch 
with Triton. She tried to do this but didnt manage to speak to anyone. Ms W was concerned 
her money had been taken fraudulently and she wanted it refunded.
She didnt hear anything from Triton and she never received her money back. So, she raised 
a complaint with them. Triton never responded, so Ms W brought her complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator asked Triton to provide their response. They didnt so the investigator 
upheld the complaint for Ms W. She asked Triton to refund the premium of £590.93, pay 
interest on that amount and pay Ms W £100 compensation for the upset the matter had 
caused her.
As Triton didnt respond to our investigators opinion, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
 
 
 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the information is incomplete, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities, 
or whats most likely to have happened. In this case, Triton havent provided our service with 
any information, so my decision is based solely on what Ms W has provided. I find her 
information plausible and persuasive.
Ms W paid Triton before her policy renewed in October 2018 to ensure her policy remained 
active. And, once she knew that she didnt have any insurance cover in force, she made 
sure she sought cover with an alternative insurer.  
Ms W contacted Triton in December 2018 as there appeared to be some confusion 
regarding the insurance premium, and whether Ms W had paid it or not. At that stage, Triton 
confirmed to Ms W that her policy was in force and the communication from them was a 
result of an administration error. At this stage, Triton should have let Ms W know that her 
holiday home wasnt insured. This would have allowed Ms W to sort some insurance out. But 
Triton have allowed the property to be uninsured for 12 months. Fortunately, Ms W didn't 
need to make a claim on the policy.
Unfortunately, Triton havent responded to our request for information so I cant provide
Ms W with an explanation as to why the error occurred. But Im satisfied Triton havent 
renewed the policy as they should have and havent passed the premium to the insurers. 
And they should have refunded the money Ms W paid to them.
Given this, its reasonable for Triton to refund the premium paid by Ms W. Ms W has also 
confirmed that she tried to speak to Triton several times to get her money back, and she 
wasnt able to get through to anyone. None of her calls or emails were returned. Because of 
this upset, its also reasonable for Triton to pay Ms W £100 compensation. I think this 
amount fairly recognises the inconvenience and upset caused in this case.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decisionFor the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd must:
Pay Ms W her premium of £590.93;
Pay interest at eight per cent simple on the amount due from the date Ms W paid for 
her insurance policy to the date this amount is paid; *
Pay Ms W £100 compensation for the upset shes been caused.
 
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd deducts 
income tax from the interest it should tell Ms W how much has been taken off. Triton 
Insurance Brokers Ltd should give Ms W a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so 
she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2020.
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman