DRN-2381162
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) 
mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr K bought the policy in May 2004  it was added to a credit card he took out in September 
2002.
The policy cost 79p per £100 of Mr Ks outstanding monthly statement balance. And if he 
was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 10% of his balance 
for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ks complaint and Ill explain why.
Barclaycard had to let Mr K know the policy was optional and it had to get his consent before 
it applied PPI to his account. 
Barclaycard says Mr Ks policy was sold over the phone and that Mr K would have been told 
the policy was optional before he agreed to take it. On the PPI questionnaire Mr K sent us, 
he agreed that the sale took place over the phone, but his complaint point was that he didnt 
know the policy was optional. In more recent correspondence, Mr K disputes that a phone 
call ever took place and he now says the PPI was added to his account without his 
knowledge.
I cant know precisely what happened due to the limited information available. But I have to 
bear in mind that Mr K has given conflicting information about his recollection of the PPI. 
Mr K originally accepted that the sale took place over the phone and I havent seen any 
detailed explanation as to why he now believes that wasnt the case. 
Mr Ks PPI was sold several months after he started using his credit card. This is important 
because weve seen a number of sales by Barclaycard around the time Mr Ks policy was 
sold, and from what we know, if the credit card account was already in use, Barclaycard 
would only have sold PPI over the phone. So, I think its more likely than not that Mr Ks PPI 
was added to his account as a result of a phone call he had with Barclaycard.
Ive considered what Mr K says about not being aware PPI was added to his account. But as 
Ive said above, Mr K started using the card a long time before the PPI was added. The PPI 
appeared on his bank statements as PAYMENT PROTECTION PLAN and I think this was 
prominent. So, if Mr K wasnt expecting to see these transactions, I would have expected 
him to have queried them with Barclaycard much sooner. Mr K would have known that he 
didnt need PPI in order to have the card, because hed used it for so long without it. So, I 
think its more likely than not that Mr K was aware the PPI was optional and that he chose to 
take it during a phone call with Barclaycard. The sale took place some 15 years ago, so its 
understandable if Mr K doesnt remember this now. 
Barclaycard could not confirm for certain whether or not it would have recommended the 
policy to Mr K, so it reviewed the complaint as though it did. Giving advice puts more 
responsibility on Barclaycard  it means it had to check the policy was suitable for Mr K as 
well as give him enough information about the policy, so he could decide whether to take it 
or not. But Mr K says Barclaycard didnt give him any advice. And from what we know about 
how Barclaycard sold PPI at the time  I agree  its unlikely it did.
Either way, whether advice was given or not, I dont think this would have made a difference. 
I say this because Mr K was eligible for the policy and he doesnt appear to have been 
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover, such as pre-existing medical 
conditions or unusual employment circumstances. And based on what hes said about his 
circumstances at the time, I think the policy could have been useful to him. 
I also havent seen anything to suggest Mr K could not afford the policy.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr K about the terms and cost of the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it should have been, but for the same reasons as I think the policy was 
suitable for Mr K, I dont think better information would have changed his decision to take 
PPI.
Mr K says he was entitled to some sick pay from his employer and that he had some 
savings. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr K received and 
potentially for longer. Mr K could also have made repeat claims subject to a requalification 
period. And the policy would have enabled Mr K to use his savings for any other financial 
commitments he may have had at what could be a difficult time. 
So, based on everything Ive said above, I dont think better information would have changed 
Mr Ks decision to take the policy. As a result, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. That means 
Barclaycard doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because: 
Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr K about that. Because Barclaycard didnt tell Mr K, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.My final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr K any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman