DRN-2858026
The complaint
Mrs A complains that she was mis-sold a Platinum Account (PA) by Lloyds Bank PLC 
(Lloyds) in April 2005.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A says she did not need or want the PA.
Lloyds says that it recommended the PA to Mrs A as it was suitable for her based on her 
circumstances at the time.
I wasnt present at the sale so I can only look at the evidence available now.
Before the PA sale, Mrs A had previously had a fee free account, then a Gold packaged 
bank account for three years, and then a fee free account again. Throughout this period, she 
had also had substantial allowed overdrafts. 
So, she knew about packaged bank accounts, she knew she could downgrade an account at 
any time, and she knew she could have a substantial overdraft with a fee free account.
So, in my view, its more likely than not that Mrs A knew she had a choice when she took out 
the PA, and she chose to do so.
Lloyds recommended the PA to Mrs A, so Lloyds was required to ensure the PA was 
suitable for her and provide enough information for her to make an informed choice.
The PA benefits included worldwide travel insurance; AA car breakdown cover including 
home start and relay; mobile phone insurance; and a £250 interest free overdraft. It cost £15 
a month.
Lloyds has provided evidence that Mrs A travelled; used the car breakdown service; and 
benefitted from the interest free overdraft soon after the sale. I can also see that Mrs A was 
financially experienced and used to moving large sums between accounts. And there is 
nothing I can see in her circumstances at the time that would have stopped her from using 
the other benefits if she chose to.
So, I dont think I can say that the PA was unsuitable for her or that she didnt have or 
couldnt understand information about the account to make an informed decision whether to 
buy it, as I would need to if I were to uphold her complaint.
So, my conclusion is that I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong in the sale of the PA.
For completeness, I can see that Mrs A has raised other issues about borrowing and credit, 
and this decision is not about those. If she wants to pursue them, she would need to raise 
these with Lloyds first, and then she could come to this service if the matter is not resolved.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold her complaint about the sale of the Platinum Account in 
2005.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman