DRN-3031736
The complaint
Mr W says The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) failed to inform him that 
he couldve applied for an enhanced annuity in 2010 when he took his pension benefits.
Mr W is represented by Rightside Financial Services Ltd (RFS).
What happened
Mr W suffered a heart attack in 2006. RFS said he was made redundant due to his health 
problems in 2010 and had to retire. Although he was 65, it said hed planned to work longer. 
Mr W was a member of The Arc Bath and Portland Pension Scheme - an occupational 
pension scheme (OPS).
Prudential issued a letter to Mr W in March 2010 in the following terms:
We are writing to inform you that you are entitled to a pension from the above named 
scheme, which is administered by Prudential. We have asked the Department of Work and 
Pensions to assist us by forwarding this letter to youIt is our standard practice to issue a 
tracing letter via the DWP approximately 2 months prior to your retirement date. This is to 
ensure the details we have on record are accurate
Prudential sought personal details from Mr W so his pension claim could be processed. He 
responded on 16 April 2010 with the necessary information. On 23 April it then sent him a 
Notification of Pension Due letter, a quotation pack including a Key Features Document 
(KFD) and a Claim for Pension Due form.
Prudential explained Mr W should read the information it had sent him prior to completing his 
pension claim form. As part of the pack it sent, he was presented with two options for taking 
his pension benefits:
1. An immediate pension of £6,092 per annum with an annual widows pension of £3,046.
2. A reduced pension of: £4,569 and a Pension Commencement Lump Sum (PCLS) of 
£28,308.51
Mr W returned his pension claim form to Prudential on 30 April 2010. He chose to take a 
PCLS and a reduced pension income. On 7 May 2010, Prudential sent Mr W a letter to 
confirm his selection. It stated his pension payment would commence on 14 May. It also sent 
him a cheque for his PCLS.
The information provided to Mr W also set out certain important protections that may have 
been a compulsory requirement of his pension arrangements. For example, an annual 
increase in the benefits payable and a payment guarantee period in the event of his death. 
Its possible these elements were stipulated by the trustees of his OPS to replicate or deliver 
certain benefits of that scheme.
In May 2020 RFS complained to Prudential on behalf of Mr W about what had happened in 
2010. It said he shouldve been considered for an impaired life or enhanced annuity when he 
retired, and he wasnt made aware of this possibility. It also noted that Prudential had been 
sanctioned by the regulator for its failure to inform some customers about their Open Market 
Options, during the relevant period.
Prudential rejected Mr Ws complaint. It said:
The Key Features document clearly states enhanced annuities may be available if 
customers have a serious medical conditionwhich will shorten their life expectancy. If 
customers believed they may be eligible for an enhanced annuity, we asked that they get in 
touch with usAs we did not receive any notification from [Mr W] about his eligibility for an 
enhanced annuity, we were not made aware of this
It also said:
The FCA asked Prudential along with some other firms, to review certain non-advised 
annuities that were set up from 1 July 2008 up to 30 September 2017. The review concluded 
that some of our customers may not have been given sufficient information about the 
availability of, and their potential eligibility for enhanced annuities.
The review refers specifically to the eligibility for enhanced annuities and was in no way 
referring to our communications around the option of shopping around on the open market 
option. Therefore I cannot agree with your additional complaint point. For your information, 
Mr Ws annuity is out of scope for the review as his annuity was set up from funds arising 
from The Hanson Industrial Pension Scheme [presumably, formerly The Arc Bath and 
Portland Pension Scheme].
The Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. Mr W disagreed and so his case has been 
passed to me to review and to make a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have all the information Id like about Mr Ws complaint. For example, there are few 
details about why and how the trustees of his OPS came to secure a deferred annuity for 
him with Prudential. Ive not been provided with information about when this happened, the 
circumstances involved or how it communicated with scheme members about this. These 
are matters Mr W may want to take up with the trustees or his former employer in the first 
instance. Im only looking at Prudentials role in the events complained about.
Wheres theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, 
my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats 
deliberate; ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial 
businesses and their customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive 
concentrated my findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Although its accepted that Prudential didnt provide Mr W with advice about his pension 
arrangements, it still had to give him information that was clear, fair and not misleading. So, 
Ive reviewed the KFD which he received prior to his signing his pension claim form.Although the KFD was 25 pages long, it wasnt a dense document and I think it was 
reasonably clearly written. On page 10, which was titled How do you decide my income?, it 
set out the various factors which would determine how much he would receive, including the 
size of his fund, his age and gender. It also said:
If you have a health and/ or lifestyle related condition you may qualify for an Enhanced 
Annuity rate, please see Can I get a higher income if I have a medical condition? on page 
16.
On pages 16 and 17 of the information document it said:
You could qualify for a higher income if you and/or your dependant (if youve chosen the 
Joint-Life option) have a medical condition that could reduce your and/or your dependants 
life expectancy. This option is known as an Enhanced Annuity. To qualify for an Enhanced 
Annuity rate your pension fund must be worth at least £10,000 after taking any tax-free 
cash.
The KFD then went onto list the various health conditions that could qualify someone for a 
higher pension income. This covered heart conditions including heart attacks, heart bypass, 
angioplasty, angina and irregular heart-beat.
The guidance covered lifestyle conditions that might also mean an enhanced annuity would 
be appropriate. It said:
We will take into consideration conditions associated with your lifestyle such as smoking, 
high BMI, raised cholesterol and high blood pressure.
The KFD went on to state:
If you think you may be eligible for an Enhanced Annuity, please call us on the number in 
your quotation pack or speak to your financial adviser. Well then ask you to complete our 
medical questionnaire, whichll help us decide if you qualify. In some cases we may ask your 
doctor to send us a medical report. Depending on the severity of your condition, your income 
could typically increase by between 1% and 29%...
I disagree with Mr Ws representative when it says this guidance was vague. And I dont 
think references to the minimum fund value were misleading, as it argued. It follows that Ive 
concluded Prudential provided Mr W with enough clear information for him to be able to 
make an informed decision in 2010.
RFS says that Mr Ws former employer wouldve held records about his medical condition 
and absence from work. It said, had his OPS remained the responsibility of his employer it 
wouldve automatically considered his health at retirement.
It was Mr Ws employer and/or the trustees of his OPS that used his preserved pension to 
buy a deferred annuity with Prudential. In doing so these parties wouldve had certain 
obligations to fulfil including making arrangements, consultation and communicating 
effectively with Mr W. These are not matters which Prudential was responsible for as the 
scheme administrator and later, pension provider.
RFS has also made reference to a form on file which records Mr W was in good health. Its 
not clear whether this data was collected from him, or if it was an assumption used by 
Prudential in the generation of the quotation pack it issued. Ultimately, I dont think this is 
telling evidence for the reasons Ive already set out about the information he was provided 
with about his options prior to deciding how he wanted to proceed.While I dont have all the information Id like about Mr Ws pension arrangements, Im mindful 
we are not dealing with a situation when hed built up a personal pension plan fund and was 
then shopping around on the open market to buy an annuity that represented best value and 
provided all the features he wanted.
Mr W was sent a letter, it seems by the trustees of his pension scheme, dated 29 April 2010. 
The letter was in response an enquiry hed made. It explained his preserved pension 
benefits had been bought-out with Prudential. And that a deferred annuity contract had 
been put in place for him. It confirmed he would need to deal with Prudential to claim his 
pension.
As I mentioned earlier, it seems that Mr Ws annuity had certain guarantees built in which 
were probably required by his OPS scheme trustees and/or his employer. If so, perhaps this 
was in order that his deferred annuity contract replicated or delivered certain benefits that 
were important features of his former pension scheme.
It wouldnt be reasonable for me to uphold Mr Ws case against Prudential based on the 
information available. From what Ive seen, its more likely than not done everything that was 
required of it at the time of the events complained about.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman