DRN-3096015
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Acromas Insurance Company Limited unfairly turned down a 
claim on his breakdown repair cover (BRC) policy.
Reference to Acromas includes its agents.
What happened
Mr As car broke down on 13 December 2020, a Sunday. He called out a mobile patrol which 
diagnosed a fault with the cars EGR valve. The patrol noticed that the car was running OK 
but advised Mr A to take his car to a garage.
Mr A said he contacted a garage the next day. He said the garage told him he couldn't book 
his car in until 5 January 2021. Mr A took his car to the garage on that day and, after it had 
been repaired, claimed for the costs of those on his BRC policy. Acromas turned down the 
claim. It later explained that was because it didn't think the breakdown meant that Mr A 
couldn't have continued his journey safely after it.
Mr A brought his complaint about that to us. I issued a provisional decision on 
23 September 2021. For ease Ive copied the relevant extract below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As policy says that if certain terms are met Acromas will cover the costs of repairs up to 
£535. But in order to be covered the breakdown needed to have been attended to by a 
mobile patrol and prevented the car from continuing its journey safely. In this case Mr As car 
did breakdown and he called out a roadside assistance patrol to help him. He told the 
patrolman that his car had lost power (whats known as going into limp mode). He also said 
the car had suffered a similar problem some weeks earlier which a garage had repaired. 
Mr A said it was this breakdown that led to the garage repairing his car in January 2021.
In order to be covered by his policy, the fault causing the breakdown needed to prevent Mr A 
from continuing his journey safely. But in the circumstances of this case I don't think it did. 
I've seen the patrolmans report. That says that, at the time he attended, Mr As car was 
showing some fault codes for the EGR valve but that the car itself was running OK. So it 
seems likely that Mr As car had an intermittent fault that was occasionally causing it to go 
into limp mode. And, while there may be situations when it wouldn't be safe to drive a car in 
those circumstances, I don't think those applied here.
I also note that between the patrolman looking at Mr As car and his garage repairing it, the 
car had travelled around 300 miles. So Mr A clearly thought the car was safe to drive during 
that period or otherwise I doubt he would have travelled so far in it. I do understand that this 
was the Christmas period and Mr A needed to remain mobile. But if his car wasn't safe to 
drive, I doubt he would have continued to drive it over those sorts of distances.
Mr A said that neither the patrolman nor his garage told him not to drive the car. I'm not 
assessing what the garage did. And I'm aware that any car which goes into limp mode will 
usually remain driveable for short journeys at low speeds. But Ive also noted that the 
patrolmans report says (my emphasis in bold):
To make a Parts and Garage Cover [BRC] claim you must arrange for the vehicle to be 
taken to a garage without delay if it cannot be fixed at the roadside. Any delay or continued 
use will affect the validity of a potential claim. Any repairs need to be authorised prior to 
repair.
So while the patrolman didn't tell Mr A not to use his car, he was warned that continuing to 
use it might affect any claim he made in the future. I understand that Mr A doesn't feel its his 
fault that the garage couldn't repair his car straightaway, especially as this was a period 
when much of the country was in lockdown. But most garages weren't prevented from 
working because of the lockdown. And Mr A could have taken his car to another garage had 
he wished to do so. I note that the garage that had repaired his car previously was different 
to the one that carried out the repairs leading to his claim. So, it's not the case that he only 
had one garage that he trusted. So, if he couldn't book his car in with his first choice of 
garage, and his car wasn't safe to drive, he could have tried to find another. But I've seen no 
evidence that he did so.
Acromas has argued that continuing to use his car would have caused further damage to it. 
Thats certainly a possibility but we don't have enough evidence to determine whether or not 
thats the case. But Mr As policy also says that, in order to make a successful claim, before 
starting any repairs to his car, Acromas would need to authorise those. But Mr A didn't ask 
Acromas for authorisation, and he only claimed on his policy after his garage had completed 
the work. Thats significant because, not every fault/repair will be covered by Mr As policy. 
And the policy entitled Acromas to assess whether the repairs fell under the policy terms 
before authorising the work. But Mr A didn't ask Acromas for authorisation, and as such I 
think he prejudiced its position to determine whether or not the repair should be covered by 
the policy.
In summary, Mr A was able to use his car to drive safely for around 300 miles before he had 
it repaired. He continued to use it even though the patrolmans report warned him that to do 
so could affect any future claim. Also he didn't seek Acromas authorisation before going 
ahead with the repair. And in those circumstances I think it was reasonable for Acromas to  
turn down Mr As claim.
Developments 
Acromas accepted my provisional decision. Mr A didn't make any further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr A nor Acromas objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to amend 
it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman