DRN-1273129
The complaint
Mr S has complained that he was pressured to take out a term assurance policy when he 
applied for a mortgage with HSBC UK Bank Plc.
What happened
Mr S and his wife Mrs S took out a joint mortgage with HSBC in August 2005. At the same 
time the HSBC adviser recommended Mr S take out a term assurance policy to protect the 
borrowing in the event of his death.
Mr S complained in 2019 after hearing about the mis-selling of payment protection insurance 
(PPI). He said he hadnt wanted to take out any insurance and was pressured to do so by 
the HSBC adviser.
HSBC didnt agree the policy had been mis-sold. It said Mr Ss mortgage offer showed he 
didnt need to take out any insurance through HSBC and there wasnt any evidence to show 
hed been pressured to take it out.
Mr S remained unhappy and referred his complaint to our service. He said that the adviser 
initially recommended he take out a policy that wouldve cost him over £400 per month which 
was unaffordable. Mr S said when he said no to this, the cover was reduced. He thought this 
showed the pressure the adviser placed on him to take out the cover.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She explained to Mr S that the policy wasnt a 
form of PPI. She said she thought the evidence from the time of the sale showed the policy 
was optional and she wasnt persuaded that Mr S had been pressured to take it out. Mr S 
didnt agree. He said he hadnt asked for the cover and it was forced on him. He said he 
thought the mortgage offer would be withdrawn if he didnt agree to take the cover.
As no agreement could be reached, Ive been asked to provide a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I realise this will be a disappointment to Mr S, so Ill 
explain why.
Mr S says he didnt ask for the policy during the meeting with the adviser as he and Mrs S 
were there to take out a mortgage. But I would generally expect a mortgage applicants 
insurance needs to be reviewed when taking on new borrowing. The fact find completed by 
the adviser at the time the advice was given shows Mr and Mrs S were taking on a new debt 
of £215,000 and had children who were financially dependent on them. So, I think it was 
reasonable for the adviser to ensure Mr and Mrs S had thought about how theyd repay this 
if either of them died or became seriously ill.The fact find also shows that Mr S didnt have any life or critical illness cover in place. Mr S 
was self-employed, so he also wouldnt have had any employee benefits to fall back on. So, 
I think a clear need was established for a policy providing Mr S with life and critical illness 
cover for the full mortgage amount and term.
Mr S says he feels he didnt have a choice in taking out the policy as he thought the 
mortgage wouldnt be approved unless he took out the cover. But having reviewed a copy of 
the mortgage offer, this makes it clear that Mr S wasnt obliged to take out any insurance 
cover through HSBC. It also says the only insurance he had to take out (through HSBC or 
any other provider) was buildings insurance. If Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage application being 
approved was dependent on them taking life and critical illness cover, I think this wouldve 
been expressed as a condition in the mortgage offer. As it wasnt, I think Mr S wouldve 
known the insurance recommended to him was optional.
I can also see that the adviser recommended Mr and Mrs S take out mortgage repayments 
protector  a form of PPI. But the recommendation letter shows they turned this down as 
they wanted to give further thought to it at that time. I think this further demonstrates Mr and 
Mrs S knew they could turn down any recommendations made to them.
The policy recommended to Mr S included life and critical illness cover. However, this 
wouldve cost him over £400 per month. So, Mr S turned down the recommendation for 
critical illness cover and proceeded with a policy providing life cover only. I think this also 
shows Mr S understood the optional nature of the cover.
Mr S thinks this shows that the adviser placed him under pressure to take out a policy with 
HSBC. He says even though he said no to the policy recommended to him, the adviser 
reduced the cover to persuade him to accept it. Ive thought about this carefully, but it isnt 
enough to persuade me that Mr S was pressured to take this policy out. I think he wouldve 
known the policy was optional and that he could turn down the recommendation if he didnt 
want to proceed. And I think the fact that he turned down the critical illness element of the 
recommendation shows he knew he didnt have to agree to it if he didnt want the cover.
On balance, I think Mr S accepted the recommendation as he understood the need to 
protect such a large debt with life cover. For this reason, I dont think the policy was mis-
sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision 
before 23 December 2019.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2019.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman