DRN-4035707
The complaint
Mr I has complained that Metro Bank PLC failed to refund transactions he made to a gaming 
website which was acting illegally within the UK.
What happened
Mr I had a gaming account with an online casino that was based outside of the UK. Over the 
course of two months towards the end of 2021, Mr I deposited and lost, a considerable 
amount of money gambling through the casino. He contacted the Gambling Commission to 
ask for help as he had previously registered with GAMSTOP and had thought this would 
prevent him from being able to gamble online. 
The Gambling Commission explained that while registered GAMSTOP users were unable to 
gamble with UK based gambling merchants, the same restrictions didnt apply with 
merchants registered overseas. This was because overseas merchants werent licenced by 
the UK Gambling Commission and were effectively trading illegally within the UK. It 
suggested Mr I contact his bank to ask if it could refund any of the transactions via a 
chargeback request.
Mr I then contacted Metro Bank and explained the above to it. Metro told Mr I that in this 
instance, because he had confirmed hed made all of the transactions to the overseas casino 
himself, it was unable to request a chargeback on any of the money hed spent under the 
chargeback rules. Further it said that because Mr I had told it that he had placed the bets 
himself, it was satisfied that there was no fraud on his account and therefore that the 
transactions were legitimate and not ones it could refund.
Mr I disagreed with Metro Banks response and brought his complaint to our service. He 
remained of the opinion that the transactions were fraudulent on the basis that the casino 
was acting illegally within the UK. He questioned why the bank hadnt queried the value of 
the transactions leaving his account, as they were extremely high and in fact totalled more 
than his annual take home salary. He said hes been left with a £20,000 debt which he thinks 
Metro couldve prevented him from accruing by stopping his gambling transactions at the 
time. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Is complaint already. He found that Metro hadnt 
acted unfairly when it refused the chargeback request as Mr Is transactions werent eligible 
for that kind of refund. However he did think that by November 2021 Mr I was using his 
account in a very unusual way and that this shouldve been flagged on the banks system as 
a potential indicator of vulnerability. As such he thought that Metro Bank had missed 
opportunities to contact Mr I and check he was comfortable with the amount of money he 
was spending. For this failure he suggested Metro Bank pay Mr I £300 compensation.
Metro Bank accepted the investigators view, but Mr I didnt. He said that he thought it was 
unfair that Metro Bank would essentially only be asked to pay 2% of his overall losses. He 
believed that had it contacted him in November 2021 he wouldve stopped gambling and so 
he thought it should cover all his losses from that point. He asked for an ombudsman to 
review his complaint again and so its been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the findings of our investigator and wont be asking Metro Bank 
to cover an of Mr Is gambling losses. I know this will be distressing news for Mr I and so I 
want to explain why I have reached the outcome I have. 
Mr I says that the online casino he was using was acting illegally within the UK. This is 
because it wasnt licensed by the Gambling Commission to operate within the UK. As such 
he has equated it to a fraudulent or scam website. While I understand why Mr I has reached 
this conclusion its important to clarify what banks mean when they talk about fraud and 
scams as I think Mr I and Metro Bank have been using similar words, but in different 
contexts, and that has added some confusion to Mr Is complaint. 
Mr I believes that the transactions were fraudulent because the casino he was using didnt 
have a licence to operate in the UK and as such it was acting fraudulently. However, when 
banks use terms like fraud more often than not its in situations where a third party has 
accessed a customers account and is spending or transferring their money without their 
knowledge or consent. In Mr Is case because he was the one spending the money on the 
websites it said that the transactions werent fraudulent. Because it wasnt focusing on what 
the money was spent on, but rather, who spent it. 
Mr I confirmed he had spent the money himself and had received the goods (in this case 
the bets he placed) and so it couldnt complete a chargeback on these transactions. This is 
because chargebacks are only available in situations where consumers didnt receive the 
goods they paid for, or there was something wrong with the goods, or they were charged the 
wrong amount, or someone else used their card without their knowledge or consent. None of 
these applied to Mr Is complaint and so it couldnt process a chargeback request for him. 
In regard to whether or not the actual online casino was operating legally, or illegally, within 
the UK this isnt something the bank is required to consider. Mr I paid for goods (ie bets) and 
received them, which is evidenced by the fact that when his bets won, he received his 
winnings into his account from the casino. I dont think Metro is at fault for not realising Mr I 
had linked his account with an online casino that was based outside the UK.  
Its unfortunate that the Gambling Commission expressly mentioned chargebacks in its 
response to Mr Is complaint as I agree it was never a viable option for him to make a 
successful chargeback request in the circumstances of his complaint. I dont think Metro 
Bank acted unreasonably or unfairly when it told him it couldnt complete a chargeback 
request for him. 
Our investigator did think that Metro Bank shouldve picked up on the unusual activity on Mr 
Is account and checked that he wasnt experiencing any problems with the volume of 
transactions he was completing. I agree with this. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
has previously released guidance on how financial companies, such as banks, can support 
vulnerable consumers. And this includes monitoring accounts for unusual activity. I note that 
Mr I wasnt using his Metro account at all in the first half of 2021, and then suddenly began 
transferring in large amounts of money into the account and then spending this at online 
casinos. 
I do think these transactions shouldve been flagged on the banks systems as unusual and if 
not linked to fraud then still worth further investigation and consideration. In other words, it 
shouldve prompted the bank to contact Mr I to make sure he was comfortable with the transactions and volume of money coming in and out of the account was not something that 
was causing him harm. 
However, there is no guarantee that interaction between Metro Bank and Mr I in November 
2021 wouldve prevented him from losing the money that he did. I know Mr I is of the opinion 
that he wouldve stopped gambling if the bank had queried his spending with him at the time, 
but I have no evidence to rely on to say this is the case. So, it would be unreasonable for me 
to hold the bank directly liable for his losses on this basis. 
Which is why I think the £300 suggested by the investigator is reasonable in the 
circumstances. This is in recognition of the fact Metro shouldve contacted Mr I in November 
2021 and failed to. It should not be viewed as a partial refund of his gambling losses as I 
dont think Metro is liable for those. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above Metro Bank PLC should pay Mr I £300 compensation for its 
failure to contact him in November 2021. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Mr Is complaint against Metro Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman