DRN-3172362
The complaint
Mr P complains that WPS Financial Group Limited (WPS) and True Potential Wealth 
Management LLP (TP) advised him to transfer his Defined Benefit pension with British Steel 
(BSPS) to a personal pension. He says this was unsuitable advice and they didnt act in his 
best interest.
This decision only deals with the complaint against WPS.
What happened
Mr P contacted WPS in summer 2017 as he wanted advice on his BSPS pension. He says 
he had been a customer of their firm before. WPS completed a fact find and an attitude to 
risk questionnaire and Mr P says WPS talked about the returns he could have in a personal 
pension. However, they then referred Mr P to TP to provide the transfer advice.
Mr P met with TP shortly after and they subsequently recommended Mr P to transfer his 
BSPS pension into a personal pension. The suitability report recorded TP would become the 
ongoing adviser firm on Mr Ps new pension plan. However, it seems WPS was the ongoing 
adviser until 2020.
Mr Ps representative says there was a joint venture between the two adviser firms and
WPS is liable for Mr Ps losses he incurred by transferring valuable benefits. WPS say they
purely introduced Mr P to TP and didnt provide him with any advice.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. He didnt think there was 
evidence WPS had advised on the transfer and he didnt think that they werent responsible 
for any losses he suffered in this respect. Mr Ps representative disagreed and so the 
complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps representatives say TP and WPS should both be liable for his losses. They
say both firms advised him to transfer and there was a joint venture between the firms. They
say WPS failed to act in Mr Ps best interest and treated him unfairly by knowingly
collaborating in a manner that led to unsuitable advice.
I appreciate that Mr P is unhappy that he was advised to transfer out of his BSPS scheme,
however the firm responsible for this advice is TP. They had the relevant permissions and 
provided the formal recommendation to transfer out of his DB scheme. They did a transfer 
analysis and issued a suitability report to Mr P. 
I dont know what exactly was discussed between WPS and Mr P. His representative says
they verbally advised Mr P and Mr P says WPS discussed the personal pension and its 
advantages with him. 
From what Ive seen all communications regarding the transfer happened between TP and
Mr P once WPS had referred him. I did consider that there was obviously an introducer 
relationship between the parties. However, this isnt evidence in my view that WPS gave Mr 
P advice.
It was ultimately TPs obligation to provide Mr P with independent and suitable advice.
And if it wasnt suitable for Mr P to transfer TP should have clearly told him so and provided 
reasons why. If they had done so, I dont think any discussions with WPS would have likely 
made Mr P go against this advice.
In summary, Im satisfied it was TPs positive recommendation that caused Mr P to
transfer and that they are fully responsible for any losses caused by the unsuitable transfer. 
Ive upheld the complaint against TP in full. 
I dont think Mr Ps potential losses here are caused by WPSs actions and so I dont 
consider it fair or reasonable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman