DRN-4373403
The complaint
Mr E complains that BUPA Insurance Limited declined his private medical insurance claim.
What happened
Mr E is a member of his employers group private medical insurance policy insured by 
BUPA. The policy started on 1 March 2022 and renewed in March 2023. The policy is on a 
five year moratorium underwriting basis.
In March 2023 Mr E made a pre-authorisation claim to see a specialist about his lipoma. 
BUPA declined the claim. It said the information from Mr Es GPs showed hed been 
diagnosed with a lipoma in December 2017, which had been increasing in size and hed 
seen GPs in November 2022 and February 2023 about removal of the lipoma. BUPAs final 
response letter to Mr E said his lipoma was a pre-existing condition which wasnt covered by 
the policy terms. 
Mr E complained to us that BUPA had unfairly declined the claim. In summary he said:
BUPAs letter contained date errors. It said the policy started in March 2023, but it 
was March 2022. It also said he was diagnosed with lipoma in December 2017 
whereas his diagnosis was in January 2017 so its calculation of the five year period 
was wrong.
He saw a GP in November 2022 who had made a referral for lipoma. He had a 
phone, not a face to face, appointment with a GP in February 2023 to get a more 
detailed referral as BUPA told him a specific referral addressed to the right specialist 
was needed. So his February 2023 conversation with the GP wasnt medical advice.
BUPA was wrong to say that just having the lump was a symptom of lipoma, he had 
an asymptomatic lipoma until September 2022 when it started to cause back pain. So 
he had the first symptom of his lipoma after the policy started. He provided various 
definitions of symptoms which he said supported his point.
As hed had no advice, or symptoms, or treatment for his lipoma in the five years 
before the policy started his claim was covered by the policy terms.
He wants BUPA to pay the claim, compensation for his time and inconvenience hed 
spent in making the complaint and compensation for his unnecessary pain and 
suffering caused by it not paying for him to see a consultant and having the treatment 
required.
During our investigation BUPA said that whilst the lipoma diagnosis in January 2017 was 
over five years from the policy start date, the lump, which was a symptom of the lipoma 
condition, was still present within the relevant five year period and was a moratorium 
condition as detailed under the policy terms.
Our investigator said BUPA had reasonably declined the claim. 
Mr E disagrees and wants an ombudmans decision. Mr E said our investigators 
consideration of his complaint was unfair because our investigator had:
Accepted the policy definition of moratorium condition but ignored the explanation of 
a pre-existing condition in the policy information and BUPAs final response letter. 
There was discrepancy and lack of clarity in BUPAs policy information especially as 
the moratorium condition information was in smaller print than the other relevant 
wording.
Referred to the words in the policys glossary as Definitions whereas BUPA had 
used the word Meanings. Mr E said a definition makes a meaning formal, distinct 
and clear and the investigators use of the word definition had been used to his 
disadvantage.
Hadnt addressed that BUPA got the date of his lipoma diagnosis wrong or that his 
lipoma had been asymptomatic. Also investigator rejected the complaint on a 
different issue than BUPA used in its final response letter which meant BUPAs 
decline of the claim was unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the points Mr E has made but I wont address all his points
in my findings. Ill focus on the reasons why Ive made my decision and the key points which
I think are relevant to the outcome of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
I think BUPA fairly and reasonably declined the claim. Ill explain why.
The policy terms under the Information on claiming section say:
If you are a moratorium member
As a moratorium member you are not covered for treatment of any moratorium 
conditions. Each time you make a claim you must provide us with information so we 
can confirm whether your proposed treatment is covered under your benefits.
Before you arrange any consultation or treatment call us and we will send you a pre- 
treatment form to complete. You will need to provide details of the history of the 
medical condition you are claiming for, including information that you will need to ask 
your GP or consultant for...
The policy Glossary section says a moratorium condition means:
any disease, illness or injury or related condition, whether diagnosed or not, which you:
-received medication for
-asked for or received, medical advice or treatment for
-experienced symptoms of, or
-were to the best of your knowledge aware existed 
in your moratorium qualifying period immediately before your moratoria start date. By a related condition we mean any symptom, disease, illness or injury which 
reasonable medical opinion considers to be associated with another symptom, disease, 
illness or injury.
The policy glossary says moratorium qualifying period means:
the number of years stated in the Further details section of your membership 
certificate as being your moratorium qualifying period.
Mr Es membership certificate under Further details says Your moratorium qualifying period 
is five years.
The policy glossary says moratoria start date means:
if you are a moratorium member, the date you started your continuous period of 
cover under the scheme. This is: 
 the date shown as Moratoria start date on your membership certificate
Mr Es membership certificate says Moratoria start date 1 March 2022.
BUPAs final response letter contained the wrong date of Mr Es lipoma diagnosis. The GPs 
evidence shows Mr E was diagnosed with lipoma on his back in January 2017, which is 
more than five years before Mr Es cover under the group policy started on 1 March 2022. 
But BUPA says even though the correct diagnosis date of Mr Es lipoma was over five years 
from the policy and moratorium start date the lipoma still isnt covered under the policy terms 
as a pre-existing condition. And it also thought Mr E had a moratorium condition, not covered 
by the policy terms (which is why our investigator and now I have considered whether BUPA 
reasonably also thought that Mr E had a moratorium condition).
I think BUPA reasonably considered Mr Es lipoma on his back to be a moratorium condition 
as set out under the policy terms. The GPs overall evidence says the lipoma was there in 
January 2017 and has increased in size. The November 2022 referral letter says the lipoma 
has increased to the size of a tennis ball causing Mr E discomfort. The February 2023 
referral letter says the lipoma has been:
Gradually increasing in size but has significantly increased in size in the last six 
months, painful in sitting and sleeping on that side.
I think its reasonable for BUPA to understand that as there had been a gradual increase in 
size of the lipoma, to be the size of a tennis ball by November 2022, its probable that Mr E 
noticed at least some of the size increase within the five years before the policy started. And 
even if all the lumps growth happened after 1 March 2022 Mr E was aware he had the 
condition from the January 2017 diagnosis and during the five years before the policy 
started. Which means Mr Es lipoma was a moratorium condition as set out in the policy 
terms.
The policy excludes claims in relation to moratorium conditions saying:
Exclusion 33 Moratorium conditions
For moratorium members we do not pay for treatment of a moratorium condition, or a 
disease, illness or injury that results from or is related to a moratorium condition.Mr Es group policy has an exception to that exclusion which is shown on his membership 
certificate:
Under Exclusion 33 Moratorium conditions, an additional Exception is added as 
follows: We pay for treatment of a moratorium condition if at any time after your start 
date you do not receive any medication for, ask for and/or receive any medical 
advice or treatment for, and/or experience symptoms of that moratorium condition for 
a continuous period of two years cover under your scheme. Your moratorium 
qualifying period is five years.
That exception only applies if after the policy started on 1 March 2022 Mr E hadnt received 
medication, asked for and/or received any medical advice or treatment for, and/or 
experienced symptoms of his lipoma for a continuous period of two years, which would be 
until 1 March 2024.
I think BUPA reasonably considered that Mr E had asked for and/or received medical 
advice about his lipoma within two years of the policy starting when he consulted the GP in 
November 2022 about the pain from his lipoma. The November 2022 referral letter shows 
Mr E spoke to the GP about the pain and his wish to be referred for consideration of removal 
of the lipoma. And Mr Es conversation with another GP in February 2023 when they refined 
the referral letter was part of asking for medical advice for the condition. 
So Im satisfied that BUPA reasonably considered the exception to the general exclusion for 
claims for a moratorium condition didnt apply to Mr Es circumstances. That means BUPA 
could fairly and reasonably decline the claim as the lipoma on Mr Es back was a moratorium 
condition.
BUPA raised the moratorium condition as being another reason it could decline the claim 
during our investigation. Its final response letter to Mr E was about declining the claim due to 
his lipoma being a pre-existing medical condition, not covered by the policy terms. Mr E says 
due to how the policy documents are set out it wouldnt be fair for BUPA to rely on the 
moratorium conditions exclusion to decline the claim. And he disagrees that he had a pre-
existing medical condition. So Ive considered those matters.
BUPAs final response letter refers to the information given in A quick guide to rolling 
moratorium underwriting document which says:
Rolling Moratorium Underwriting
Your company has chosen this type of underwriting for your policy. This means that 
you didnt have to tell us about your medical history when you first joined us. Instead, 
well ask you about this each time you come to make a claim, so that we can confirm 
if your condition is new or pre-existing
Pre-existing conditions
Youre covered for conditions that are eligible under the rules of your scheme.
Any conditions where youve had:
advice or
symptoms or
treatment (including medication)
for in the five years before joining us are considered pre-existing and not covered.
If, after joining us, youve not had any advice, symptoms or treatment (including 
medication) for two years, well no longer consider this condition pre-existing and 
start to cover it.The policy glossary doesnt give a meaning for symptom. Ive considered the examples of 
definition of symptom that Mr Es provided. Ive seen many more examples which generally 
say in effect that a symptom is a sign of a condition or disease. Ive also considered the 
information Mr Es provided which he says shows most lipomas are asymptomatic, it being a 
fatty lump which doesnt usually need treatment, as was his lump until September 2022 
when it caused him pain.
I think BUPA could reasonably consider that the lump was a symptom of Mr Es lipoma, 
which he had in the five years before the policy started. The evidence from the GP in the 
claim paperwork shows the symptom of lipoma was the lump found in January 2017. The 
lump remained during the relevant five year period. As Ive said above I think BUPA can 
fairly understand the lump probably increased in size during that time. But even if not the 
lump was still a sign that Mr E had a lipoma. The lump may not have given Mr E pain until 
September 2022 but before then the lump was still a symptom of the lipoma. Im satisfied 
BUPA reasonably considered Mr Es lipoma to be a pre-existing condition.
Mr E continued to have the symptom of lipoma in the two years after the policy started. He 
also took medical advice within the two years after the policy started about action to take for 
potentially having the lump removed. Im satisfied that BUPA reasonably considered that 
Mr Es lipoma on his back was a pre-existing condition and not covered by the policy terms.
Even if I thought the policy information Mr E was given about pre-existing medical conditions 
was more prominent and clearer than the information about the moratorium conditions it 
doesnt alter my decision as I think BUPA fairly and reasonably declined the claim for both 
reasons.
BUPA told Mr E it will assess whether the lipomas which have appeared on his shoulder and 
ribcage are eligible for treatment if his GP can give further information about when those 
symptoms began, which is fair of BUPA. Mr E will need to contact BUPA direct if he wants to 
take that matter further. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman