DRN-3798347
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Amtrust Europe Limited declined his legal expenses insurance (LEI) 
claim. He is also unhappy that Amtrust has asked him to prove his claim couldnt be dealt 
with by the main policy and with how his claim was handled. 
All references to Amtrust includes its agents.
What happened
Mr P contacted Amtrust as he wanted to pursue a claim in connection with harassment by 
his neighbours and damage caused to his property following his neighbours carrying out 
work to their property. This damage included paint damage to cars and wheelie bins. Mr P 
says that when his neighbours had their roof replaced he was subjected to five months of 
hell. Relations with his neighbours have been poor for some time and Mr P says his 
neighbours son was cautioned by the police following threats to Mr P and that his 
neighbours are racist and hateful.
When Amtrust received details of the claim it pointed out to Mr P that under the terms of the 
policy: there was no cover where a claim was for loss or damage where that loss or damage 
was insured under any other insurance.
Amtrust therefore asked Mr P to check with his buildings and contents insurer whether the 
damage that had occurred was covered under that policy. It has said that if the household 
insurer says it will not provide cover for the damage element of the claim it will reconsider 
whether or not Mr P is covered for that under the LEI.
With regard to Mr Ps claim concerning harassment, Amtrust said this wasnt covered under 
the policy. It did say Mr P should let it know if trespass was still occurring and if it was it 
would look at whether this was covered. 
The investigator didnt recommend upholding this complaint. He felt Amtrust had acted within 
the policy terms and conditions.
Mr P didnt agree with the investigators view. He said he had received a six-page summary 
of the insurance cover but hadnt received in the post a copy of the policy document. He also 
made various complaints about the home and contents insurer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to make clear this is a decision about Amtrust. This is not a decision about the actions 
of the house and contents insurer. If Mr P wants a decision about that insurer he will need to 
ask for a separate decision. This is also not a decision about the law firm Mr P contacted. I 
do not have the power to make a decision about law firms. They are subject to a different 
ombudsman scheme.
I am sorry to hear that Mr P has experienced harassment from his neighbours and he has 
my sincere sympathy in this matter. But having looked at the actions of Amtrust I cant agree 
with him that I should uphold his complaint. Ive explained why below.
The summary for Mr Ps policy says it doesnt cover any costs covered by another policy. 
This isnt an unusual clause in an insurance policy. It wasnt buried in the small print it was 
included on the first page of the two page summary about the LEI cover or on page five of 
the six page summary of the insurance on offer when Mr P took out his home and contents 
insurance. 
The policy itself says: There is no cover for:-
a) Claims over loss or damage where that loss or damage is insured under any other 
insurance.

I think therefore Mr P had enough information before he took out his policy or renewed it to 
know that in the event of him making a claim on his LEI that he may be asked to make sure 
he wasnt covered elsewhere and if he was that he might not be covered under the LEI. I 
dont think it was therefore wrong of Amtrust to ask him to make these enquiries before 
looking further at his claim regarding property damage. I also dont think it was wrong of 
Amtrust to decline to make these enquires itself.
Mr P also claimed he was being harassed. Looking at the summary of the insurance 
provided to Mr P, I dont think it would be reasonable to conclude that he would be covered 
under the LEI policy for a harassment claim as harassment isnt one of the sections listed. 
Mr P has told us that he was harassed by his neighbours son prior to the more recent 
incidents so I dont think it was unreasonable to expect that if cover for harassment was 
important to him that he would check to see if this cover was included.
 
Mr P says he has never received a policy document in the post. I think if he didnt want to 
view his policy online it would be reasonable to expect him to ask to receive a copy.
Having looked at Mr Ps policy I am content that a claim for harassment is not covered under 
the policy. 
Mr P has complained about the timeliness of responses and their completeness. I agree the 
responses could have been quicker or fuller but overall, I think Amtrusts responses were 
acceptable.
So, while I remain very sympathetic to Mr P I am afraid I cannot uphold his complaint.
Finally, I would say that I appreciate Mr P asked to speak to me before I made this decision. 
I considered this carefully, but I do think that I had the information I needed to make my 
decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 Nicola Wood
Ombudsman