DRN-3176239
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs handling of a claim 
theyve made on a home insurance policy.
While Mr and Mrs K are jointly named as policyholders, the overwhelming majority of contact 
with RSA (and our service) has been from Mr K. So where I refer to Mr K within this decision, 
this includes Mrs K. A surveyor working with Mr and Mrs K has also been in contact on 
occasion directly with RSA. For ease of reference, where I refer to Mr and Mrs K within this 
decision, this includes this surveyor whos acting on their behalf.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K insure their home with RSA. They made a claim on their policy following a leak 
at the property. RSA accepted the claim was covered.
Mr and Mrs K have complained about several different aspects of the way the claim has 
been handled. The details of these complaints are well known to both parties and I dont 
intend to repeat these within the decision. The complaint as referred to our service can be 
summarised as, in effect, that Mr K doesnt believe that RSA has paid as much as it should 
have under the policy.
They disagree with the amount paid in settlement of the claim, how its calculated these 
amounts and the amount paid for alternative accommodation while repairs were carried out. 
RSA didnt accept its approach to the claim had been flawed, but did say the claim should 
have been handled more effectively, and offered £850 compensation to recognise this.
Mr K didnt accept this and referred their complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
think that RSA needed to do any more than it already had done. As Mr K didnt agree, the 
complaint has come to me to make a final decision.
My provisional decisions
Ive previously issued two provisional decisions on this complaint. These have been 
received, and responded to, by both parties and the contents of them are well known to them 
both. 
In my first provisional decision, I was minded to uphold elements of Mr and Mrs Ks 
complaint around the amount RSA had paid Mr and Mrs K in settlement of the claim and 
believed that additional compensation should be paid to them. I didnt consider that RSA 
should be required to cover the cost of items which had been damaged during the course of 
repairs to the property, or make any additional payments in respect of alternative 
accommodation.
In my second provisional decision, I considered that, on balance, RSAs approach to making 
the settlement to Mr and Mrs K had been reasonable and so didnt think that additional 
payments should be made to them. I was also minded to say that the compensation amount 
paid already had been reasonable. I didnt change my opinion regarding payments for 
additional accommodation or damaged items.
The responses to my second provisional decision
RSA didnt raise any further points after the second provisional decision. 
Mr K said he considered the first provisional decision more accurately reflected his losses, 
although he remained of the view that RSA should be required to pay for the damaged items 
and make a further payment in respect of alternative accommodation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his most recent responses to my second provisional decision, Mr K has raised a number 
of points. Im grateful for his responses and know from his correspondence with both our 
service and RSA how strongly he feels about these matters and, even if my response 
doesnt address these individually, Ive considered the points hes raised carefully. My 
decision focuses on whether RSAs actions were appropriate.
Mr K has raised a number of issues, which I think can be fairly categorised as:
The amount paid as a cash settlement and extent of repairs covered by RSA.
RSAs liability for alternative accommodation.
RSAs liability for items damaged during the repairs.
Whether RSA should pay further compensation.
Ill outline my findings on these points separately.
The cash settlement amount and extent of repairs
In my second provisional decision I concluded that RSA shouldnt be asked to increase the 
settlement it made to Mr and Mrs K, or cover the costs of additional works beyond what was 
originally included in the scope of works. In respect of the cash settlement, I concluded that 
during the course of correspondence with Mr K, RSA had made multiple offers to have the 
works carried out by its own contractors or to make a cash settlement. It had clearly 
explained that any cash settlement would be based on what it would pay its own contractors 
for the works. Mr K had not agreed to either of these options and so RSA had made the 
decision to make a cash settlement. I thought that in doing so it had acted reasonably, and 
that the basis for its settlement was fair.
Mr Ks response to this referred to the policy terms and conditions which said that only RSA 
could determine how a claim was settled. I dont think that RSA did anything wrong in 
seeking to find out his preferred option before making a settlement, but in any case it seems 
that by imposing the settlement on Mr and Mrs K, as it eventually did, it acted in line with the 
conditions referred to by Mr K.
It isnt disputed that a number of additional works were carried out beyond the original scope 
of works which formed the basis of the settlement to Mr and Mrs K. Mr K says that these 
were required in order to ensure a lasting and effective repair and that the property was 
compliant with building regulations.
In my second provisional decision, I outlined the reasons why I didnt consider that RSA 
should be liable for these works. In summary, I concluded that some of these had been 
notified to RSA prior to the settlement being made, and that its position regarding these additional works had been clearly communicated to Mr K, while others had apparently only 
become apparent during the course of the works and RSA hadnt been afforded the 
opportunity to review these prior to them being carried out. 
I said it was reasonable to expect that, if the works were necessary to carry out a lasting and 
effective repair (which is what RSA is liable for) then it was reasonable to expect that RSA 
should be able to review these prior to them being carried out so it could assess whether it 
would cover them  it wasnt reasonable to carry out the works, either knowing what RSAs 
position was and not providing further evidence to refute that, or without RSA being informed 
of additional works it hadnt previously been informed of, and then expect RSA to cover the 
costs of those additional works.
Mr Ks response to this point appears to focus on when the works were carried out, which 
was during the spring of 2020 when Covid-19 related lockdowns and restrictions were in 
place. He says that RSA werent carrying out visits to properties in this period and so any 
contact with them about additional works wouldnt have resulted in any action by RSA. But 
that in itself isnt enough to say that, on apparently establishing that further works beyond 
what RSA had said it would cover (and had been clear about what it considered to be the 
limit of its liabilities), Mr K had no obligation to inform RSA of this. On being informed of this, 
RSA could have outlined what further information it would require in order to confirm its 
position, sought to have a representative visit the property if it was deemed absolutely 
essential or carried out other enquiries  but I cant see it was ever given the opportunity to 
do so. 
I havent seen anything which supports that RSA were presented evidence which should 
have changed its position. Mr Ks own surveyor has said these works were required but Im 
not persuaded hes independent in this process, as he was appointed by Mr and Mrs K and 
has taken in my opinion a somewhat confrontational approach to his dealings with RSA 
when it has outlined the extent of what its willing to cover, referencing previous occasions 
when hes dealt with insurance companies and saying that the matter may be referred to 
various media outlets if the claim isnt resolved in the way he and Mr and Mrs K would like.
One area which Mr K has made repeated reference to in his correspondence with our 
service, and which he returned to in his response to my second provisional decision was 
around a wooden floor which had been damaged. I previously outlined why I thought 
covering for the partial replacement of the floor including appropriate staining of wooden 
blocks was a reasonable position for RSA to take, as opposed to the full replacement which 
was Mr Ks preferred repair (which then necessitated the taking down and replacement of 
interior walls and a ceiling). 
Mr K has made reference to the wrong type of wood being initially identified as being used 
for the flooring. His focus in the response to my provisional decision remains on this, and I 
assume from this that by extension if the wrong type of wood was originally identified that 
RSAs conclusion that the partial replacement (based on the correct type of wood having 
been identified) cannot be relied on as a lasting and effective repair. For me the question 
remains whether the partial replacement of the floor does constitute a lasting and effective 
repair and nothing Ive seen suggests that it wouldnt be. Mr K references in addition that the 
proposed repair involved staining the wooden blocks to obtain a match with the remaining, 
original floor. He says that the original wood wasnt stained, just sealed. I understand his 
point but the planned repair was to stain the new blocks to obtain a match with the existing 
blocks, not to stain the whole floor. 
The point I made in my second provisional decision remains, however. It seems that Mr K 
was well aware of what RSA was prepared to cover (a partial replacement involving staining 
blocks to achieve a match) but without making an attempt to do this, arranged for the full 
replacement (including the additional works to the walls and ceiling) without establishing that the repair RSA was prepared to cover wouldnt be effective  on the basis that no attempt 
was made to carry out a repair in line with what RSA had provided cover for, then I dont 
think its reasonable to ask RSA to over the full replacement and linked further works.
Alternative accommodation
RSA has paid over £9,000 for alternative accommodation to Mr and Mrs K, intended to allow 
them to stay elsewhere while repairs were carried out to the property. Mr K says that RSA 
should pay a further £9,000 as he and his son had to remain at the property throughout the 
period of the repairs. Mrs K stayed with her mother but they were unable to do the same due 
to the Covid-19 lockdown (Mrs K was with her mother when restrictions came into effect).
The fact remains that the amount paid by RSA was intended to provide for alternative 
accommodation for everyone who was residing at the property. As I said in my second 
previous decision It seems to me that [Mrs K] could have moved out of the property with Mr 
K and they could have paid for alternative accommodation for the period of repairs using the 
funds provided for this by RSA. The family circumstances linked to Covid-19 arent sufficient 
grounds for me to consider asking RSA to make a further payment in respect of alternative 
accommodation. I havent seen any reason for me to change my thinking here  RSA had 
made a reasonable settlement to Mr and Mrs K to allow everyone residing at the property to 
reside elsewhere during the repairs. Thats the extent of its liability.
It also remains my opinion that Mr Ks claim for disruption allowance which hes advanced 
with us should also be unsuccessful. A disruption allowance is intended to be paid to 
someone who remains in a property while repairs are carried out rather than moving into 
alternative accommodation. In this case, Mr K chose to remain at the property while his wife 
was staying elsewhere. He knew RSA had made a payment intended to cover alternative 
accommodation and so it isnt reasonable to ask RSA to make a further payment for the 
disruption he encountered by staying at the property when it had made a payment it 
understood was to cover him to reside elsewhere while repairs were effected.
 
Damaged items
Mr K says that RSA should be liable for items which were damaged during the course of the 
repairs to the property. In effect, he says that windows at the property were required to 
remain open because of the Covid-19 restrictions, allowing more dust in to the property than 
would ordinarily have been there. He says the windows had to stay open because he and his 
son remained at the property which was due to RSAs unfair actions.
In my provisional decisions I concluded that it wouldnt be reasonable to ask RSA to cover 
these costs. In my second provisional decision I outlined the reasons for this:
Theres two reasons why I think that its unreasonable to expect RSA to be liable for this
damage. The first is that Mr K links this to RSA not covering alternative accommodation for
him and his son, requiring him to remain at the property. Ive explained above why this isnt
something I think was unfair on RSAs part. The second is that and damage caused by these
items would seem to me to potentially fall to the contractors who were employed by Mr K  it
would be their responsibility to ensure items at the property were protected, irrespective of
the conditions in which the repairs were being carried out and who was present at the
property during the repairs. This isnt something which falls to RSA.Mr K hasnt advanced any new arguments or provided any new evidence which makes me 
think that I should revisit this conclusion. I dont think its reasonable to link the damage to 
the items to any unfair action of RSA.
Compensation
RSAs previously paid £850 compensation to Mr and Mrs K to recognise where the service it 
provided could have been better. It admitted that there were avoidable delays and 
unnecessary appointments which didnt result in the claim progressing. 
Ive concluded that the elements of the complaint which have been referred to us shouldnt 
be upheld as I considered that RSA acted fairly and reasonably. But I do think that the 
compensation its paid adequately recognises the level of distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr and Mrs K as a result of the delays and poor service they received from RSA.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman