DRN-4056426
The complaint
Mr J complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) wont refund the money he lost when he fell victim 
to a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So rather than repeat them all 
again here, Ill briefly summarise the key points.
In early December 2021, Mr J was called by someone claiming to be from the fraud team of 
a bank he is a customer of (N)  but who, it transpires, was actually a scammer. He tried to 
validate the call by ringing Ns official number. It seems the scammer tricked him by staying 
on the line, so it appeared as though they had picked up the call to that number. They also 
sent texts from a spoofed bank number and created fake records of a safe account and 
fraud refund.
At the scammers behest, Mr J made numerous payments from several bank accounts. This 
included the following payments from his Revolut account:
Date Amount Description
05/12/2021 £21,000.00 Transfer to cryptocurrency
05/12/2021 £19,900.00  Transfer to recipient A
06/12/2021 £9,999.99 Transfer to recipient B
07/12/2021 £10,000.00 Transfer to recipient B
07/12/2021 £9,500.00 Transfer to recipient B
07/12/2021 £9,499.99 Transfer to recipient C
08/12/2021 £5.00 Transfer to recipient D
08/12/2021 £10,000.00 Transfer to recipient D
08/12/2021 £10,001.00 Transfer to recipient E
08/12/2021 £9,640.00 Transfer to recipient E
10/01/2022 -£19,900.00 Refund from recipient A
Total £89,645.98  
It seems Revolut then blocked Mr Js account. He realised hed been scammed a week or so 
later and reported this to Revolut. As shown in the table above, it was able to recover the 
payment of £19,900. But it wasnt able to recover any more, nor did it agree to refund him 
directly.
Unhappy that he hadnt been refunded in full, Mr J referred the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold it. He thought Revolut should have completed further checks given 
the unusual account activity. But he wasnt persuaded it would have succeeded in 
uncovering the scam. Mr J disagreed so the case was passed to me to decide.
I then contacted both parties directly. I asked Mr J where the funds had been transferred 
from, and why he thought further checks would have uncovered the scam. And I asked 
Revolut for more information about the warnings its told us were displayed when Mr J made 
some of these payments, and about the restriction it placed on the account. 
Taking their response into account, I then issued my provisional decision explaining why I 
was minded to uphold the complaint and what I was minded to award: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im minded to 
uphold it  and to direct Revolut to refund 50% of Mr Js loss from the fifth payment 
(£9,500.00 to recipient B) onwards. Ill explain why.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations in force at the time, Revolut is 
expected to execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. Although 
Mr J has explained he was tricked, its clear he requested these payments. So the 
starting position is that he, rather than Revolut, is liable for them.
Revolut also monitors for payments which are out of character for its customer, or 
which otherwise indicate a fraud risk. It takes further action before processing such 
payments  such as displaying a warning or asking the customer about the 
circumstances of the payment. If Revolut ought to have identified a fraud risk but 
failed to intervene appropriately, and that failure led to a fraudulent loss, it might be 
fair to hold it liable.
Revolut has already told us that it displayed warnings to Mr J that some of these 
payments were identified as highly suspicious  although it hasnt, despite my 
request, told me which. So Ive come to my own view on when I think it ought to have 
been concerned.
I think Revolut ought to have identified the first cryptocurrency transfer as suspicious. 
Mr J didnt have a history of dealing in cryptocurrency. And it was ten times higher 
than the next highest transfer made in the 12 months prior.
Although Revolut may have warned Mr J that the payment had been identified as 
highly suspicious, Im not persuaded was a sufficient response to the fraud risk it did, 
or ought to have, identified. Particularly as the warning weve been shown gave no 
context to why it might appear suspicious, or what warning signs Mr J should be 
looking out for.
However, Im not persuaded Revolut ought to have uncovered the scam at this point. 
Ive reviewed a lot of information which satisfies me that he made all these payments 
as part of a safe account scam  including a call he recorded between him and the 
scammer after uncovering what had happened. But thats probably not the type of 
scam Revolut would be most concerned about based on the cryptocurrency payment 
 which tend to me more commonly associated with investment scams.
Having spoken to Mr J about this scam, and having reviewed several other, 
connected cases hes referred to our service, Im also conscious he gave various 
cover stories to banks about the reason for the scam payments. So although Mr J 
says he would have been forthcoming if questioned by Revolut, I struggle to see why 
he would have been, given that he wasnt with the other firms he spoke to. At the 
time, he was taken in by the scam  and hed been warned not to divulge the real 
reason for making the payments.Id also point out that its not very clear whether, and how, the cryptocurrency 
payment was lost to the scammer. From what Mr J has said, I understand he was 
directed to set up cryptocurrency wallets with two different, legitimate providers. But 
Ive not been able to get much information about what happened to the funds once 
they left his Revolut account.
I can also see a substantial payment into Mr Js Revolut account from one of these 
wallets shortly after. That suggests not all the funds from this payment were lost to 
the scammer.
On the same day as the cryptocurrency transfer, Mr J transferred almost £20,000 to 
a new payee. Again, thinking about the account turnover that day as the size of the 
payments, I think Revolut ought to have identified that as suspicious and talked to Mr 
J about what he was doing. But for similar reasons to those set out above, Im not 
persuaded it ought to have succeeded in uncovering the scam at that point. I dont 
think Mr J would have given the real reason for the payment.
However, the next day Mr J transferred almost £10,000 to another new payee 
(recipient B). Followed by two further, large payments to that same recipient the 
following day. And another large payment to another new payee. By the time of the 
third payment to recipient B, I think Revolut ought to have intervened again. It ought 
to have been concerned about the activity, so should have spoken to Mr J to satisfy 
itself on whether all was well.
Although I still dont think Mr J would have been immediately upfront about what he 
was doing, I do think he would likely have been less prepared on what to say 
compared with some payments involving different banks. Thats because it appears 
he received less coaching on what to say. The scammer may have anticipated it was 
unlikely Revolut would speak to him directly about the payments.
In the circumstances, I would have expected Revolut to have asked questions 
around why he needed to make so many high value payments to several payee in 
such a short span of time. Why did he need to pay recipient B £9,500 having already 
paid them £10,000 that day and £9,999.99 the previous day. Why would he not have 
known how much hed need to pay them in total  or at least earlier that day? And 
why was he suddenly making lots of high-value payments to another new payee as 
well as to a cryptocurrency account?
Im not persuaded Mr J would have had a reasonable explanation for all of this. And 
hes also explained he was uncomfortable about being asked to lie to his account 
providers. So I think this was likely a missed opportunity to have uncovered the 
scam. I think Revolut could well have succeeded in getting Mr J to have divulged 
what he was doing. And if he didnt, I think it should have had enough concerns 
about the account activity, and lack of reasonable explanations, to have refused 
further payments.
I therefore think Revolut should have prevented the payments Mr J made from the 
account from this point onwards. However, Ive also considered whether Mr J should 
also be held partly responsible for the further losses incurred by way of contributory 
negligence.
In all the circumstances, I consider it fair to make a 50% deduction to the loss which 
Ive found Revolut ought to have prevented to reflect. Thats because:Although the scammer used some sophisticated tactics, such as spoofing Ns 
number, I think Mr J should have reasonably done more to check the 
legitimacy of what he was being told. Especially given the value of funds he 
was being asked to transfer and the number of different accounts he was 
directed to send these to.
I think it should have seemed unusual to Mr J that the scammer directed him 
download and use the app Telegram  as thats not how N normally contacts 
him.
While he says he thought the firms he transferred money through were all 
working together, I cant see he took steps to check if they had any 
connections. And I think that should have seemed unusual, particularly as the 
instruction came (allegedly) from N, a bank  but he was also being directed 
to use cryptocurrency exchanges.
Some of the recipient names Mr J was given for the alleged safe accounts, 
were names known to him. Whereas some were random. I think this 
inconsistency ought to have struck him as odd, and to have called into 
question the legitimacy of what he was being told
Mr J has also told us he felt uncomfortable about being asked to lie to his 
various account providers  suggesting he did have some reservations. Yet 
he continued until checking with N if the name given by the scammer was a 
genuine employee ten days into the scam.
I therefore dont think Mr J did enough to reasonably satisfy himself that the scammer 
was legitimate. So although I do hold Revolut at fault, I consider it fair to reduce the 
compensation Im awarding by 50% to reflect Mr Js contributory negligence.
For those payments which Ive found Revolut isnt liable for failing to prevent, I dont 
think it could have done more to help retrieve the loss. It seems it promptly reached 
out to the beneficiary banks when Mr J reported the loss  and was in fact able to 
retrieve the payment of £19,900 sent to recipient A. Im not persuaded it missed an 
opportunity to retrieve any more funds. Unfortunately, its common in these types of 
scams that the funds are promptly moved on to avoid the risk of them being recalled.
I invited both parties to provide further comments or evidence before I made my final 
decision. Mr J has responded to provide a bit more information about the interest rate of the 
originating account. Revolut has responded to explain why it doesnt agree with my 
provisional findings. In summary, this is because:
It doesnt agree that it should have found the initial cryptocurrency transfer suspicious 
as Mr J opened his cryptocurrency wallet with Revolut in January 2021 
Its also clarified which payment triggered as suspicious  and says Mr J ignored the 
warnings it then displayed.
It doesnt think its fair to make a hypothetical assumption of Mr Js potential 
behaviour. It points out that other banks were convince by the explanations he gave. 
And it says that, even if Mr J didnt have a reasonable explanation, there wasnt 
anything to suggest it had grounds to refuse the payments.
It feels Mr J showed determination to make these payments so doesnt think the 
questions I said it should have asked would have changed his mind. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im come to the same conclusions as I did in my provisional decision (which 
Ive set out above, and which also forms part of my final decision). As the reasoning is 
largely the same, Ill focus on addressing the points raised in response.
I appreciate Mr J already held an established cryptocurrency account. But based on the 
records Revolut have provided, it does appear the particular transaction Ive said should 
have triggered was unusual for him. I cant see that he had a history of making such large 
cryptocurrency payments. 
In any event, Ive determined that it wouldnt have been able to successfully intervene at this 
point. So whether or not this payment ought to have triggered doesnt affect my overall 
findings. 
Ive taken into account what Revolut has said about Mr J ignoring its warnings about the 
payments it identified as suspicious. But, as I explained in my provisional decision, Im not 
persuaded the warnings were a sufficient response to the fraud risk identified. They gave no 
context to why the payments appeared suspicious. Nor did they provide Mr J with any insight 
into what warning signs he should be looking out for to protect himself from fraud. 
Instead, as explained in my provisional decision, I think Revolut should have directly 
questioned Mr J about those payments Ive determined it should have been suspicious 
about. That would have been a more impactful way to reassure itself about whether all was 
well. 
Revolut is correct that Im having to make an assumption about what would have happened 
if it had intervened appropriately. That will always be the case when we determine that a 
business didnt do what it should have done. Its my role to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats more likely to have happened if it had done what it should have done. 
Its a case of making a reasoned assumption.
I have considered Revoluts point that other banks accepted Mr Js explanations. However, 
some of those banks have also upheld Mr Js complaints that they didnt do enough to 
protect him. In any event, Im considering what ought to have happened on this account  
from which the highest number of scam payments were made. 
As my provisional decision explained, one key reason why I think Revolut could have 
unravelled the scam is the number of payments, to different payees  which would have 
made it harder for Mr J to have convinced Revolut about his reasons for all the payments. 
Especially as, compared to interventions from other banks, Ive not seen anything to suggest 
Mr J had been coached on what to say if Revolut did intervene.  
My provisional decision also acknowledges that Mr J likely wouldnt have been immediately 
forthcoming. But Ive also explained why I think appropriate questioning, and warnings, 
would have uncovered the scam. Mr J was already uncomfortable being asked to lie. So I do 
think that, with questioning and warning from Revolut, it could have persuaded him to 
provide more information that would have made it, and him, realise he was being scammed.Revolut says that, even if Mr J wasnt able to reasonably explain his actions, it wouldnt have 
had reason to refuse the payments. Notwithstanding what Ive set above (including in my 
provisional decision) about why I think it could have uncovered things, Revolut would still 
have grounds to refuse the payments if it thought Mr J was going to fall victim to fraud. And 
so I think, if faced with no reasonable explanation for these suspicious payments, it would 
have had grounds to refuse the payments. 
For these reasons, Im therefore decided to uphold this complaint. I think Revoluts failures 
have contributed to Mr Js loss  but that he should also share some liability for this. 
Putting things right
Revolut Ltd should refund 50% of Mr Js payments from payment five onwards, as set out in 
the table below:
Date Amount Amount to refund 
05/12/2021 £21,000.00 £0.00
05/12/2021 £19,900.00 £0.00
06/12/2021 £9,999.99 £0.00
07/12/2021 £10,000.00 £0.00
07/12/2021 £9,500.00 £4,750.00
07/12/2021 £9,499.99 £4,750.00
08/12/2021 £5.00 £2.50
08/12/2021 £10,000.00 £5,000.00
08/12/2021 £10,001.00 £5,000.50
08/12/2021 £9,640.00 £4,820.00
10/01/2022 -£19,900.00 £0.00
Total £89,645.98 £24,323.00
It appears these funds would have remained in the account they were transferred from had it 
not been for the scam. So Revolut Ltd should apply interest on the above refund, at the 
originating account rate, from the date the payments left Mr Js account to the date of 
settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Revolut Ltd 
to put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman