DRN-4110541
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as Y, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
(trading as Cashplus) wont refund payments it didnt make.
Mrs J, who is a director of Y, brings the complaint on Ys behalf
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for these reasons: 
Cashplus hasnt disputed this concerns unauthorised payments. However, in line with 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017, it refused to refund them because it asserts 
Mrs J failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account and keep 
Ys personalised security details safe
Having considered the circumstances carefully, Im not persuaded Cashplus has 
shown thats the case. Ill explain why.
Mrs J received several missed calls that appeared to come from Cashplus. Given the 
persistence, Mrs J stopped work to answer the sixth call. She recalled they told her to 
check the text message they sent. This also appeared to come from Cashplus  it 
said someone would contact her about unauthorised activity. A further message 
referenced a payment that was being attempted and to confirm with the caller if Mrs J 
recognised it. 
Taking into account how the calls appeared, and how they coincided with what 
looked like a genuine Cashplus messages, I can see how Mrs J trusted the caller 
was from her bank. Cashplus say the number of calls shouldve been a red flag, as it 
wouldnt do this. But I wouldnt expect Mrs J to know how persistent her bank would 
genuinely be if there were signs of fraud. So I can see how she instead took the 
repeated calls to mean there was an urgent problem  I think lots of people wouldve 
done. 
Mrs J explains she was told to read out one-time-passcodes that shed receive by 
text to cancel the fraudulent transactions. I can see this instruction was also 
confirmed by text message to her  again, this appeared to come from Cashplus. 
Ive considered the content of these messages: [XXXXXX] is your code to verify the 
payment [amount] at [merchant] with card ending [XXXX]. Cashplus submit its very 
clear its to make a payment. In response, Mrs J said she didnt read these messages 
in full as she was focused on following the instructions of the caller.  
Ive considered the circumstances carefully. Im mindful that Mrs J was cleverly 
tricked into trusting the caller and was duped into a state of panic about the safety of 
Ys money. Shed also been primed to expect these messages, which then genuinely 
came from Cashplus  and I note the code appeared first in the message. Taking this 
all into account, I can see how Mrs J did as the caller asked and shared the codes. 
And Im not persuaded her actions were very significantly careless compared to a 
reasonable person  to conclude that she failed with gross negligence.
Finally, Ive noted Cashpluss point that, as a business customer, it expected more 
due diligence. But, even accepting this, Im not persuaded it shouldve been obvious 
to Mrs J this was a serious risk. In saying this, Ive noted several of Cashpluss 
business customers has fallen victim to similar scams. This seems to be a result of 
the scams sophistication and how it was seemingly planned to target Cashpluss 
customers, as opposed to Mrs Js gross negligence. 
So I conclude that Y isnt liable for these payments and Cashplus needs to put things 
right  by refunding Ys losses from these unauthorised payments. 
Cashplus shouldve refunded these much sooner. It seems that Y was placed under 
a lot of financial strain because of what happened, although its not provided the 
specific details of this. So, in the circumstances, I think its fair to also award 8% 
simple interest per year to compensate Y for the time its been out of pocket.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ys complaint. Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
must:
Pay Y the total of the unauthorised payments, less any amount recovered or 
refunded  I understand this to be £11,534.99.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
payments to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman