DRN-4227098
The complaint
Mrs M complains about Aviva Insurance Limited trading as Quotemehappy.com (AIL) and 
their decision to settle the claim she made on her motor insurance policy on a 50/50 split 
liability basis.
What happened
Mrs M held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by AIL. Unfortunately, in August 2022, 
Mrs M was involved in a road traffic accident in a local car park. So, she contacted AIL to 
notify them and make a claim on her policy.
Mrs Ms version of events described the third-party car reversing into her car while she was 
stationary, and she provided images she felt supported this. Mrs M also explained her belief 
the third-party driver had apologised and admitted liability at the scene. So, Mrs M made AIL 
aware she felt the claim should be settled on a non-fault basis, and the costs claimed back 
from the third-party insurer (TPI).
AIL submitted this claim, and their request for 100% of the costs, to the TPI. But the TPI 
disputed Mrs Ms version of events, explaining their insured had stated both parties had 
been reversing at the time of the collision. So, the TPI suggested settlement on a 50/50 split 
liability basis. As the TPI defended the claim, AIL referred the claim and relevant information 
to an independent arbitrator, who Ill refer to as C, for their advice on how best to settle the 
claim. And C recommended settling the claim on a 50/50 basis. So, this is what AIL did. But 
Mrs M was unhappy with this decision, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs M didnt think AIL were fair to settle the claim on a 50/50 basis. She felt her testimony, 
and the evidence she provided, made it reasonably clear the third-party were at fault. So, 
she wanted to the AIL to report the claim as non-fault. And she wanted AIL to refund the total 
excess of £500 she paid, consisting of the voluntary excess applied to the policy and the 
excess she paid for requesting AIL use a repairer of her choice.
AIL responded to the complaint and didnt agree. They thought they had acted fairly, and in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy Mrs M held, when settling the claim on a 
50/50 basis. So, they thought the excesses paid were applicable, and that the claim had 
been recorded accurately and they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mrs M 
remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought AIL had acted 
fairly when settling the claim on a 50/50 split liability basis. So, they didnt think the way the 
claim was recorded should be changed. And they were satisfied the excesses Mrs M paid 
were charged in line with the terms of the policy, so they didnt think these should be 
refunded.
Mrs M didnt agree. And she provided additional comments and information surrounding the 
technical specification of her car, and why she felt this supported her version of events that 
she wasnt reversing at the time of the accident. Our investigator considered this, but their 
view remained unchanged. Mrs M continued to disagree and so, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs M. I recognise Mrs M 
feels very strongly about the complaint, and the way the claim has been settled. And Ive 
carefully considered this alongside Mrs Ms testimony explaining why she feels the claim 
should be recorded as non-fault. As Mrs M has a clear and definitive opinion on this, I can 
appreciate the upset and frustration she will no doubt have felt when she was told the claim 
would be settled on a split liability basis. And I recognise how this upset may have been 
made worse due to an increase in her premium prices, even though her no claims discount 
was protected.
As AIL were acting on Mrs Ms behalf, as her insurer, I can understand why she would 
expect AIL to act in her best interests. And as they have settled the claim in a way she 
doesnt agree with, I can understand why she feels unfairly treated and wants AIL to take 
action, and compensate her financially, to recognise this.
But for me to say AIL should do something more, such as change the way the claim has 
been recorded or refund any excesses she paid, I first need to be satisfied AIL have done 
something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied that AIL failed to act in line with the policy 
terms and conditions when settling the claim and charging the excesses. Or, if I think AIL did 
act within these, Id need to be satisfied they acted unfairly in some other way. And in this 
situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached this decision, I think it would be useful to set out exactly 
how, and what, Ive been able to consider. Its not my role, nor the role of our service, to re-
underwrite the claim as we dont have the expertise to do so. So, I wont be speculating on 
how I feel the claim should be settled, or what happened at the time of the accident. Instead, 
it is my role to consider the actions AIL have taken, including the way theyve settled the 
claim, and decide whether I think they acted fairly and reasonably considering the 
information available to them at the time.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mrs M held. And these explain in the general 
conditions section, under the section our rights that AIL can take over and conduct in the 
name of the person claiming under the policy the defence or settlement of any claim and 
that AIL shall have full discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or the settlement of any 
claim. I think these terms and conditions make it reasonably clear that AIL were able to 
settle the claim as they saw fit, without the agreement of Mrs M being needed. So, I dont 
think I can say AIL acted outside of the policy when deciding the settle the claim on a 50/50 
split liability basis.
The policy terms and conditions also explain that An excess will apply to most claims and 
a further excess will apply if you choose to have your car repaired in a garage that is not 
one of our approved repairers before explaining that your schedule will show the excesses 
you will have to pay towards any claim.Ive seen the policy schedule, which shows the policy had an overall excess of £250. And a 
non-approved repairer excess of an additional £250. In this situation, Mrs M was claiming on 
her policy, so I think the £250 overall policy excess was applicable. And Ive seen system 
notes which show Mrs M directly requested for her own repairer to be used, due to her cars 
age and her wanting to ensure any replacement parts came directly from the manufacturer. 
So, as this repairer wasnt an approved repairer of AILs, I think the non-approved repairer 
excess of £250 was also applicable. And because of this, Im satisfied the full £500 excess 
taken by AIL was calculated in line with the policy terms.
But as Ive explained above, Ive also thought about whether AIL acted fairly when settling 
the claim in line with the policy. And when deciding this, Ive thought about the way they 
settled the claim and thought about whether I think another insurer would most likely have 
taken the same action, in the same situation. And I think they would.
I recognise Mrs M feels her testimony regarding the accident circumstances, and the images 
she provided, supports her belief the accident was the fault of the third-party. Im satisfied 
AIL put this belief directly to the TPI when they initially submitted the claim and so, Im 
satisfied they acted fairly and in Mrs Ms best interests.
AIL were unable to control the TPIs decision to challenge the claim and put forward the idea 
of settling the claim on a 50/50 basis. At this point, as AIL and the TPI were attempting the 
settle the claim in a different way, based on differing versions of events from both parties 
involved in the accident, Id expect AIL to take time to consider how they should proceed. 
And when doing so, Id expect AIL to ensure any steps they took looked to mitigate the costs 
of the claim, as this is what industry guidelines expect.
To ensure this was considered, I can see AIL asked C to provide their own expert opinion on 
how the claim should be settled. And I think this is an action most other insurers wouldve 
taken, to ensure they were reasonably considering prospects of success in taking further 
action.
I can see C considered all the information Mrs M provided, alongside the TPIs challenge, 
and recommended AIL settle the claim on a 50/50 basis, as there was no evidence to show 
definitively which cars were, and werent, reversing. As AIL instructed C to give their opinion 
as an independent expert, I think AIL were fair to then rely on the opinion C provided. And I 
think another insurer wouldve most likely taken the same course of action, in the same 
circumstance. So, as C recommended settling the claim on a 50/50 basis, I think AIL were 
fair to do so.
And as the claim wasnt recorded as non-fault, I wouldnt expect AIL to then attempt to 
recover Mrs Ms uninsured losses, including the excess payments she paid. So, as AIL didnt 
recover these costs, I wouldnt expect these to be refunded to Mrs M. 
So, because of all the above, I think AIL acted fairly when settling the claim, and not 
refunding the excesses applicable to Mrs Ms policy. And because of this, I dont think AIL 
need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs M was hoping for. And I want to reassure Mrs M Ive 
considered the point shes made regarding the technical specification of her car and the 
features it included that she feels shows she couldnt have been reversing at the time of the 
collision. But I cant see that Mrs M has provided our service with any independent report 
that states without doubt that this technology wouldve prevented the accident from occurring 
had she been reversing. And crucially, I cant see that any such report was given to AIL 
when they were considering the claim. As Ive already explained, it is not my role to re-
underwrite the claim or speculate on the way I wouldve settled the claim, or what happened on the day of the accident. 
My decision focuses solely on the way AIL settled the claim, based on the information they 
had available to them at the time. And I dont think there was any information available to AIL 
that suggested the specification of Mrs Ms car should be considered, or that it wouldve in 
any way changed the way they decided to settle the claim. So, this hasnt impacted the 
decision Ive reached.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint about Aviva Insurance 
Limited trading as Quotemehappy.com.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman