DRN-4169231
The complaint
Mr B complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim he 
made on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
On 18 December 2022 Mr B drove his car through a pool of standing water. The next day, as 
it wouldnt start, garage M (his local dealership garage) examined it. Garage M said water 
had entered the footwell due to blocked drainage holes and had damaged the wiring below 
it. Mr B paid over £4,000 for the repairs to be done and then sent the invoice to Advantage. It 
instructed an independent engineer and consulted a senior in-house engineer. They said the 
blocked drainage holes were the result of poor maintenance. Advantage said the claim was 
excluded under the policy, but it offered Mr B £75 for its poor communication with him. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Bs complaint. He said Advantage should pay Mr B 
£175 for its poor service. He noted that the independent engineer had said the car had less 
than average mileage and was in good condition. He also noted that garage M had told Mr B 
that drainage holes werent checked in a normal service. As he didnt think any of the 
policys exclusions applied, the investigator said Advantage should reconsider the claim, in 
line with the policys other terms and conditions.
Advantage said Mr B should have been able to check the drainage holes himself - and it 
provided a video link of the process. It also said there was no evidence of the servicing of 
the cars air conditioning unit, which would have revealed the drainage hole issue. Our 
investigator pointed out that one of Advantages internal notes said checking the drainage 
holes was an unusually high level of maintenance for a consumer  and that they could have 
been blocked by items lying in the water the car was driven through.
Later, Advantage said garage M had stated that corrosion to the cars wiring had happened 
over a long time, and as it was pre-existing, declining the claim was fair. The investigator 
said the garage hadnt said it occurred over a long period. But Advantage said the 
investigators opinion wasnt evidence and it didnt override the engineers views. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To rely on a policy exclusion, Advantage must show that it applies to the claim. The 
exclusions cover wear and tear, deterioration, gradual loss or damage, failures, breakdowns, 
and breakage of mechanical, electrical, electronic or computer equipment. I dont think 
Advantage has shown that any of these apply in this case. The policy also requires a 
consumer to maintain their car in an efficient and roadworthy condition and to have a valid 
MOT certificate if applicable. It says if a cars condition causes or contributes to an incident, 
the policy cover doesnt apply.
Mr Bs car had a valid MOT certificate, and it was serviced by the dealership garage he 
bought it from. I dont think Advantage has shown that it wasnt maintained efficiently or that 
it wasnt in a roadworthy state. The independent engineer said its condition was good and 
made no enquiries about the car. I dont think theres evidence to show that its condition is 
likely to have caused or contributed to the damage. The only evidence about that is on 
garage Ms invoice - and it only said the drainage holes were blocked. 
We normally give great weight to the views of independent engineers. But in this case the 
independent engineer couldnt see what had happened - as the repair work had already 
been done  and he relied solely on garage Ms invoice. I think the same applies to 
Advantages senior engineer. I appreciate that both engineers thought poor maintenance 
must have caused the damage, but I dont think their opinions alone are sufficient here. 
I dont think Mr B (an average consumer) could have been expected to know that the cars 
drainage holes should be checked. I dont think most average consumers would have 
known. Ive seen the video Advantage supplied and I dont think an average consumer would 
be confident in following it  or that theyd want to try. So in my opinion, it isnt reasonable to 
suggest that if a consumer hasnt checked their cars drainage holes, they havent 
maintained the car properly. In addition, theres no evidence about when the blockage 
happened or what it consisted of. I think its quite possible (as Advantage has acknowledged 
in its notes) that debris in the water that the car was driven through got into the car on the 
day of the incident and caused the blockage.    
Mr B says he asked garage M about the servicing of the air conditioning unit, and it said it 
hadnt been done, as its not part of a normal service. He thinks it didnt propose the extra 
service due to the cars very low mileage  which fits with some of the guidance Ive seen on 
the issue. Advantage told our investigator it was also reasonable for it to decline the claim as 
corrosion to the cars wiring had been there a long time. But only garage M saw the 
corrosion, so Advantage cant say how long it was there, or how extensive it was. I dont 
think its clear whether Advantages suggestion is that the corrosion was due to poor 
maintenance and that it caused or contributed to the damage. But the issue wasnt queried 
or investigated, nor was it mentioned when Advantage declined the claim initially. And it 
doesnt seem to be connected to the blocked drainage holes. 
In terms of Advantages poor service, its clear that due to a lack of contact from it about 
progress, Mr B had to keep chasing for updates. Advantage asked him for details hed 
submitted more than once, and he was given inaccurate information by it, which caused him 
frustration and confusion. There was a delay in the independent engineers visit (so Mr B 
had to delay selling his car) and in getting his report. As I think Mr B faced a fair amount of 
inconvenience and frustration over several weeks I think £175 compensation is a fair sum. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr B £175 compensation for distress and inconvenience 
Reconsider the claim, in line with the policys other terms and conditions
Add interest to any settlement sum paid, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the 
date Mr B provided garage Ms invoice to the date of the settlement 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023. Susan Ewins
Ombudsman