DRN-4120331
The complaint
Mr K complains that he didnt get an interest-free period from Tesco Personal Finance PLC  
trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco).
What happened
In January 2023, Mr K applied for a credit card from Tesco. It was agreed with a limit of 
£4,300. The card agreement said balance transfers would be charged at 0% for 15 months 
from account opening. Purchase interest was to be 25.692% per annum.
Mr K called Tesco on 22 February 2023 about the interest rates to be applied to the card.
From 23 February 2023, Mr K made purchases on the card of £663.17.
Mr K complained that on the call with Tesco on 22 February 2023, hed been advised that 
purchases would be interest free for 14 months. He had received an email from Tesco to say 
that interest was to be charged on the purchases borrowing. He said he had been misled on 
the call and Tesco should stick by what they told him on the call  and give him interest free 
borrowing on purchases for the full period.
Tesco said the card agreement included zero interest on balance transfers for 15 months, 
and zero interest on money transfers for nine months. There wasnt an introductory rate for 
purchases. But they paid compensation of £75 and gave Mr K two months interest free 
borrowing on the purchases by way of compensation.
Mr K didnt accept this and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She 
said the credit card agreement was clear and said that interest would be charged on 
purchases. And the statement sent to Mr K on 6 February 2023 also said that. So Mr K 
shouldve reasonably known about the interest charge.
Mr K didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint. And so, it has come 
to me to make a final decision. Mr K particularly asked that the call on 22 February 2023 is 
reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a first step here, Tescos credit card agreement is clear  that borrowing related to 
purchases is charged at 25.692%. It says Purchases25.692%. And this is also shown on 
Mr Ks statement dated 6 February 2023.
Our investigator said that was enough to say that Mr K shouldve realised what the interest 
rates were.
But Mr K argues that he made a point of calling Tesco to clarify what the rules were 
regarding how interest was applied.  And he said he was told that purchases would be 
interest free for 14 months.
The issue here is that Tesco told us at the outset  when they sent their information about 
the complaint to us  that the full call wasnt available to listen to. Thats because it was 
paused  to delete security questions and answers  and this pause then caused the rest of 
the call content to be obscured. 
I listened to the call (such as it is). And Mr K asked that he wants to know his options for the 
0%. He said he didnt want to take advantage of the money transfer offer as hed found a 
better offer elsewhere. He then said he wanted to use it (the card) for something else. And 
then  the call doesnt have any more content.
Mr K says that Tesco have deliberately hidden the key parts of the call  and on it, he was 
clearly told the purchases borrowing would be interest free. Ive considered this point  but I 
see no reason for Tesco to do that. And  its quite normal for a firm to delete the security 
details (e.g. passwords/pass codes etc) when sending calls to us  for obvious reasons of 
confidentiality. Its just that in doing so, the call has been affected.
But I can see that Mr K went ahead and made purchases of £663 after the call  so it does 
seem likely that he was told that purchases would be interest free. And so  I accept that he 
was so told.
But  that doesnt mean to say its reasonable that he should get 14 months (i.e. another 12 
months) interest free borrowing. There was a human error made here  but I dont think it's 
reasonable to say that overrides the information Mr K was sent  the credit card agreement 
and the statement.
In cases of simple human error, our service considers what would be a reasonable and fair 
amount of compensation. Weve set out some criteria for deciding on awards and these are 
shown at:
https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/expect/compensation-for-distress-or-
inconvenience
We say - typically an apology or small monetary award of less than £100 will fairly 
compensate a one-off incident or occurrence  such as a small administrative error or a 
short delay. An apology can often be enough to remedy these types of mistakes, as long as 
they cause minimal impact and are put right quickly. I think that what happened in Mr Ks 
case fits this description.
Therefore in this case  I think Tescos payment of £75, plus interest- free borrowing for two 
months  was a fair way to resolve Mr Ks complaint. I accept that Mr K will be disappointed 
by my decision, but Im not asking Tesco to do any more than that here (continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 Martin Lord
Ombudsman