DRN-2936547
The complaint
The Trustees of Mrs J (the trustees) have complained that Aviva Insurance Limited didnt 
respond to correspondence about their insurance claim. Mr J has brought the complaint on 
behalf of the trustees.  
What happened
The trustees previously brought a complaint to our service following a complaint to Aviva 
about a claim from 2015. An Ombudsman issued a decision in October 2017 which 
explained that we were unable to consider the trustees complaint as they werent an eligible 
complainant due to the value of the trusts net assets.
  
In November 2020 the trustees brought a new complaint. In summary, they were unhappy 
that Aviva: 
Refused to answer correspondence and questions  
Pretended it hadnt received tracked correspondence 
Said it had replied by letter when it hadnt 
Behaved in a way which reduced trust 
 
The trustees provided our service with copies of letters sent to Aviva dated February 2018, 
March 2018, November 2019, February 2020 and April 2020. 
 
Aviva said it had issued a final response in 2017 to the original complaint, in which it gave its 
final answer. It said that, as the letters referred to above dealt with the same issues, it was 
unable to consider the matter further.  
 
Our investigator thought we could only consider the trustees complaint about Aviva not 
responding to communication from 1 April 2019. He thought Aviva could have done more to 
ensure the trustees had received its letters and recommended Aviva pay £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience this had caused.  
 
The trustees felt that more elements of their complaint were new and required consideration. 
They also thought Aviva had deliberately ignored their letters and that Avivas logs werent  
sufficient to show replies had been sent. They asked for an ombudsman to review their 
complaint.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our powers to consider complaints are set out in the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 (FSMA) and in rules, known as the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) written by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in accordance with the powers it derives from FSMA. 
These form part of the FCA Handbook. 
 
This service is bound by the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook. For us to be able to consider the trustees complaint, the service 
has to have jurisdiction to do so. To put it simply, we can only consider a complaint if our 
rules allow.  
 
Our jurisdiction rules are set out in DISP 2 and one of those rules is that the complainant 
must be eligible to bring the complaint to our service.  DISP 2.7.3R(4) sets out the eligibility 
criteria where the trustees of a trust bring a complaint to us.  
 
This rule was amended as at 1 April 2019, and I think it would be helpful to set out the 
position before and after the amendment.  
 
Before the amendment, trustees of a trust with a net asset value of less than £1 million  
at the time the complaint was referred to the financial business were able to bring their 
complaint to us.  
 
After the amendment, which took effect from 1 April 2019, trustees of larger trusts with a net 
asset value of less than £5 million have been able to bring their complaint to us. However, 
trustees of larger trusts can only bring a complaint to us about an act or omission by a 
financial business that occurred on or after 1 April 2019. 
 
In this instance, the trustees brought a new complaint to us in November 2020 which we 
referred to Aviva, as the respondent business. As the complaint was referred to Aviva after   
1 April 2019 and as the net asset value of the trust was less than £5 million at the time, 
we are able to consider the complaint under our amended rules. However, as mentioned 
above, we can only consider acts or omissions that happened after 1 April 2019. 
 
Having reviewed the complaint, I think the key questions raised are in relation to the claim 
from 2015 and the trustees being unhappy with the final response that was issued by 
Aviva in 2017. As the crux of the queries raised in most of the trustees letters relate to an 
act or omission that took place before 1 April 2019, under the rules by which we are obliged 
to operate, Im unable to consider them.  
 
So, I will focus my decision on those acts or omissions that happened after 1 April 2019. 
These are Avivas response to the trustees letters of November 2019, February 2020 and 
April 2020. 
In November 2019 the trustees wrote to Aviva about their claim and to ask why previous 
letters in relation to the claim hadnt been answered.
  
In February 2020 the trustees wrote to Aviva - attaching a copy of the letter dated November 
2019  to say that they hadnt received a response. 
 
In April 2020 the trustees wrote to Aviva again, unhappy that Aviva hadnt responded to 
previous correspondence. The trustees said that a telephone operative of Avivas had told 
Mr J that Aviva wouldnt answer the letters and would be of no further assistance. The 
trustees again asked Aviva to respond to previous correspondence.
  
Avivas contact notes show that Mr J called Aviva on Friday 20 December 2019 to ask why 
he hadnt had a response to his letter. I can see that someone called him back and said 
they would ask someone to call him on the following Monday. There is a note on the log 
dated Monday 23 December 2019 but its unclear what the note relates to or whether 
someone called Mr J. The contact notes also show that Aviva sent the trustees a letter on 7 January 2020. The 
reference for this letter is We can no longer assist with this. I have asked Aviva for a copy 
of this letter, but it hasnt been provided. Without seeing the content of the letter, its 
impossible to know what was in it. But as its listed on Avivas system notes, I think its more 
likely than not to have been sent and the title indicates that the letter told the trustees Aviva 
was no longer able to correspond about their concerns. 
On 11 February 2020, Avivas contact notes show that it had received the trustees letter 
dated 7 February 2020. The notes say looks like he hasnt received my letter from January. 
Now resent. There is a further entry on 3 March 2020 which says letter to Mr J. I havent 
seen the contents of this letter, despite asking Aviva for a copy, and there is no explanation 
in the notes about what this letter says. The contact notes dont show a record of Aviva 
receiving the trustees letter of April 2020, although Mr J said the postage records show it 
was received. 
On balance, I think its more likely than not that Aviva responded to Mr Js correspondence 
of December 2019 and February 2020 by telling the trustees it was no longer able to assist 
with their queries. However, I do think Aviva could have done more to ensure the trustees 
had received the communication telling them that they were no longer able to assist, as the 
continued letters indicate that the trustees hadnt received them. 
I think Aviva not doing this caused the trustees some distress and inconvenience and Im 
satisfied £100 is a fair and reasonable amount for it to pay to compensate the trustees for 
this. 
 
The trustees have also said their complaint incorporates the actions of a broker. However, 
as the broker is a separate company to Aviva, I cant comment on that in this decision.  
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay The Trustees of Mrs J £100 
compensation for their distress and inconvenience.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask The Trustees of 
Mrs J to accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman