DRN-3034235
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) unfairly declined their claim under 
their Property Owners Insurance Policy for roof damage after a storm.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S undertook extensive work on the roof of their property in 2013. They hold a 
Property Owners Insurance Policy with Lloyds.
On 14 June 2020 a builder sleeping at the property said he heard a loud crashing sound and 
howling winds. He reported that tiles had fallen from the roof.
So Mr and Mrs S made a claim for the roof damage under their Property Owners Policy.
Lloyds appointed an assessor to survey the damage at the property. They inspected the 
property on 23 July 2020. The subsequent report stated that there was one damaged tile 
and a small number of missing tiles from the front hanging elevation. The assessor advised 
the cause wasnt an insurable event but a result of frost damage and nail fatigue. The 
assessor also said that a photo from Google Street View from July 2014 showed a hanging 
tile.
Based on the assessment of the damage, Lloyds declined the claim. They couldnt 
associate the damage with an insured event. Mr and Mrs S disagreed and raised a 
complaint. They asked that a full copy of the assessors report and all supporting evidence 
be shared with them. They also queried why their claim hadnt been assessed under their 
accidental damage cover.
Lloyds issued their final response to the complaint on 11 November 2020. They didnt 
uphold the complaint. They didnt agree that an insured event had caused the damage. 
In April 2021 Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to this service. They shared statements 
from the builder whod been sleeping at the property at the time of the claim. And from the 
roofer whod repaired their roof. The roofer said that theyd found no sign of frost damage. 
Our investigator reviewed their complaint. He didnt think it should be upheld. He said he 
couldnt find evidence of an insured event. And therefore he couldnt say that Lloyds had 
been wrong to decline the claim.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with our investigator. They felt that Lloyds were now relying on 
wind speed at the time of the claim to decline it, rather than frost damage theyd relied on 
before. They said the builder whod been staying at their house had stated there was gusting 
wind on the evening the damage occurred. And that hed heard a big crash as the tiles fell 
off the eaves. They also said that they felt theyd shown wear and tear wasnt an issue, and 
therefore believed that they could make a successful claim under the accidental damage 
section of their policy. 
Our investigator explained that its the policyholders responsibility to show that an insurable 
event has taken place. And that the insurers role is to act in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. He said that the insurer had investigated whether thered been storm conditions 
as reported by the builder. But theyd found that there werent any storm force winds in the 
week prior to the claim. Our investigator also noted that as there was no evidence of an 
insurable event  storm conditions - there could be no valid claim. Therefore it wasnt 
relevant whether the damage had been caused by nail fatigue or frost damage, as reported 
by the assessor. He also noted that Mr and Mrs Ss roofer hadnt provided an opinion or 
evidence on what he considered to be the cause of the damage. 
Our investigator also noted that Mr and Mrs S didnt claim that the cause of damage was an 
accident. And as such he didnt consider that cover shouldve been provided under the 
accidental damage section of their policy. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
For any insurance claim to be successful, the policyholder must establish that they have a 
valid claim. In essence, the policyholder must show that an insured event occurred which 
caused damage or a loss. Its not for the insurer to establish the claim on the policyholders 
behalf. If the policyholder is unable to meet this requirement the claim will fail at that stage. It 
is only once the policyholder has established a valid claim that the insurer is required to 
demonstrate that a policy exclusion applies to defeat it. Therefore, until and unless Mr and 
Mrs S have established a valid claim, it isnt Lloyds responsibility to establish what caused 
the damage to the roof. 
Mr and Mrs Ss policy provided cover for damage caused to their property by a range of 
insured events. The events were listed in the policy and are commonly found in most policies 
on the market. Examples included flood, fire and storm. 
The cost of repairing the roof isnt covered by the policy simply because it was damaged 
whilst the policy was in existence. Its only covered if Mr and Mrs S can show that it was 
damaged by an insured event. 
Mr and Mrs S felt that their roof was damaged by storm conditions. Lloyds didnt think storm 
conditions had been present. They said that pictures of the damaged roof showed: a small 
number of tiles on the roof that have similar damage in various locations. Strong winds and 
rain do not break tiles in individual locations. If storm conditions have caused damage to the 
roof we would expect to see a wider area of damage around the broken tiles as others would 
have lifted and been disturbed. They said their assessment of the roof showed it had been 
damaged through frost damage and nail fatigue. This would class as wear and tear.
The independent weather database Lloyds used to assess the claim advised of wind speeds 
gusting to 25mph on the day in question. As our investigator noted, the meteorological office 
defines a storm as wind speeds between 55  63 mph. But that minor damage to tiles can 
start from 47 mph. My own analysis of the weather conditions at the time indicate that the 
maximum gust around the time of the claim was 36 mph on 11 June 2020. So, based on the 
weather evidence, Im not persuaded that the definition of a storm was met. 
I do acknowledge that Mr and Mrs Ss builder heard gusting wind and heard a tile fall off the 
roof. And that Mr and Mrs S have said: How can anyone explain why the tiles were hanging securely before these gusting winds and were damaged immediately after?. So I can 
understand why they blame the weather conditions for the damage. But its important to note 
that unless the weather data showed gusts of at or near a minimum of 47 mph, we wouldnt 
expect a roof with no existing issues to lose any tiles. I also note that Lloyds have provided 
evidence that part of the damage to the roof was already present in 2014, demonstrating that 
at least some of the damage had occurred prior to the claim. This is also after Mr and Mrs S 
had extensive work done on their roof. So Im satisfied that the roof wasnt in perfect 
condition, despite being regularly maintained, prior to the evening of 14 June 2020.
Mr and Mrs S havent provided any evidence which persuades me that the roof was 
damaged by one of the events listed in their policy. It seems most likely from the evidence 
provided that any bad weather that did occur merely highlighted an existing problem with the 
roof, rather than being the dominant cause of the damage. I therefore conclude that Mr and 
Mrs S havent satisfactorily established that the damage they claimed for was caused by an 
insured event. 
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs S said that Lloyds: only focused on the frost damage issue 
and their, subsequently proven, incorrect claim of wear & tear. They used this as the 
fundamental reason for turning down the claim i.e. wear & tear trumped any other issue. 
They also said Lloyds: introduced the issue of wind speeds to muddy the water still further. 
But I dont agree. Wind speeds were required in order to test whether storm conditions were 
present on the night the damage occurred. The wind speeds recorded showed that storm 
conditions hadnt been present. So Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs S have shown that 
the damage they claimed for was caused by an insured event. Therefore theres no 
requirement for me to consider whether or not Lloyds were entitled to rely on the policy 
exclusion relating to wear and tear. Mr and Mrs Ss claim effectively fell at the first hurdle. So 
even if I found in their favour on this second point the outcome of the complaint wouldnt 
change. 
However, I can see that Mr and Mrs S have requested a full copy of your surveyors report 
and all supporting substantive evidence. They said that Lloyds evidence of wear and tear 
had never been forwarded to them. 
Lloyds assessor considered that the damage was due to frost damage and nail fatigue. 
Although Mr and Mrs Ss roofer said he found no sign of frost damage, he didnt comment on 
whether nail fatigue was evident. As I mentioned above, theres no requirement for me to 
consider whether or not Lloyds came to the correct conclusion on wear and tear. And 
theres no requirement for Lloyds to share their assessors report of the damage with Mr and 
Mrs S. So I dont consider that Lloyds did anything wrong when they didnt provide a copy of 
the report to Mr and Mrs S. 
Should the claim have been considered under accidental damage?
Mr and Mrs S said that Lloyds failed to consider their claim under accidental damage. They 
said: It is very worrying that the Insurer on receiving our proven evidence that wear and tear 
was not a factor, did not then attempt to meet our claim under the AD cover we had paid for. 
They felt it was unreasonable for our investigator to take the view that Lloyds didnt need to 
consider their claim under accidental damage as they weren't claiming the cause of damage 
was an accident. And he had no evidence of an insurable event. 
Unfortunately, I agree with our investigator. I dont have any evidence that the damage was 
caused by an accident. So, I cant require it to be considered as one.
I know this decision will disappoint Mr and Mrs S. Im sorry that they feel that they havent 
been treated fairly by Society of Lloyds. But, taking all of the evidence into account, Im not persuaded Society of Lloyds were unfair or unreasonable when they declined to cover the 
claim for the roof damage. So I wont be directing Society of Lloyds to do anything further 
here. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman