DRN-4330811
The complaint
M, a limited company, has complained about incorrect information that QIC Europe Ltd gave 
to its broker in connection with its business interruption insurance claim after its business 
was affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mrs B, a director of M, has brought the complaint on Ms behalf.
References to QIC include its agents.
What happened
M runs a restaurant. It had a business interruption insurance policy with QIC covering it for 
loss of gross profit up to a limit of £500,000. Amongst other things the policy covered M for 
losses caused if it were unable to use its premises following an occurrence of a notifiable 
human disease on the premises.
M said it contacted its broker several times before the first government lockdown in 
March 2020 to check whether its policy would respond if it should be forced to close the 
restaurant by the government. After Ms broker contacted QIC, M was told it would be 
covered. 
M made a claim to QIC for its business interruption losses after its business was impacted 
by the pandemic during the first lockdown restrictions. On 19 May 2020 QIC declined the 
claim. It said the loss wasnt covered by Ms policy as there hadnt been a confirmed case of 
Covid-19 at Ms premises. Ms restaurant was closed from 20 March to 4 July 2020.
M said if it hadnt been given incorrect information by QIC, it would have provided a 
takeaway service during the first lockdown in order to reduce its losses.
It brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. I issued a provisional decision 
explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. An extract from my provisional 
findings is set out below:
Its evident from Ms submissions that unfortunately the Covid-19 pandemic had a 
significant financial impact on its business. 
It doesnt appear to be disputed that Ms policy does not in fact cover the losses it suffered 
during the first lockdown. Thats because the policy only provided cover if a business were 
forced to close because of an occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises and there is no 
evidence of such an occurrence.
I can see, however, that QIC through the actions of its agent did provide Ms broker with 
misleading information about the policy cover which the broker passed on to M. The agent 
said during two separate calls before the first lockdown came into effect that that if the 
business was required to close by a public authority following the outbreak of a notifiable 
human disease, M should be able to make a claim. That information was incorrect.
I have considered the impact that misinformation had on M.
M has said that if it had known that it wouldnt be covered by the policy, it would have 
operated a takeaway service during the first lockdown. It already had stock. So it would just 
have had to buy some boxes. It said similar businesses had made about 30% of their 
ordinary revenue by doing that.
However, Im not persuaded thats something M would probably have done as it didnt offer a 
takeaway service during later lockdowns when it knew it wasnt covered for its business 
interruption losses. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair to require QIC to reimburse M for 
the profit which it could have made during the first lockdown if it had offered a takeaway 
service.
That said, the incorrect advice clearly caused M a degree of inconvenience. For several 
weeks it had a legitimate expectation that its claim would be made. It also went to the 
unnecessary trouble of making a claim in the first place. To compensate for this, I think QIC 
should pay M the sum of £300.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party objected to my provisional findings, I see no reason to change them and 
they now form part of this final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require QIC Europe 
Limited to pay M compensation of £300 for the inconvenience caused to it by its incorrect 
information.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman