DRN-2420471
The complaint
 Mr P says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance
(PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy Mr P took out online in June 2001. He 
bought it at the same time as he applied for an Egg credit card.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Canada Square Operations disagreed with the
adjudicators opinion so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), I have based my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint, Ill explain why.
Canada Square Operations had to make sure it gave Mr P clear, fair and not misleading
information at the time of the sale so he could make an informed decision about whether to
buy PPI, or not.
I dont think it did this. Mr P changed jobs in June 2001 and moved onto a fixed term 
contract. And the terms of this policy meant the circumstances in which a policyholder on a 
fixed term contract could make a successful unemployment claim were limited. Whether he 
was working his notice in his previous role or whether he had already started his new role, I 
think this would have mattered to Mr P. And I cant see Canada Square Operations made 
this clear enough to Mr P in the information it provided at the time of the sale. 
I dont think Mr P wouldve bought the policy if Canada Square Operations had given him
better information about this limitation. So, I think Mr P has lost out because of what Canada
Square Operations did wrong.
Canada Square Operations asked for evidence of the end date of Mr Ps previous 
employment and the start date of his fixed term contract. Whilst this wasnt initially 
requested, we later asked Mr P but he said he is unable to provide any more information 
than he already has. I dont think this is unreasonable given the events took place nearly 20 
years ago. Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr P didnt change employment as he recalls. So, 
overall, I think it is fair to rely on his testimony.
Putting things right
Canada Square Operations should put Mr P in the financial position hed be in now if he
hadnt taken out PPI. Canada Square Operations has told us Mr Ps credit card account is
closed.
A. Canada Square Operations should find out how much Mr P would have owed when he
closed his credit card account if the policy hadnt been added. So, it should remove the PPI 
premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove 
any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to 
those charges. Canada Square Operations should then refund the difference between what 
Mr P owed when he closed his account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr P made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Canada Square Operations can
take off what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him. If it has already refunded
Mr P any of the commission it received from the PPI sale it can also take off that
amount.
B. Canada Square Operations should add simple interest on the difference between what
Mr P would have owed when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets
the refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when Canada Square Operations works out what Mr P would have owed each
month without PPI  Mr P paid more than enough to clear his balance, Canada Square
Operations should also pay simple interest on the extra Mr P paid. And it should carry
on paying interest until the point when Mr P wouldve owed Canada Square Operations
something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. Canada Square Operations should tell Mr P what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Canada Square Operations to take off tax from this
interest. Canada Square Operations must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its
taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
 I am upholding this complaint and Canada Square Operations Limited must out things right 
as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman