DRN-1427041
Complaint 
Mr R complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to him alongside a credit card. 
Background
Our adjudicator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. Mr R disagreed with that view. 
Through his representatives, he said that he didnt tick the box to select the PPI policy and 
so the selection must have been made by someone else. He said the tick in the PPI box was 
different to those elsewhere on the form. 
As the parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed to me 
to make a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R, but I havent upheld his complaint. Ill explain why below. 
The parties agree that the cover was sold to Mr R during a meeting in a branch. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Mr R would have known the PPI was optional and 
he didnt have to take it out. In his PPI questionnaire, Mr R said that he was led to believe he 
had no choice about proceeding with the cover. He said that he questioned whether he had 
to buy PPI at the time. In response to our adjudicator, Mr R said that he hadnt ticked the box 
on the application form and so it must have been completed by another person. 
I dont doubt that what Mr R told us is what he honestly remembers about the way PPI was 
sold to him. But I also must bear in mind that it is difficult to remember precisely what 
happened almost 20 years ago  which is when this cover was sold. Looking at the 
application form, I cant say that the mark Mr R made in that box is inconsistent with the way 
the form has been generally filled out. 
I think its most likely that what Mr R was told when he applied for PPI followed what was 
written on the application form. In that case, I can see that there were two equally prominent 
boxes to tick  one to say he wanted PPI and another to say he didnt. So if Mr R didnt want 
the cover, he could have selected the option to decline the cover. 
On balance, I think its most likely it would have been clear to Mr R that he didnt have to buy 
the policy if he didnt want it. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale. So that means Lloyds had to make sure the cover was 
suitable for Mr Rs needs. To help me decide whether it was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and conditions that apply to this cover. And Ive thought about what Mr R told us about 
his personal circumstances at the time. 
Looking first at the terms and conditions, I can see that Mr Rs credit card repayments would 
have been covered for up to 12 months if he lost his job or if he was too unwell to work. 
Looking at Mr Rs PPI questionnaire, I can see he told us that he wouldnt have received any 
sick pay if he couldnt work. And the evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest he had any other 
means of making repayments if he was off sick. 
Mr R appears to have been in good health when this policy was sold. So I dont think hed 
have been affected by any of the exclusions we usually see in this kind of cover. I havent 
seen anything else unusual about his circumstances that would have stopped him from 
being able to make a successful claim if he needed to. 
Taking all of that into account, I think the recommendation Lloyds made was probably 
suitable for Mr R. 
Having said that Lloyds also had to give Mr R enough information about the cover so he 
could decide for himself whether it was a good fit for his needs. Looking at the credit card 
application form, I think the information about the policy could have been clearer. And so it 
follows that the person who sold Mr R could have also told him more. But Ive set out above 
how the cover could have been helpful to Mr R if hed been out of work. I dont think further 
or better information would have put Mr R off buying the policy.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R, but after taking account of the information before me, I dont 
uphold his complaint and Lloyds will not need to take any further action. 
My final decision 
I dont uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman