DRN-3174667
Complaint
Miss P has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) irresponsibly provided her with an 
overdraft which it then increased the limit for when she was already in debt. Shes said that 
the additional charges caused her financial difficulty.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought HSBC shouldnt have 
increased Miss Ps overdraft in August 2016 as it ought to have realised that she couldnt 
sustainably repay the additional funds advanced. HSBC disagreed with our adjudicator and 
so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
HSBC needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss P 
would be able to repay what she was being lent before providing any credit to her. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Ive kept this all in mind when having looked at Miss Ps complaint and having done so Im 
partially upholding it.
In my view, HSBC appears to have placed limited weight on Miss Ps account conduct in the 
period leading up to the August 2016 overdraft limit increase. I say this because Miss Ps 
limit was increased to an amount which exceeded her monthly salary even though she was 
moving further and further away from a credit balance and had clearly demonstrated an 
inability to remain within her previous limit. 
In these circumstances, HSBC ought reasonably to have concluded that Miss P was unlikely 
to be able to repay what she owed without borrowing further or experiencing financial 
difficulty. Ive seen what HSBC has said about the risk of financial difficulty being low for 9 
out of 10 customers with this level of arranged and unarranged lending. Im not sure I agree 
with HSBCs definition of financial difficulty. But the issue here is that HSBC not only 
increased Miss Ps overdraft limit when she was already exceeding her existing one, it did so 
to an amount which significantly exceeded her monthly income. 
As this is the case, I think that HSBC treated Miss P unfairly when it increased her overdraft 
limit in August 2016. Miss P has paid or is being expected to pay additional interest and 
charges on credit she shouldnt have been provided with in the first place. So I think that she 
lost out because of what HSBC did wrong and that it needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Mrs P
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ps complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Rework Miss Ps overdraft balance to ensure that all additional interest, fees and 
charges as a result of the limit increases from August 2016 onwards are 
removed. In other words, HSBC should rework Miss Ps account balance to 
ensure that interest is only ever charged on the first £1,000.00 of any outstanding 
balance from August 2016 onwards; and 
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on Miss Ps account once these adjustments 
have been made HSBC should contact Miss P to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan, Miss P is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with HSBC to 
reach a suitable agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to record 
negative information on Miss Ps credit file, it should reflect what would have 
been recorded had it started the process of taking corrective action on the 
overdraft in August 2016. HSBC can also reduce Miss Ps overdraft limit by the 
amount of any refund if it considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so 
wouldnt leave her over her limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss P along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Ps credit file. HSBC can also 
reduce Miss Ps overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it 
appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give    
Miss P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, upholding Miss Ps complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Ombudsman