The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt record a written off debt on his credit file 
correctly. This caused him to lose a property. And when he contacted Barclays to try and 
resolve the issue, it didnt handle his calls properly and didnt treat him fairly. He also says 
Barclays failures led to his son being attacked. 
What happened
Mr C banked with Barclays. Unfortunately hes been very unwell. He finds dealing with 
Barclays very difficult. It agreed to write off his various debts and record them as partially 
settled. 
But it didnt do this properly on his current account and overdraft. It closed the account and 
recorded it on his credit file as defaulted  but not as settled.
Mr C says he found out about this when he applied to rent a two bedroom flat but was turned 
down because of a credit check. He needs a two bedroom property because his adult son, 
who helps him, lives with him. He could only get a one bedroom flat which isnt suitable for 
them and has caused difficulties.
Mr C tried to call Barclays to sort things out, even though he finds it very difficult. He says he 
was kept on hold for long periods. He couldnt speak to anyone able to deal with his 
complaint, or who knew about him or the previous agreement. He was promised call backs 
which never came. He found all this extremely distressing.
Mr C says that as a result his condition deteriorated, which led to difficulties between him 
and his son. His son stayed out at night because of this, and was a victim of a knife crime 
attack. Mr C says Barclays is ultimately responsible for this.
Barclays upheld his complaint. It accepted it should have recorded a settlement on his credit 
file. And it agreed that he should never have needed to contact it  which he found very 
difficult. It paid £2,500 compensation into his sons bank account. It later paid a further £200 
and agreed to close Mr Cs last account  an investment account  and write off some 
outstanding fees so that he wouldnt need to contact Barclays again. But it didnt think it was 
responsible for what had happened to his son.
Our investigator thought this was a fair offer. But Mr C didnt. He said the compensation had 
been paid to his son and hed received nothing. It was to compensate his son for the attack. 
And if he did accept compensation hed need to declare it and it would affect his benefits 
entitlement. He said it should pay £350,000, our maximum award  to mark the seriousness 
of what happened and the impact on him and to ensure he didnt lose out.
DRN-1395725What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear how unwell Mr C has been, and to hear about everything thats 
happened to him and his son. I do understand how difficult a time this has been, and I dont 
underestimate how upsetting he has found everything.
Im glad to see that Barclays looked carefully at his situation and decided that the fair thing to 
do was to write off his various accounts. Its very unfortunate that there was a problem in 
how his current account was recorded on his credit file.
Ive noted what Mr C has said about the impact this had on his ability to get a suitable 
property. I understand hes not been able to get supporting evidence of this. But without that 
evidence, I dont think I can safely say that Barclays was the cause of it. I havent seen the 
specific reason the landlord gave, and I havent seen his credit record  so I dont know 
whether there were other matters recorded there which mean hed have failed a credit check 
anyway. 
But I do think Barclays should pay Mr C compensation for the upset he experienced as a 
result of his calls with it. Having listened to the calls, I think  for the most part  the staff 
members he spoke to were trying their best to help him. At one point Barclays called the 
police because it was concerned about his welfare. Im glad that turned out not to have been 
necessary, but I think it was reasonable action for Barclays to take at the time.
But Mr C did have considerable difficulty in speaking to the right team or someone who had 
any knowledge of his situation. No individual contact had been assigned to him. He was 
promised call backs that didnt happen. And its clear that  even without those failings  Mr 
C found speaking to Barclays and discussing his situation very difficult and upsetting. If his 
credit file had been updated properly in the first place, none of these calls would ever need 
to have taken place.
Barclays has offered £2,500 compensation, plus a further £200 in respect of the investment 
account. Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a fair offer in all the 
circumstances. Its a substantial award of compensation and I think it does reflect the impact 
having to make these calls, and the failings associated with some of them, had on Mr C.
It was paid to Mr Cs sons account, as was agreed, but I dont think it was paid to Mr Cs son 
 it was paid to his account on Mr Cs behalf. I dont think I can fairly hold Barclays 
responsible for what happened to Mr Cs son as I think theres too remote a connection  if 
any  between what Barclays did and what happened. And, in any case, hes not party to 
this complaint so I cant require Barclays to compensate him.
I dont know what impact, if any, accepting the compensation would have on Mr Cs benefit 
entitlements. He might want to take advice about that from Citizens Advice or a similar body. 
In any case, I dont think it would be fair to increase the award of compensation because of 
this. I think the overall level of compensation Barclays has offered is substantial, and fairly 
takes account of the impact of the issue with the credit file has had on Mr C. Now that theres 
no reason for him to be in contact with Barclays any more, I hope hes able to move forward 
with his life without having to worry about this any more.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, I think Barclays Bank UK PLC has made a fair and reasonable 
offer to settle this complaint. I understand its already paid £2,700 to Mr C (via his sons 
account) and closed the investment account. If it hasnt it should do so now.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 January 2020.
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman