DRN-3518782
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about the decision of UK Insurance Limited (UKI) to decline 
their claim made under a home insurance policy for damage to a wall.
What happened
I have previously issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision, outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
In October 2021, Mr and Mrs B have stated that during a period of torrential rain, part of a 
retaining wall at their property collapsed. They have explained that the entirety of their next 
door neighbours adjoining wall also collapsed. They consider that this was caused by the 
volume of rain that fell, and that this represented a storm, which is an event covered by their 
policy.
UKI appointed a surveyor to inspect the damage to the wall. It declined to cover the claim on 
the basis that the cause of the damage was wear and tear, rather than a rainstorm.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed and brought a complaint to this service. Mr B commented that the 
wall had stood the test of time, and he does not accept that it was imminently going to fall 
down prior to the torrential rain falling. He agreed that the area of the wall that remains 
standing shows signs of cracking, but his view was that the collapsed section had not shown 
signs of cracking before it fell. Mr B also stated that the weather conditions at the time 
should reasonably be considered to represent a storm.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. His view was that the level of rainfall 
represented storm conditions when the wall fell down. However, the investigator concluded 
that UKI had acted fairly when it declined to cover the claim under the storm peril, based on 
the comments of its appointed surveyor that the wall was suffering from wear and tear.
Mr and Mrs B did not agree with the investigators assessment. Mr B has highlighted the 
collapse of his neighbours wall as well as his own, and explained that the walls were 
constructed in completely different styles/materials, and at different times. Mr Bs view is that 
the fact both walls collapsed at the same time indicate that an external event was the cause 
 and that the rainstorm was likely that cause. He is aware that UKI is also the underwriter of 
his neighbours home insurance policy, and that the same surveyor was used to inspect both 
walls, meaning that UKI has access to information about both walls collapse. Mr B has 
commented that in his view, because the surveyor was appointed by UKI, it was not 
independent.
Had the storm not occurred, Mr B considers his wall would still be standing. He has pointed 
out that the part of his wall that did not collapse remains in place, despite further storms. In 
terms of what the surveyor reported, looking at historical images of the parts of the wall that 
later collapsed, Mr B does not accept that there was pre-existing damage. Mr B says that 
these historical images are from some time between three and nine years ago. He has 
commented that whilst parts of the wall still standing show cracking (and he is not claiming 
for this section of the wall), the parts that fell showed no sign of movement or cracking prior 
to collapse. As a result, he does not agree that the damage to the wall was caused by 
normal wear and tear.
Regarding the construction of his wall, Mr B agrees that this does not meet current 
guidelines for retaining walls. But he points out the section still standing is more than 40 
years old, and the collapsed section was around 20 years old. Mr B has also commented 
that the policy terms do not state that retaining walls need to meet certain specifications to 
be covered. Mr B has highlighted that the wall was not damaged by landslip  the ground 
remains in place.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Bs claim was considered by UKI under the cover provided by the policy for 
storm damage. When considering whether an insurer has fairly dealt with a storm claim, this 
service generally looks at the following questions: were there storm conditions at the time of 
the event claimed for, is the damage sustained consistent with storm damage, and was the 
identified storm the main cause of the damage? Where we conclude that all three apply, we 
would normally expect an insurer to cover the claim.
Mr and Mrs B say that when part of their wall collapsed, there was a torrential rainstorm. The 
weather records that our investigator obtained show that on the day the wall was damaged, 
there was very heavy rainfall in the vicinity of Mr and Mrs Bs home over a 24 hour period. 
On balance, I consider it reasonable to conclude that their home did experience storm 
conditions, in the form of unusually high rainfall over a short period, when the section of the 
wall fell.
In terms of the second question noted above, I need to consider whether the damage that 
was experienced is typical of the sort that could be caused by intense rain. My view is that, 
in general, it is unlikely a well maintained wall would be damaged by very heavy rainfall, 
even when the wall in question is retaining soil, as was the case here. I will return to this 
point later.
Thirdly, I need to assess whether on balance, the evidence indicates that the rainstorm in 
question was likely the main cause of the damage being claimed for. Our investigator 
suggested that to find UKI at fault in its claim decision, it would need to be shown that the 
rainstorm was the sole cause of damage to the wall. However, I should clarify that what 
needs to be determined is what was the main, or dominant, cause of the damage.
To reach a conclusion on this issue, I will generally take into account any expert evidence 
that is provided by the parties. I note Mr Bs comment that the surveyor which was asked to 
inspect his wall by UKI was not wholly independent, because it was appointed by UKI. 
However, I still consider it is reasonable to place some weight on the observations of a 
specialist inspection of the area of damage.
The surveyor commented that the damage was consistent with a natural breakdown of 
materials. It questioned whether the wall was of an appropriate structure to retain the soil 
behind it. And looking at historical images of the wall, the surveyor stated that there was pre-
existing damage in the area that collapsed, and that cracks that are present in the wall are 
not recent and have been there for a while. Its conclusion was that the wall was not damaged by storm, and that instead the main cause was wear and tear and poor 
construction.
Mr and Mrs B disagree that the part of the wall which collapsed was suffering from wear and 
tear (although they accept that other parts, which they are not claiming for, are). Mr B has 
commented in some detail on the historical images of the fallen part of the wall that were 
provided by the surveyor, saying that there is no sign of cracking in this section prior to the 
storm. I have carefully considered what Mr B has said in this regard, and in my view these 
historical images do not provide a clear indication of the condition of the damaged section of 
the wall prior to it falling. I am also mindful that Mr B has said these images were taken some 
time between three and nine years ago, so we dont know by how many years they pre-date 
the walls collapse.
However, images of the sections of the wall that are still standing do show cracking. This 
shows that at least some of the wall was suffering from wear and tear prior to the storm 
event occurring, as Mr B himself acknowledges. The surveyors opinion was that the area of 
collapse itself was experiencing wear and tear. In reaching a conclusion about whether UKI 
acted fairly when declining the claim for storm, I must consider the weight of evidence 
provided. On balance, taking into account the surveyors report, my view is that it is more 
likely than not that the collapsed section of wall was suffering from wear and tear when it fell.
Further to this, considering the three questions noted above, I need to assess whether the 
damage that was experienced is typical of the sort that could be caused by intense rain, amd 
whether the identified rainstorm was likely the main cause of that damage. Although I accept 
that the levels of rain that fell at the time of the claim could constitute a storm event, it seems 
unlikely to me that such levels of rainfall would be the main cause of the collapse of a wall 
that was in good condition.
Mr B has commented that his wall had stood the test of time, regardless of whether its 
construction meets current guidelines. And I agree with him that the policy terms do not state 
that retaining walls need to meet certain specifications to be covered. But in my view, the 
crux of this case relates to what the main cause of the damage to the wall was. My 
conclusion is that the main cause of the damage to the wall was likely to have been wear 
and tear, rather than the identified storm.
Mr B has highlighted that his neighbours wall, of a different construction and age, fell at the 
same time as his own. His view is that this indicates both walls were damaged at the same 
time, by the same storm event. I understand why Mr B raises this point in support of his case 
for UKI covering his walls damage under the policy. However, it is not within my remit when 
looking at Mr and Mrs Bs complaint to determine why their neighbours claim may or may 
not have been settled by UKI. And when I consider Mr and Mrs Bs claim, my view is that the 
evidence supports on balance UKIs decision to decline it based on the walls existing wear 
and tear at the time of its collapse.
I note that Mr and Mrs Bs policy also included cover for accidental damage to buildings. This 
is defined under the policy as sudden and unintentional physical damage that happens 
unexpectedly. It is not clear to me that UKI initially considered whether the claim for damage 
to the wall would be covered under the accidental damage section of the policy, and so I 
have asked it to confirm its stance on this.
In response, UKI has stated that it remains of the opinion that the main cause of the damage 
was wear and tear. There is a general exclusion which applies to all sections of the policy 
relating to wear and tear. Based on this exclusion, my view is that UKI reasonably should not 
be required to pay the claim under the accidental damage cover held under the policy.I appreciate Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed with my findings. However, based on the 
weight of evidence provided, my provisional view is that UKI has not acted unreasonably 
when declining the claim for damage to the wall.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr B accepted that my provisional decision had addressed all the points he had made, but 
he confirmed his view about the main cause of the wall falling remained the same. He 
explained that he had no further evidence he could provide.
UKI confirmed that it had no further comments to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and taking into account the responses to my provisional decision, I do not 
consider that I have reason to alter my findings from those that I reached in the provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
John Swain
Ombudsman