DRN-3030815
The complaint
Miss G said Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI) with a 
loan.  
I know that when PPI was sold, Bank of Scotland was trading as Halifax. To keep things 
simple, Ill refer mainly to Halifax for the rest of this decision. 
What happened
PPI was sold to Miss G in May 2008 at the same time as the application for the loan was 
made. 
On 20 March 2014, Halifax wrote to Miss G to say that something may have gone wrong 
when the PPI was sold. And she was invited to make a complaint about the way PPI was 
sold. Halifax says it didnt get a reply from Miss G and so it sent a further letter to her on 5 
May 2014. I havent seen anything to suggest a complaint was made in response to that 
correspondence. 
Miss G then instructed a representative and a complaint was made to Halifax on 6 
November 2017. The grounds for that complaint were that PPI had been mis-sold and that 
the amount of commission Miss G paid on her PPI premiums was unfair.  
Halifax said it thought the complaint about the mis-sale was out of time. However, it offered 
to pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of Miss Gs PPI 
premium. It did this because it didnt tell Miss G about the high level of commission and profit 
share she would pay. Halifax agreed that failure to disclose was unfair.
The complaint about both the mis-sale and commission was referred to us on 9 April 2018. 
Halifax didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold (the alleged 
mis-sale) because it said the complaint had been referred to us too late.   
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Miss Gs complaint 
about how this policy was sold. And they thought Halifaxs payment in respect of commission 
was a fair way to resolve the complaint
Miss Gs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the matter couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Can I consider the mis-sale complaint? 
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that, 
where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint made: 
more than six years after the event being complained about, which would be the PPI 
sale in this case); or 
more than three years after the complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have 
been aware, of cause for complaint. This section applies where the complaint has 
been brought more than six years after the sale of PPI. 
These requirements are set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found 
online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. And in this case Halifax hasnt agreed 
I can consider the complaint.  
As I said above, Miss Gs complaint was made on 6 November 2017. This is more than six 
years after Halifax sold the policy to her in 2008, which is the event shes complaining about 
here. 
So, I next need to consider whether the complaint was made within three years of when Miss 
G should reasonably have been aware she had cause to complain. 
Halifax says it sent Miss G two letters in 2014  the latest was sent on 5 May 2017 - which 
alerted her to the possibility something might have gone wrong with the policy sale. Both of 
those letters were correctly addressed to Miss G at her residential address. And I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest she didnt get this correspondence. 
I can see that a significant ground of Miss Gs complaint is that the cost of the policy was not 
adequately disclosed. She also said that PPI was wrongly presented as part of a package 
alongside her loan. Miss G further complained that she was trying for a baby and that 
restrictions on cover potentially arising from that were not disclosed. I can see from the 
letters Halifax sent to Miss G that she was told: the cost of the cover should have been 
clearly disclosed; that it should not have been included with her loan without her expressing 
an interest in the cover; and that the impact of changes in circumstances should have been 
explained. 
On that basis and given what Miss G is complaining about, I think she should reasonably 
have been aware she had reason to complain when she got the letters from Halifax in 2014. 
Three years from the date of the second letter is 5 May 2017. This means Miss G needed to 
make the complaint about the policy sale by that date. As no complaint was made until 
November 2017, it is out of time under the rules I have to apply. 
I can still look into complaints made outside the time limits if Im satisfied the complaint was 
out of time because of exceptional circumstances. Those representing Miss G havent 
provided me with any reasons for the delay as such. Instead, it was argued that the 2014 
letter didnt deal with everything that went wrong with the PPI sale. But I dont consider it 
necessary for Halifax to have alerted Miss G to absolutely everything that could have gone 
wrong with the sale. Im satisfied she was on notice that something may have gone wrong in 
May 2014. On that basis, I cant reasonably say exceptional circumstances apply in this 
case. 
So Im sorry that were unable to help Miss G with the complaint about how this policy was 
sold.non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the 
failure to disclose resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, and if so, what would amount to fair compensation to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Halifaxs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Halifax didnt tell Miss G about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So I have taken into account: 
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure 
of commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court 
judgment in Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to 
disclose commission gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business 
expected commission and profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the 
policy; and
the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship 
between Halifax and Miss G was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act because Halifax didnt disclose the high levels of commission and 
profit share in this case 
With all of this in mind, I dont think Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Miss G because it failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider, in all the circumstances, what amounts to fair compensation to 
remedy the unfairness I have identified.
Miss Gs representative made several submissions about this part of the complaint including 
the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act 
on this complaint.
In summary, it was argued Miss G should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Halifax failed to tell Miss G about the high commission and profit-share rates paid; 
the low claims ratio; and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. It was further argued that 
these things meant the policy was poor value, and I should find that Miss G wouldnt have 
taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission. The representative 
submitted that Miss G should receive a refund of all the premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about 
whether the consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI 
policy had the commission been disclosed; 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipa court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to 
remedy the unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does 
not follow that a court would automatically order a return of all the premiums 
paid or conclude that a consumer would not have purchased the policy had 
the commission been disclosed; and
the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to 
merge the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules 
and guidance about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms 
handling PPI complaints) and that the impact of any undisclosed commission 
and any remedy caused by it should be considered at step 2.
I have taken into account the relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance. At this stage, 
my role as an ombudsman is to determine what would represent fair compensation to 
remedy the unfairness caused by Halifax not disclosing the high level of commission to Miss 
G before the policy was sold.
So, taking into account: 
the FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by 
the consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus 
interest in order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the 
level of commission; and
refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, 
in my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 
140B of the Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; 
I am not, as Miss Gs representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Halifaxs failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above. I think it was fair for Halifax to calculate compensation in line with 
the FCAs guidance and return some of the money Miss G paid for the PPI policy. I consider 
this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. 
So I am satisfied that Halifaxs offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
Im unable to consider Miss Gs complaint about how the policy was sold, because it was 
referred to us too late  and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the time limits was 
because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Bank of 
Scotland plc should pay Miss G an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) if it 
hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman