DRN-3853788
The complaint
Mrs H complains about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CGI) and 
their decision to decline the claim she made on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
On 13 April 2022, Mrs H took out a pet insurance policy underwritten by CGI to cover her 
dog, who Ill refer to as X. The cover on this policy began on 16 April.
On 30 April, Mrs H discovered a lump on Xs tail when brushing her. So, Mrs H pointed this 
out to her vet on the same day during a routine health check and vaccination appointment. 
The lump was diagnosed as a cornificated Keratin cyst, and surgery was advised. X 
underwent the surgery and following this Mrs H submitted a claim to CGI for the costs of the 
treatment.
But CGI declined Mrs Hs claim. Initially, they declined the claim stating the cyst had been 
diagnosed within the 14-day waiting period associated with the policy. But Mrs H challenged 
this, and CGI agreed the 14-day waiting period actually ended on 29 April, the day before. 
Despite this, CGI continued to decline the claim, stating their belief that the cyst was a pre-
existing condition that wouldve been present before the waiting period ended. Mrs H was 
unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs H thought CGIs decision to decline the claim was unfair. She explained she wasnt 
aware of the cyst before the 30 April, and she didnt think it was reasonable for expect her to 
have noticed beforehand due to the breed of dog X was. Mrs H explained X had been 
groomed in March and the groomer hadnt made her aware of any lump or cyst at that time. 
So, Mrs H thought the claim should be upheld. And she thought CGI should waive her 
excess fee of £90 to recognise the upset and inconvenience shed been caused.
CGI responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised they were incorrect 
when stating the 14-day waiting period ended on 30 April and they apologised for this. But 
they didnt think this meant the claim had been declined incorrectly. They referred to the 
vets diagnosis and the definition of cornification, which they felt showed the cyst wouldve 
been present during the waiting period. So, they thought they were fair to deem this a pre-
existing condition and decline the claim citing the associated exclusion set out within the 
terms of the policy. Mrs H remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He didnt think CGI were 
unreasonable to conclude that the cyst was likely present during the waiting period, based 
on the evidence hed seen. So, while he recognised why Mrs H would feel unfairly treated, 
he didnt think he could say CGI had applied the exclusion unfairly. And because of this, he 
didnt think CGI needed to do anything more on this occasion.
Mrs H didnt agree, and she provided detailed comments setting out why, alongside 
definitions of the term pre-existing and trust pilot reviews. In particular, Mrs H reiterated her 
belief that the exclusion was unfair as she had no knowledge of the cyst before 30 April and 
she didnt think the fact it was slow growing should supersede this. Mrs H didnt think it was 
fair for CGI, or pet insurance providers in general, to be able to exclude claims for pre-
existing claims that an owner such as herself had no knowledge of. So, she maintained her 
belief that the claim should be upheld. As Mrs H didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs H. I appreciate Mrs H 
took out the policy to ensure shed be covered financially in situations such as the one she 
found herself in. So, I can understand the upset and frustration she wouldve felt when CGI 
declined her claim, as this left her at a financial loss shed attempted to prevent. 
I also dont dispute Mrs Hs testimony that she wasnt aware of the cyst at the time she took 
out the policy, or before it was noticed on 30 April. I recognise CGI have also not disputed 
this testimony. So, as Mrs H noticed the cyst for the first time after the waiting period had 
ended, I can understand why she feels CGI acted unfairly by declining the claim under the 
pre-existing conditions exclusion.
But for me to say CGI should reverse the initial decline and accept the claim, or take some 
other form of action, I first need to be satisfied theyve done something wrong. So, Id need 
to be satisfied that they failed to act in line with the terms and conditions of the policy Mrs H 
held when they declined the claim. Or, if I think they did act within these, that CGI acted 
unfairly when doing so. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mrs H held. And these explain under the 
heading what is not insured? that any claim for illness or Accidental Injury that relates to a 
pre-existing condition isnt covered.
And the terms set out the definition of pre-existing as:
Pre-existing conditions means any diagnosed or undiagnosed condition and/or associated 
condition which has happened or has shown clinical signs or symptoms of existing in any 
form before the policy start date or within the waiting period.
In this case, its not disputed that the cyst was first noticed by Mrs H, and diagnosed by her 
vet, on 30 April 2022, which was outside of the 14-day waiting period that ended the day 
before. But Ive seen the vet notes from day of diagnosis. And this describes the cyst as:
Keratin cyst on the R middle part of the tail- longer than length- and cornificated.
I think this description makes it clear that the cornification of the cyst was a key part of the 
diagnosis. Ive seen the definition of cornification, which explains that it is a slow, co-
ordinated process in space and time.
So, I think the vet recording the cyst as cornificated suggests that the cyst had been present 
on Xs tail for a period of time before it was actually diagnosed. And as the waiting period was in the 14 days directly before the cyst was diagnosed, I dont think I can say CGI were 
unreasonable to decide that the cyst was present during the waiting period and so, classified 
as a pre-existing condition. And because of this, I think CGI acted within the terms of the 
policy when declining the claim, based on the exclusion surrounding pre-existing conditions.
But as I explained earlier within my decision, Ive also considered whether I think CGI were 
fair to rely on this exclusion on this occasion.
Mrs H doesnt think CGI were, explaining she had no reasonable way of knowing the cyst 
was present beforehand. And shes explained if she had of known, she wouldve remained 
with her previous insurer, rather than switching to the policy underwritten by CGI.
I think Mrs Hs testimony here is both reasonable and plausible, as I think it is likely she 
wouldve stayed with her previous insurer as this wouldve provided her with continuous 
cover where any pre-existing conditions wouldnt apply. But crucially, I dont think this means 
CGI have acted unfairly here.
The terms and conditions clearly state that a pre-existing condition can be either diagnosed, 
or undiagnosed. And further to this, it explains a condition can be classed as pre-existing if it 
has shown clinical signs, or symptoms, in any form within the waiting period.
So, whether a condition is deemed as pre-existing or not isnt necessarily determined by 
whether an owner, or someone else, has noticed the symptoms of a condition. Instead, it 
focuses more on whether any symptoms were present in any form. As Ive already referred 
to, Mrs Hs vet stated the cyst had cornificated. So, I think CGI were reasonable to assume 
that, for this to happen, the cyst wouldve been present on Xs tail for some time before it 
was noticed and diagnosed.
So, while I appreciate Mrs H only noticed the cyst when brushing X on the morning of 30 
April, I dont think this means the cyst wasnt there beforehand. In fact, based on the balance 
of probabilities focusing on the evidence and information I have available to me, I think it 
most likely was present on Xs tail for a period of time before it was noticed. And as the 
waiting period was directly before the diagnosis, I dont think I can say CGI have acted 
unfairly when declining the claim. Because of this, I dont think CGI need to do anything 
more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs H was hoping for. And I want to reassure Mrs H Ive 
considered all of the comments shes provided; alongside the significance of the amount 
shes looking to claim from CGI. But its not our services role to make determinations on the 
fairness of the pre-existing definition, as this would be the role of the industry regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority. Instead, its my role to consider the actions CGI have taken 
considering the individual circumstances of this claim alone, ensuring they were fair and in 
line with the terms of the policy. And I think they were on this occasion.
I note CGI accepted they initially said the waiting period extended into 30 April, when it 
ended on 29 April. This mistake has been accepted, and an apology offered. While I 
recognise this was an error on CGIs part, I dont think CGI need to do anything more 
regarding this as Im satisfied the claim was still excluded under the terms and conditions of 
the policy. So, while the exclusion reason has changed, Mrs H still finds herself in the 
position she wouldve been in, had CGI stated the correct exclusion initially. And while Mrs H 
says this impacted her decision to continue with the surgical procedure, I dont think Ive any 
evidence to suggest Mrs H wouldnt have continued with treatment. This is because the 
information she was given on the live chat was correct in that the waiting period ended on 29 
April. At no point in this conversation did Mrs H ask whether the claim would be declined for 
some other reason and I wouldnt have expected CGI to speculate on whether the claim would or would not have been covered until the treatment had been provided, and claimed 
for. And I note the vet recommended this treatment and I think its reasonable for me to 
assume Mrs H wouldve continued on the vets advice.
I also note Mrs H has also made reference to her unhappiness with CGIs decision to place 
an additional blanket exclusion for all lumps and associated skin conditions. This is a 
separate issue and Mrs H would need to raise this with CGI and allow them the chance 
respond before our service can consider this further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint about Casualty & General 
Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman