DRN-2859557
The complaint
Mr J has complained about the manner in which Acasta European Insurance Company 
Limited handled a claim on his guaranteed asset protection (GAP) policy.
Reference to Acasta includes its agents.
  
What happened
Mr J took out an Acasta GAP policy after buying a car. Some months later his car was 
stolen. He claimed from his motor insurer, which Ill refer to as P, for the loss of the car. He 
also claimed from Acasta for the difference between Ps total loss settlement and the 
purchase price of the car, as well as a contribution towards the excess payable on his motor 
policy.
P settled Mr Js claim for the loss of his car based on a value of £16,400. Acasta told Mr J 
that the only settlement he was entitled to under the terms of his GAP policy was a £250 
contribution towards his motor policy excess.
Mr J didnt think that was fair. He thought Acasta should pay him the difference between the 
market value of the car and its purchase price, which he said was around £20,100. He 
brought his complaint about that to us. 
I issued a provisional decision on 6 May 2021. For ease Ive copied the relevant extract 
below: I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Js policy says that in the event of a claim Acasta would pay him:
the difference between the purchase invoice price of the vehicle; (or if greater the finance 
settlement) and the total loss settlement paid under your motor insurance policy.
The policy also says it will pay up to £250 towards any excess Mr J has to pay on his motor 
insurance policy claim.
Its usual for motor insurers to base their total loss settlement figure on the market value of 
the car at the time of the loss. In this case P said the total loss value of Mr Js car was 
£16,400. But Acasta said the market value was around £17,653. So it asked P to increase its 
valuation by the £1,253 difference between the two valuations. In reply P said that, in fact, it 
assessed the market value of Mr Js car at £20,610. P explained that Mr Js policy didn't 
guarantee a total loss settlement based on market value. Instead it said the most it would 
pay was the estimated value Mr J had put on the car when he took the policy out. And as 
Mr J had valued the car at £16,400, that was how much P based its total loss settlement on.
Acasta said Mr J had undervalued his car when he took his motor policy out. It said if he 
hadn't done so P would have settle his claim for £20,600 [sic]. It said it must use the correct 
valuation of your vehicle to calculate the GAP claim settlement sum. In another email it 
told Mr J it can only adjudicate your claim based on the terms and conditions of your policy. 
But in this instance I'm not convinced Acasta has applied the terms and conditions of Mr Js 
policy appropriately.
Its not clear why Mr J gave an estimated value of £16,400 for his car when he took out his 
motor policy, as he'd only just paid considerably more for it. I note he says an insurance 
broker advised him to do that, although it's not clear why. But I don't think thats relevant as 
to whether or not Acasta should settle his claim based on the difference between the 
purchase price and Ps claim settlement.
As I've said above, its usual for motor insurers to settle total loss claims based on the 
market value of a car. But it seems Mr Js motor policy has a term which caps the settlement 
at the estimated value Mr J put on it, in this case £16,400. But Mr Js GAP policy doesn't say 
it will adjust any claim settlement in those circumstances. It clearly says it will settle the claim 
based on the difference between the motor insurers settlement and the purchase price on 
the cars invoice.
In this case I understand the invoice price for the car was £18,995. So, in line with the policy 
terms that would mean Acasta should settle Mr Js claim for (18,995  16,400) £2,595. And, 
as Ive said above, I can't find any policy term which says Acasta will reduce the value of a 
claim because the motor insurer has capped the amount of its pay-out based on estimated 
value or for another reason. So I don't think Acasta has settled Mr Js claim in line with the 
terms as set out in his policy. As, if it had, it would have paid Mr J the difference between the 
purchase price of the car and Ps total loss settlement, plus £250 for the contribution towards 
the policy excess. It follows that I think Acasta should settle Mr Js GAP claim in line with the 
policys terms now.
For completeness Ive noted Mr J said the purchase price of his car was more than £20,000. 
I haven't had sight of the invoice for the car and the purchase price I've quoted above is 
taken from Mr Js GAP policy schedule. But it's possible that the net price Mr J paid for his 
car also included some items not covered by his GAP policy. For example it wouldn't cover 
the costs of any insurance premiums. And the papers Ive seen indicate Mr J had added the 
costs of his GAP insurance premium, wear and tear cover and a paint protection policy to 
the total purchase price for the car. And that might explain the difference in the purchase 
price. But, for the avoidance of doubt, Acasta should settle Mr Js GAP claim for the 
difference between Ps settlement of £16,400 and the purchase price of his car, as defined in 
the policys terms and conditions. Further, unless it has already done so, in line with his GAP 
policy terms it should pay Mr J £250 towards his motor policy excess. And, as Mr Js been 
without the use of that money, I think Acasta should add simple interest to the settlement at 
a rate of 8% a year from the date of Mr Js claim to the date it makes payment.
Further I'm aware Mr J believes that Acastas decision to challenge Ps claim settlement 
delayed P from settling his motor claim. But I don't see why Acastas questioning of the 
market value of the car should have prevented P from making a prompt motor claim 
settlement. So I don't hold Acasta responsible for any delay with Ps settlement. That said, 
I don't think Acasta settled Mr Js claim fairly. And it's clear that its handling of the claim has 
been the source of distress and inconvenience for him. To address that I think it should pay 
him £100 compensation.
Developments 
Mr J accepted my provisional decision, Acasta didn't. It said that as Mr J had valued his car 
at £2,000 less than it was worth he would have paid a lower premium to his motor insurers. 
So it said it shouldn't be responsible for the shortfall. It added that the policy covers the 
difference between the motor insurance settlement, which would have been the £20,610.00 and the invoice value. But the motor insurer had deducted £4,210.00 from its settlement 
because Mr J had undervalued his car. It said Acasta wasnt responsible for the motor 
insurers deduction from its settlement. 
Acasta also said that a second-hand car wouldn't depreciate immediately after being sold, so 
the brokers advice to Mr J to lower its value when insuring it should be questioned. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to alter my provisional findings. 
As I said in my provisional decision Mr Js policy says it will pay the difference between the 
motor insurers settlement and the purchase price of his car. It's not in dispute that P 
reduced its settlement because of the value Mr J put on his car when he took out the 
comprehensive motor policy. But Mr Js GAP policy doesn't say it will adjust the amount the 
GAP policy pays out in those circumstances. Had it done so then it would have been 
reasonable for Acasta to reduce its settlement. But the policy doesn't allow Acasta to do that. 
And it needs to settle Mr Js claim in line with the terms and conditions of his policy. P didn't 
settle Mr Js claim for the loss of his car for £20,610, it settled it for £16,400. So the GAP 
policy should pay the difference between that settlement amount, £16,400, and the purchase 
price of Mr Js car. Thats the case even if Mr J paid a lower premium for his motor insurance 
policy. 
The GAP policy is clear on what it will pay in the event of a successful claim. So whether or 
not the insurance broker gave Mr J suitable advice about his motor policy simply isn't a 
factor in how Acasta should settle Mr Js GAP claim. So it's not something I need to look into 
when considering Mr Js complaint about how Acasta settled his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Acasta European Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Settle Mr Js claim in line with the terms of his policy as described above. It should 
add simple interest to its settlement, at a rate of 8% a year from the date of Mr Js 
claim to the date it makes payment.1
Pay Mr J £100 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman
1 If Acasta considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr J how much its taken off. It should also give him a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.