DRN-3268846
The complaint
Mr C complains about how British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) handled a claim 
under his home emergency cover.
What happened
Mr C has a Homecare policy with British Gas that provides cover for home emergencies, an 
annual service of a boiler and gas safety checks. The Homecare policy provides cover for a 
property Mr C rents to a tenant.
On 6 February 2021, Mr Cs tenant called British Gas as their boiler wasnt working. The 
tenant was told that the next available date an engineer could visit the property was 16 
February. British Gas told the tenant to ask Mr C to contact it so that it could explain its 
winter contingency measures that had been put in place due to covid rules and industrial 
action within British Gas.
Mr C rang British Gas on 12 February to discuss the matter and he was told that under the 
winter contingency measures he could organise his own repairer to fix the boiler and British 
Gas would reimburse him. Mr C was also told that British Gas would reimburse up to £50 for 
the purchase of a temporary heater. Mr C declined to take either of these options and made 
a complaint about British Gas service.
British Gas agreed with Mr C that its service was below what he would normally expect. It 
paid Mr C £50 as a gesture of goodwill for his inconvenience and said it was willing to 
discuss the amount paid if Mr C could provide more information. Mr C did not provide any 
further information so British Gas closed Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C remained unhappy with British Gas response and brought his complaint to this service. 
He is unhappy that British Gas didnt provide him with the service he expected and he asks 
for a refund of his annual premium.
An investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint and said that he thought British Gas had acted 
fairly and reasonably. He said that Mr Cs Homecare policy included this information about 
appointments:
Visiting you
Reasonable timescales
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you 
know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
During epidemics or pandemics, we will adhere to Government guidelines concerning 
restriction of non-essential travel and may have to reschedule your repair or visit until 
such time as the restrictions have been eased.
He said that British Gas provided no set timescales for engineers visits and he thought that 
seven working days was a reasonable length of time to wait. He also said that British Gas 
had acted fairly and reasonably by providing Mr C with other, quicker options that would 
have been reimbursed by British Gas so not leaving Mr C out of pocket. His view said that 
the £50 goodwill gesture was fair and he wouldnt ask British Gas to do anything more.
Mr C disagreed with our investigators view and asked for his complaint to be escalated to an 
ombudsman. As Mr C didnt agree with the view, the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold it, and Ill explain why.
Mr Cs key issue seems to be whether the terms and conditions that British Gas operates 
under are fair and reasonable. Im not able to comment on them being fair as they are 
approved by the Financial Conduct Authority. What I am able to decide is whether the 
business has followed the terms and conditions of policy and in Mr Cs case, I think it has.
Mr C remains unhappy with British Gas inability to provide him with service and I can see 
why, as he had paid a premium for its cover and at his time of need its service fell short. But 
I can also see that British Gas had already recognised that it had a shortfall in service 
delivery and provided its customers with other options, both of which meant that its 
customers shouldnt suffer a financial penalty. 
When Mr Cs tenant first reported the claim to British Gas, they were told about British Gas 
contingency plans due to covid rules, industrial action and a surge in demand. British Gas 
also says it asked the tenant to ask Mr C to contact it. 
Ive not been able to listen to either of the calls as British Gas have deleted them. But I have 
read a summary of them, in which I understand Mr C had two options explained to him 
because British Gas werent able to help him as quickly as he might like. Mr C declined both 
options, meaning that he chose to wait for British Gas to deal with the situation rather than 
seek potentially quicker assistance elsewhere, which British Gas said they would then 
reimburse so he wouldnt be out of pocket. 
On balance, I think British Gas goodwill payment of £50 for Mr Cs inconvenience is fair and 
reasonable and Im not going to ask it to pay more.
In his complaint, Mr C asks for a refund of his annual premium for the Homecare policy. 
British Gas provided Mr C with part of the service when it serviced Mr Cs boiler and carried 
out gas safety checks in October 2020. British Gas also say that its service problems have 
now been fixed so Mr Cs tenant was still benefiting from the cover provided under the 
policy. Because of these reasons, I dont think its fair to ask British Gas to refund the 
premium.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman