DRN-4323772
The complaint
Mr H complained about what happened when National Savings and Investments (NS&I) 
realised it had paid him prize money on bonds that NS&I later deemed ineligible to win 
prizes and restricted his access on another account until he agreed to allow the prize money 
to be recovered.    
What happened
In October 2021, Mr H had an existing premium bond account with a holding balance of 
£49,750 Ill call this PB1. He applied online and opened a second premium bond account 
with a purchase of £33,500  which Ill call PB2. This took Mr Hs total premium bond 
holdings over £50,000.
In monthly prize draws in December 2021 - March 2022, bond numbers in PB2 won a total of 
five £25 prizes. Mr H also made additional purchases between October- December 2021 
and on 14 March 2022, he closed his PB2 account when £38,625 was cashed in online.
In June 2022, a routine sweep of NS&Is system picked up that Mr H had held combined 
premium bond holdings that exceeded the maximum £50,000 premium bond limit each 
person is allowed. NS&I wrote to Mr H on 5 July 2022 telling him that his ineligible bonds 
had won prizes to which he wasnt entitled and asked him to pay back the £125.
It also added a block to Mr Hs accounts with NS&I. The block on his account prevented 
Mr H from carrying out any transactions  effectively, he was locked out of his money in 
PB1.
On 9 July 2022 Mr H told NS&I that he had understood, after first checking online, that he 
could open more than one premium bond account. He said he wouldnt be returning the 
money and he didnt give permission for NS&I to take money from PB1.
NS&I replied on 18 August 2022 explaining that the information about multiple accounts 
which Mr H had relied on didnt relate to premium bonds. In support of its position, NS&I 
referred him to terms and conditions (which it enclosed) and said any premium bond 
numbers that go over the £50,000 limit werent eligible to win prizes and it had the right to 
reclaim prizes paid in error. NS&I repeated its repayment request and told Mr H it would take 
the sum from his current premium bond holding if it didnt receive a reply within 21 days.
Mr H phoned NS&I on 5 September 2022 when he couldnt get access to his account to 
withdraw his money. On 8 September 2022, Mr H emailed NS&I to say hed sent a cheque 
for £125 but was concerned about a postal strike - he asked to be notified when his account 
was unlocked. He rang again on 12 September 2022 because he was still locked out of his 
account and he urgently wanted access to his money. 
The call handler talked Mr H through a couple of different options. He explained that Mr H 
could cancel the cheque hed sent and it was agreed that as Mr H had consented, he would 
request the deduction of £125 from Mr Hs premium bond holding and unblock the account 
so Mr H could access his money. The account block was removed allowing Mr H to transact 
again. 
The payment request was processed on 15 September 2022. But because NS&I had 
already banked his £125 cheque and Mr H had stopped payment, it received a Refer to 
Drawer message from Mr Hs bank which prompted NS&Is standard letter telling Mr H he 
needed to send a new cheque and application form if you still wish to purchase Premium 
Bonds. NS&I sent a further letter on 16 September 2022, to confirm that it had deducted 
the £125 from his remaining balance.  
NS&I didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint, saying that it hadnt made any error and it had followed 
correct process by adding the blocking to his account.
Mr H brought his complaint to this service and one of our investigators looked into what 
happened. She felt (in brief summary) that the complaint should be upheld because:
NS&I should have identification processes in places to prevent customers from 
opening multiple accounts, especially since its disallowed
Mr H had only been able to win £125 because NS&I had made an error when it let 
him open and keep the account for so long without this being identified
it wasnt proportionate for NS&I to block Mr Hs access to the £4,750 in his account 
when the sum of £125 was in dispute
this had been embarrassing and upsetting for Mr H and NS&I should pay £125 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by the restriction to his account.
Mr H agrees with the investigators findings  and he has sent in further information in 
support of his complaint. NS&I disagrees this is a complaint we should uphold. It mainly 
says:
Mr H was only able to open PB2 because he inputted initials instead of his full name
its unclear why he didnt try and add to his existing holding when trying to buy 
additional bonds and had he done so, the system would have prevented him 
purchasing £33,500
NS&I told him in early July 2022 what happened and he refused to comply
Mr H could have agreed earlier to pay back the £125 before his need for the money 
became urgent 
NS&I gave him plenty of notice of its intentions 
the money is owed to the rightful prizewinners so it wouldnt be right to set a 
precedent of upholding Mr Hs complaint 
what happened was a result of Mr H trying to get round the system.   
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
We provide an informal complaints handling service and this is reflected in the way Ive 
approached the complaint. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single issue 
raised because its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by the parties and reach an independent, fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. The crux of Mr Hs complaint seems to be that NS&I blocked his account without informing 
him, so I've thought carefully about the way NS&I acted in this matter.
The terms of the customer agreement Mr H agreed to when he opened his premium bond 
account PB2 say: Each person can hold up to a limit of £50,000. Any Premium Bond 
numbers that go over the £50,000 limit are not eligible to win prizes. If a number beyond the 
limit is drawn, and a prize paid in error, we have the right to reclaim it.
Normally, NS&Is system would have identified when someone exceeded their premium 
bond personal allowance. It had been possible for Mr H to exceed his personal limit because 
he had inputted slightly different details when applying online for his PB2 account which 
hadnt matched the information NS&I held on the system for him already in relation to PB1. 
How businesses choose to operate and their systems and processes are beyond my remit  
those matters come under the oversight of the regulator - the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). 
And I dont need to decide who was responsible for Mr H holding ineligible bonds as this 
makes no difference to the outcome. The fact alone that Mr H exceeded his £50,000 
personal limit meant NS&I was entitled to reclaim prize money that had been paid out to 
Mr H when his ineligible bond numbers had been drawn, in line with NS&I terms and 
conditions. So, I dont think NS&I made any error or treated him unfairly by asking him to 
repay the money.
I also think NS&I was within its rights to seek to recover the incorrectly paid out prize money 
from Mr Hs PB1 account. But, to my mind, it should have handled matters better than it did 
and provided Mr H with better customer service bearing in mind that NS&I still needed to act 
in a fair and reasonable way. For example, when NS&I wrote to Mr H on 5 July 2022 alerting 
him to what had happened and asking him to pay back the £125, it also added a block to Mr 
Hs PB1 account without telling Mr H it had done this. I dont think this was treating Mr H 
fairly  partly because I think NS&I should have been more transparent with Mr H and 
warned him it would do this or, at the very least, told Mr H it had done this. Also, I think NS&I 
was too quick to take action that had a potentially serious impact on Mr H, leaving him 
unable to access his money or operate his account at all, before any resolution had been 
explored, especially as there was an ample surplus in the account over and above the £125 
NS&I needed to recover. 
When Mr H told NS&I that he didnt agree to it taking the £125 there still wasnt anything in 
NS&Is next letter about his account being blocked. In fact, NS&I said it would take the 
payment within 21 days, so I dont think Mr H had any reason to think that he couldnt 
operate his PB1 account in the usual way and withdraw £1,000. Unsurprisingly, it came as a 
shock to Mr H when he found he couldnt withdraw any money from the account online. 
I think it was a serious service failing on NS&Is part when it took action without telling Mr H 
preventing him from operating his account, when he could have reasonably expected to be 
able to access the bulk of his £4,750 held in the account even if he was disputing the recall 
of £125 worth of prize money.
I think the situation was made worse during the phone call on 5 September 2022 when NS&I 
told Mr H contradictory information and failed to explain things better. The call handler 
initially told Mr H, more than once, that he would get the block removed. But after putting 
Mr H on hold and checking with a colleague, he told Mr H his account had some sort of 
blocking on the account and the only way Mr H could withdraw funds was by filling out a 
withdrawal form, which the call handler arranged to send in the post. During the call the 
following week, Mr H was told that the information hed been given about needing to complete and return a postal form hadnt been correct and there was an electronic form on 
the website that could be completed and processed much more quickly. I think NS&I could 
have provided a better service to Mr H during the call on 5 September, especially as Mr H 
made clear that he needed the money for particular spending requirements. 
And given the confusion there had been, it was unhelpful when NS&I later sent its standard 
letter in response to the stopped cheque as it was phrased in terms that didnt reflect the 
situation here  particularly as Mr H had discussed stopping the cheque during the phone 
call on 12 September. I think this letter wouldve likely added to his overall sense of 
frustration. 
For these reasons, given the shortcomings I have identified in the service NS&I provided to 
Mr H, I am upholding Mr Hs complaint.
I appreciate that NS&I feels that these events resulted from Mr Hs actions but, on balance, 
I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that it would be fair to hold him responsible 
for what happened. I understand that the information he provided on his PB2 application was 
accurate in all key respects and identical to the information NS&I held on his PB1 account, 
save in one respect only. NS&I has provided information that shows the different details Mr 
H inputted appear to match a style he uses on a bank account, so I can see why he might 
have done the same thing on his PB2 application. And I can understand why he might 
mistakenly not have realised, when he checked, that the £50,000 premium bond limit applied 
per person and that he couldnt have more than one premium bond account.    
Ive also taken into account what NS&I has said about what happened on other complaints. 
But each complaint is looked at on its own merits - Ive looked at the circumstances that 
apply in this particular case and what happened on other cases doesnt change my 
conclusion here.  
Taking everything into account, I consider that NS&I needs to put things right for Mr H.
Mr H was initially concerned that he would incur hefty overdraft costs as a result of not being 
able to access the money in his premium bonds. In the event, his overdraft costs are 
pennies only and I havent identified any other actual financial loss that NS&I should redress. 
But fair compensation needs to properly reflect the impact on Mr H of NS&Is poor service on 
this occasion and I've thought carefully about the extent to which this caused Mr H to suffer 
detriment. I've listened carefully to the call recordings which bear out the extent to which 
NS&Is poor handling of matters, as described above, caused Mr H significant distress and 
inconvenience. And Mr H has mentioned the indignity he suffered not only at going 
overdrawn for the first time, but at having to go back on his word and feeling like a fool 
who couldn't put his money where his mouth was. That said, Ive also kept in mind that it 
was always open to Mr H to resolve the complaint in the way he did sooner than happened, 
had he chosen to prioritise getting access to his money.  
Taking all this into account, the £125 suggested by the investigator matches the level of 
award I would make in these circumstances had it not already been proposed. I am satisfied 
this amount is in line with the amount this service would award in similar situations and it is 
fair compensation for Mr H in his particular circumstances. What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr H said he had nothing further to add and NS&I said it agreed with my findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and for responding to my provisional decision. Given that Ive not received any further 
evidence or comment that changes my mind about this complaint, I confirm the conclusions 
I reached in my provisional decision.Putting things right
To put things right for Mr H, NS&I should pay Mr H £125 compensation for the impact on him 
of the service failings I have identified. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct National Savings and Investments to take the steps I've 
set out above to put things right for Mr H. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman