DRN-3289678
The complaint
Miss O complains that the car supplied to her by Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) 
under a conditional sale agreement wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Miss O entered into a conditional sale agreement in January 2021 to acquire a used car. The 
car had a cash price of just less than £13,000, it was nearly 10 years old, and it had travelled 
nearly 95,000 miles at the point of supply.
Miss O says the car supplied by Moneybarn wasnt of satisfactory quality. She told us:
Within a month of taking the car, the tyres needed replacing;
she asked the manufacturer to look at the car and it told her that the cam belt hadnt 
been replaced; the car hadnt been serviced; and the front brakes were worn;
these things wouldve been picked up and rectified if the car had been correctly 
serviced by the dealership;
a week later the front brakes failed and Moneybarn sent an independent engineer to 
inspect the car. But the engineer wouldnt confirm that any of the issues or faults 
were present at the time the car was supplied;
recently an engine warning light has illuminated, but shes not been in a position to 
have this looked at yet.
Moneybarn told Miss O that it had investigated each of the things shed raised with it: worn 
brake pads; worn tyres and an overdue cam belt change. It said it had rejected her 
complaint, but it did pay Miss O £100 in recognition of the time it had taken to investigate 
and respond to her complaint.
Moneybarn explained that not all vehicles are sold fully serviced and it did not require them 
to be. And although the advertisement stated that full-service history would be provided with 
the car, it did not state that the vehicle would be serviced again before it was acquired by 
Miss O.
Moneybarn said it had reviewed an independent report supplied by Miss O herself. This 
report stated that although worn, and nearing the end of their in-service life, the brakes were 
within current MOT standards. And the service history showed that the cam belt had been 
replaced by an independent third party just three years earlier.
Moneybarn concluded the car had passed its most recent MOT just one week before Miss O 
acquired it; the car met current MOT standards; and no inherent fault was identified with the 
car by the independent engineer. And it said the issues Miss O had reported with the brakes 
and tyres were likely due to normal wear and tear and were commensurate with the age and 
mileage of the vehicle.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that he wasnt persuaded that there was actually a fault with the car. He said the 
state of the tyres and brakes was consistent with a vehicle of this age and mileage and that 
their condition was simply due to expected wear and tear. He said hed seen no evidence 
that the cam belt was actually faulty, just that the manufacturer said it shouldve been 
replaced four years previously. He did go on to say that he couldnt be certain that the cam 
belt had not in fact been changed. This was because the service book said the cam belt had 
been replaced in 2018 at an independent garage  something the manufacturers records 
wouldnt necessarily show. But in any event, he didnt think that the act of not changing the 
cam belt, if that were the case, made the car of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Finally, he explained he wasnt disputing what Miss O had said about the engine warning 
light, only that the absence of anything about it in either the independent engineers report or 
the manufacturers health check meant he couldnt reasonably conclude that there was an 
actual fault or, if there was a fault, whether any such fault would make the car of 
unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Miss O disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss O was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to investigate complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Moneybarn are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says goods must conform to contract within the first six months. So, where a 
fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when the car 
was supplied, unless Moneybarn can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Miss O to show it was present when the car 
was supplied. So, if I thought the car was faulty when Miss O took possession of it, and this 
made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Moneybarn to put 
this right.
Miss O says the tyres were worn and shouldve been replaced before the car was supplied 
to her. She also says the car was faulty because the independent report referenced the 
significant wear on the brakes. But I have to tell Miss O that I dont agree with her.
When Miss O took possession of the car, it was almost ten years old and had done nearly 
95,000 miles. Id expect to see substantial wear and tear in a vehicle of that age and 
mileage. And I think that any reasonable person would expect major components to need 
replacing much sooner than would be the case with a low mileage car, and for there to be 
costs associated with this.The independent report notes the state of the tyres, but it also goes on to confirm that they 
meet the legal requirements and would pass an MOT. The report says the wear on the 
brakes is high and that theyre nearing the end of their service life  but they also currently 
meet MOT requirements. And I understand that the car did indeed pass its MOT just a week 
or so prior to Miss O acquiring it.
The tyres and brakes are items that I wouldnt expect to last the lifetime of the car, and Id 
not be surprised if these needed replacing soon after supply given the age and mileage of 
the car. Because of this, and without any evidence to the contrary, Im satisfied their 
condition is due to normal in use wear and tear. And any need for their repair or replacement 
doesnt mean the car was of an unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied.
Next, Ive considered the matter of the cam belt and Miss Os complaint that it shouldve 
been changed some years earlier. But this in itself doesnt make the car of unsatisfactory 
quality  the complaint isnt that the cam belt is faulty or has failed  just that it shouldve 
been replaced.
The service history says the cam belt was replaced at the right time and the details of where 
and by whom are recorded. Miss O says that this didnt happen so the car was 
misrepresented to her. She told us in January that she would provide additional information 
to support this position, but to date, some four months later, she hasnt.
I find the service history persuasive not least because accompanying it is a 
contemporaneous note detailing some additional work that was undertaken at the same 
time. And, in the absence of any persuasive evidence or information that would allow me to 
reach a different conclusion, I do not consider I can do so. 
Finally, Ive considered the point Miss O makes about the engine warning light. But for the 
same reasons given by our investigator; the absence of any reference to a fault in either the 
independent engineers report, or the manufacturers own health check, its simply not 
possible for me to say that the car has a fault, never mind that this fault would make the car 
of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Given the above, Im satisfied that, under the CRA, the car was of a satisfactory quality when 
it was supplied to Miss O. And, although shes had issues and concerns with the car since 
supply, these are more likely than not a result of ongoing wear and tear, given the age and 
mileage of it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman