DRN-3773308
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O have complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) rejected their 
claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to their 
purchase of some solar panels.
Background
Mr and Mrs O bought solar panels for their home in November 2014. The purchase was 
funded by a 15-year loan from Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the acts 
and omissions of the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the 
installer misleading Mr and Mrs O into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which 
they werent.
Mr and Mrs Os complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the 
benefits of the panels were mis-represented to Mr and Mrs O, and that fair redress would be 
for the loan to be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure 
should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of 
assumptions on future performance. Shawbrook didnt substantively respond by the 
deadline, so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr and Mrs O were not given clear 
information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate 
to an additional cost for them.
I have looked at the installers contract and solar quote, and neither document made it clear 
that the panels would not pay for themselves. Both documents gave the cash price of the 
panels as £7,980, and the total estimated income and savings from the panels in the first 
year as £986.77. But neither document gave the total cost including the loan interest, which 
was £15,607.80, meaning that the panels would not make enough to cover the cost of the 
loan payments during the 15-year loan term. The total cost was given in the loan agreement 
of course, but since the true cost and benefits of the panels were not given together in a 
single document, it is not implausible that the salesman told Mr and Mrs O that the panels 
would pay for themselves, and so I have no reason to doubt their testimony about that. I am 
reinforced in that conclusion by the fact that the quote says that the estimated payback 
time of the panels is seven years, but that only relates to their cash price; it would actually 
take longer than the loan term for the panels to pay for the cost of the loan.
For these reasons, I accept that a misrepresentation was made and that this induced Mr and 
Mrs O to purchase the panels. Its true that they could have discovered the true position by 
comparing the contract or the quote with the loan agreement. But it is not a defence to 
misrepresentation to show that the misrepresentee could with due diligence have discovered 
the misrepresentation for themselves.
So I think that Shawbrook should have upheld Mr and Mrs Os claim under section 75.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Os complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by 
recalculating the original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr 
and Mrs O from the solar panels over the 15 year term of the loan so they pay no more than 
that, and they keep the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the calculation shows that Mr and Mrs O are paying (or have paid) more than they should 
have, then Shawbrook needs to reimburse them accordingly. Should the calculation show 
that the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be 
shared with them by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Shawbrook 
to restructure the loan. They must recalculate the loan to put Mr and Mrs O in a position 
where the solar panel system is cost-neutral over the 15 year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr and Mrs Os monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would have paid more each month than they should have done, 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as they would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, Shawbrook must add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr and 
Mrs O have the following options as to how they would like their overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
continue to make their current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
pay a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs O and they continue to make their 
current monthly payment resulting in their loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs O and they pay a new monthly 
payment until the end of the loan term.
If Mr and Mrs O accept my decision, they should indicate on the acceptance form which 
option they wish to accept  a, b, c or d.
If Mr and Mrs O have settled the loan, Shawbrook must pay them the difference between 
what they paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 
interest at 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs O have settled the loan by refinancing, they should supply evidence of the 
refinance to Shawbrook, and then Shawbrook must: 
1. Refund the extra Mr and Mrs O paid each month with the Shawbrook loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs O receive their 
refund.3. Refund the extra Mr and Mrs O paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs O 
receive their refund.
5. Pay Mr and Mrs O the difference between the amount now owed and the amount 
they would have owed if the system had been self-funding.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr and Mrs O first 
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that 
Shawbrook must pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Shawbrook Bank Limited to put things 
right in the way I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman