DRN-3452427
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc has not met its obligations in regard to a transaction 
he made on his credit card to get out of a Timeshare agreement.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr S, who had previously owned a Timeshare type agreement, engaged a 
Timeshare Relinquishment services firm (which I will call Firm T). It said could help assess 
his claim about the timeshare, make investigations, provide advice, and potentially support 
and advise on a legal claim about the timeshare. It would provide this service for a fee.  So 
Mr S paid Firm T by credit card the initial amount of £4612. Firm Ts documentation makes 
clear it would introduce him to other firms which provided related services.
Mr S says he never received any real services or refund from Firm T. He says hes paid for 
services he didnt get. He tried to get his money back from Firm T but was unsuccessful. So 
he complained to Santander and it responded to him in October 2020 and subsequently.
Santander looked into the matter and considered that Mr S hadnt demonstrated that Firm T 
had breached the contract agreed or made misrepresentations to him. So it couldnt say his 
claim was successful so it said it wouldnt refund the amounts hed paid. So he brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our Investigator considered the matter and found that Santander hadnt done anything that 
led to Mr S losing out because of what it had done. Mr S still hasnt had his money back and 
is still unhappy and accordingly this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make it very clear that this decision is not about Firm T or other firms like it or that 
Mr S has had dealings with. This decision is solely about what Santander did or didnt do in 
relation to its obligations. And it should be remembered that Santander are only involved in 
this issue as a result of its managing Mr Ss credit card account which he used for this 
transaction to Firm T. In essence the test I must consider is whether the transactions were 
made correctly, and whether Santanders position in regard to Chargeback and Mr Ss 
Section 75 claim to it under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 was fair.
I note Mr S has a similar complaint at this service about the timeshare itself. All issues 
relating to that will be dealt under that complaint reference. This decision only deals with 
Santander and the timeshare relinquishment services Mr S paid for using his Santander 
card.
Ive considered everything that has happened here and unfortunately for Mr S his complaint 
about Santander fails largely for the reasons explained to Mr S already. I shall explain why.
Mr S doesnt contest that he made the transaction originally, or that it was applied incorrectly 
to his account. Ive considered the transaction and Im satisfied Santander didnt do anything 
wrong in processing it or allocating that amount to his account.
could Santander challenge the transaction through a chargeback?
 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr S does 
here, Santander (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through the Chargeback process 
operated by the card scheme (which isnt Santander here). So Santander isnt the final 
arbiter in whether the Chargeback is successful-the card scheme is. And Chargeback isnt a 
right, but this Service does consider it good practice to raise a Chargeback if within the time 
limits and there is a reasonable prospect of success.
I dont think Santander couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr S didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given that Mr S freely accepts he made it for this service from Firm 
T by using his Santander credit card. And Im not persuaded it has been wrongly applied to 
his account.
Secondly the Card Scheme used here has rules as to how and when Chargebacks can be 
raised to challenge transactions. The rules are clear on the timeframes applicable and I can 
see that between when Mr S made the transactions in 2019 and when he raised the issue 
with Santander in October 2020 there is a substantial time span. And this timespan is 
significantly outside the timeframes set out in this particular card schemes rules. As it is so 
far out of time and thus didnt have a reasonable prospect of success, I dont think 
Santander has treated Mr S unfairly by not pursuing a chargeback once it was on notice of a 
dispute here. 
how about the Consumer Credit Act 1974? 
Mr S used his credit card with Santander for the transactions. This means Santander has 
certain responsibilities to Mr S which arise from the relevant law, specifically, Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act). There is no need for me to go into great detail 
about how this operates, but in summary Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr S to hold 
Santander liable for breaches of contract by Firm T, or material misrepresentations made by 
it in relation to the agreement made. But Santander are only liable if breach of contract or 
material misrepresentation by Firm T is made out. It is not responsible for Firm Ts conduct 
wholly, but rather only if either of these two areas are made out.
It is clear that Mr S is very much of the opinion that Firm T breached the contract which led 
to him losing out. But before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here 
there are some requirements set out in the Act which also have to be met before these 
issues can be considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having 
considered these I think on balance that Mr Ss claim meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the Act for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. Ive 
considered what has happened here and Im satisfied that this dispute regarding this credit 
card transaction meets the prerequisites for a claim to have the opportunity of being 
successful.
So was there breach of contract or material misrepresentation?
Mr S has provided a number of documents relating to what was agreed with Firm T. These 
documents provide no guarantees of results or timelines of what will be provided. And seeing as it is Mr Ss representatives that have provided it on his behalf Im satisfied it is 
what was agreed at the time.
I can also see that Firm T has liaised with Mr S and other parties in relation to his Timeshare 
after it entered this agreement with Mr S. I can see Santander has made investigations into 
Firm T and other parties. I can see correspondence between Santander and a company Ill 
call Firm O. In this correspondence it is confirmed that Firm O was acting on behalf of Mr S. 
That many hours of work have been completed by them (which does tie in with the
above emails, in the sense that some work was being done) and that Firm O had explained 
that they referred this matter to a third party, and that they have placed the original timeshare 
claim matter with a London Law Firm in December 2020 and that they are dealing with the 
matter on a no win no fee basis.
So it is clear to me that Santander had looked into the matter and could see evidence of 
Firm T providing service to Mr S and that other parties Firm T had liaised with were taking 
matters forward. And in the course of Santanders investigations it had not found persuasive 
evidence of breach of contract or material misrepresentation which Mr S had relied on to his 
detriment. And as a consequence I can see why Santander didnt refund Mr S the 
transaction.
I should also add that in bringing a like claim under S75 it is for Mr S, and his 
representatives, to enable Santander to understand the dispute and it is in Mr S interests to 
provide any evidence showing breach or misrepresentation they have to Santander so it can 
fairly consider the matter alongside its own inquiries.
Although Mr S has provided documentation from his dealings with Firm T he has not 
demonstrated persuasively any breach of contract. And Mr S representatives arguments on 
the matter are distinctly unpersuasive. I shall comment on them now.
Mr S representatives say Firm T could not carry-out any regulated claims work which I 
take to mean Regulated Claims Management Activity. Firstly Im not necessarily persuaded 
that this is the case because it seems clear Firm T were in essence only acting as an 
introducer to firms that could make such claims. Secondly if Firm T were making in essence 
illegal contracts then that wouldnt be a breach and thus Santander couldnt be liable under 
S75 for such. Thirdly Santander can only be liable under S75 for breach and 
misrepresentation neither of which are made out here considering that services were 
provided. And for these reasons I dont think this argument is persuasive.
And as a further point although not as weighted in my thinking as the reasons already given. 
Whether or not there was a misrepresentation here Im not persuaded that Mr S lost out as a 
result. I say this because Firm O has said to this service that I cannot see where the s75 
matter falls in the favour of (Mr S) in this case, it cannot be said that (Firm T) failed to place 
the claim; if he had cooperated he would have had success. So it seems clear that in Firm 
Os opinion the reason that Mr S claim wasnt successful in this claim was because Mr S 
didnt cooperate. And Firm O could take such a claim forward, but Mr S didnt pay Firm O 
he paid Firm T. So I dont think Santanders position of not agreeing there was a material 
misrepresentation here was wrong. And in any event Santander wouldnt be responsible for 
Firm Os actions as it wasnt part of the required relationship for Santander to be liable for its 
actions under S75.
Mr S representatives also argue that Firm T didnt complete the contract within a reasonable 
time. It is clear from the evidence that it was clear to Mr S that there was no guaranteed 
timeline of delivery. And the emails show that the guidance given as to expected timescales 
was a year at least. And there is Firm Os comments on the matter that Mr S actions meant 
that its progress was inhibited by his lack of cooperation. And lastly Firm T clearly did introduce Mr S to these parties who were to take matters forward. So it seems it did do what 
it said it would in this regard within a reasonable time. And when Santander considered the 
claim was some time ago and still within what I consider to be within a reasonable time for it 
to perform its side of the contract (which had no specified delivery date).
I can see our Investigator has been in contact with various parties. This includes the resort 
where the timeshare was who have confirmed that his agreement was ended many years 
ago due to Mr S not paying the required fees. So it seems likely that there would also be 
time barring issues likely to come into consideration as well. And Ive seen no persuasive 
evidence of any mechanism in what was agreed that entitled Mr S to his payment back. So 
there is no breach there either.
Santander obligations here are to consider Mr Ss s75 claim to it and if breach of contract or 
material misrepresentation are made out to redress the matter as if it were the supplier (Firm 
T) here. Santander is not responsible for the customer service of Firm T. It can only be held 
responsible for losses as a result of breach of contract or misrepresentation. Ive seen no 
persuasive reason to conclude there was a breach of contract or a misrepresentation here 
by Firm T. And when our Investigator put similar views to Mr S and his representatives, his 
representatives didnt put forward any new evidence or any persuasive counter arguments.
As a consequence of everything that happened here I dont think Santander has treated Mr 
S unfairly. Ultimately Firm T did liaise with Mr S and other parties. There simply isnt 
persuasive evidence to show the contract was breached by Firm T or that it was materially 
misrepresented to him. So having considered everything that has happened here Im not 
persuaded that Santander has treated Mr S unfairly. And consequently Mr Ss complaint is 
unsuccessful.
I can see Santander felt it didnt provide excellent customer service to Mr S and it paid £100. 
I think thats fair in the circumstances.
I do appreciate that this isnt the decision Mr S wishes to read. And Im sorry he finds himself 
in this position and he clearly feels that Firm T hasnt treated him fairly. But this isnt 
something Santander should be responsible for, and thus this complaint does not succeed.
My final decision
It is my decision that this complaint about Santander UK Plc should not be upheld. It has 
nothing further to do in regard of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman