DRN-2361067
The complaint
Miss R has complained about the way Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) has administered
her running credit facility.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. Drafty didnt provide a 
response to the adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Miss Rs complaint should be upheld in part but 
for slightly different reasons to our adjudicators. A copy of the background to the complaint 
and my provisional findings follow this and form part of this final decision:
What I said in my provisional decision:
It seems Miss R has had some problems making repayments towards her running account
facility. She explained these difficulties to Drafty at the end of January 2020.
In summary, Miss R has said that:
at times she has been unable to log in to her online account and make payments
because her email address wasnt recognised;
there was a delay by Drafty in resetting her online password and updating her email
address so she could continue to make payments;
a month after the online account had been reinstated, Drafty said it wasnt able to
collect the facilitys monthly repayment because of a glitch in its collection system;
because of the glitch, Drafty told her to make an online payment but she was unable
to and so Drafty suggested making bank transfer payments;
when Drafty indicated her online account issues were resolved in March2020, she
logged into her account but was still not able to make payments;
she may have incurred additional interest by making payments by bank transfer; and
the payment difficulties have had a negative impact on her credit score as the
payments are showing up as late or missed and this has affected her ability to get
a mortgage.
Miss R also asked Drafty why her running account facility had been suspended. 
Drafty responded to Miss Rs complaint on 19 March 2020. It explained that the facility had
been suspended following a periodic assessment of her account. Drafty also said that Miss
Rs account was Active with an outstanding balance of £83.27.
At this point Miss R said she had already made a final payment to clear the account balance
on 16 March 2020. She also explained to Drafty the online account wasnt active and was
still concerned that she may have incurred additional interest.
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Rs complaint. She thought that Drafty should remove
any negative information it may have reported on Miss Rs credit file due to late payments
from December 2019 onwards. The adjudicator said that whilst it wasnt clear why Miss R
couldnt make payments through the online account, Drafty shouldve been aware that bank
transfer payments would take 7 to 10 days to show on its system.
Neither Miss R or Drafty have responded to the adjudicators assessment.
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time Miss R has complained about the administration of her account.
One of the difficulties with this complaint is that Drafty hasnt responded in any detail to the
complaint points that Miss R has made about the repayment problems that she experienced.
As a result, its unclear to me whether it disputes Miss Rs version of events.
Miss R on the other hand has given a plausible explanation of the difficulties that she has
experienced and provided this service with documentary evidence of the timing of the
payments she made over the period when the main difficulties arose. I understand the
possible late payments Miss R refers to are the ones paid in January and March 2020.
suspension of the running account facility
Drafty has explained that it suspended credit following a periodic assessment of the running
account. It considered that further use of the facility might result in financial difficulties for
Miss R.
As a responsible lender, I dont think it was unreasonable for Drafty to suspend Miss Rs
credit if it thought that further use of the facility may result in financial difficulty. The credit
agreement does make it clear that Drafty would review the limit and that there might be
circumstances where it could be changed.
Drafty has also apologised for any inconvenience that may have been caused by the
suspension which I think was a reasonable response.
administration of the running account facility
From what I can see, Miss R was clearly making every effort to make repayments to the
running account facility. Miss R raised her concerns at the end of January 2020 and when
Drafty issued its final response on 19 March 2020, she replied straight away to explain that
the online account was still suspended. Miss R has provided a screenshot for the account at
that point which appears to show that she couldnt make a minimum payment towards the
facility.
I can also see that on 27 February 2020 Drafty contacted Miss R to explain that the issue
regarding your online payments has been fixed. So, it does appear that Drafty agreed that
there had been an accepted glitch (as Miss R has mentioned) in its payment collection
system. And this didnt seem to have been resolved by 19 March 2020 when Miss R logged
into her account.
I understand that Drafty had also cancelled Miss Rs direct debit, for reasons unknown. And
with the online account not accepting payments, Miss R therefore made payments by banktransfer. Miss R has told us it was Drafty who suggested making payments by bank
transfer, which I dont think was unreasonable.
Miss R has provided this service with evidence that she made transfers of £30, £20 and
£82.85 on 31 January 2020, 3 March 2020 and 16 March 2020 respectively. I cant see that
the first two payments are reflected in the account statements provided by Drafty and the
third payment doesnt appear to have been credited to the account until 12 May 2020.
As I understand it, the account balance was cleared by Miss R and that ultimately all three of
these payments were credited towards the facilitys repayment. From what Drafty has said in
its final response, the account balance at 19 March 2020 was £83.27. And it seems this
didnt take into account the payment of £82.85 Miss R paid on 16 March 2020 until nearly
two months later.
Given interest is added to the facility daily, it does seem likely that the payment made by
Miss R on 16 March 2020 was, as she has suggested, likely to have been the final payment
that she needed to make to repay the outstanding balance at that point. The slight increase
between the two dates probably being the additional daily interest that was added because
the payment of £82.85 hadnt been credited to the account.
From what I can see, Draftys account summary does show that it waived £10.07 in interest
at some point. But its unclear why. It may be that following the three payments Ive
mentioned above Drafty realised the account should already have been cleared, and this
was simply a retrospective adjustment to close the account.
I think it would reasonable though for Drafty to check to ensure that Miss R hasnt paid any
additional interest because the payments she made on 31 January 2020, 3 March 2020 and
16 March 2020 were credited to the account late.
In the absence of any persuasive evidence from Drafty that Miss R could reasonably have
made payments to the online account from 1 December 2019, I also agree with our
adjudicator that it should remove any negative information it may have reported on
Miss Rs credit file due to late payments from this point.
I can appreciate it will have been troubling for Miss R that she wasnt able to make payments
as readily as she shouldve been able to  and understandably, she isnt sure if additional
interest has been added to her account because of late recording of the bank transfer
payments. And it appears Drafty has accepted, to an extent, that it hasnt administered the
account properly.
As a result of the impact on Miss R caused by Draftys maladministration, Im intending to
award a payment for trouble and upset of £100.
Miss R has also said that she was unable to obtain a mortgage because of the reporting of
missed payments. I can appreciate this will have inconvenienced Miss R although Im not
clear if she will have suffered any financial loss because of the mortgage being declined or if
the mortgage was declined solely because of the recording of late/missed payments by
Drafty on her credit file. So, I cant identify any direct loss in respect of a mortgage
application that can be said to be either solely or even mainly the result of Draftys mistakes.
Miss R can let me have any evidence should would like me to consider in response to this
provisional decision if she would like me to review this point further.
Considering everything, I have provisionally found that Drafty hasnt administered
Miss Rs running account facility properly. And Im intending that Drafty should put things
right as set out below.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Drafty and Miss R have agreed with the findings in my provisional decision.  And no 
further comments or evidence has been provided for me to consider. 
Ive therefore see no reason to depart from the findings I reached in my provisional decision. 
And I still think Miss Rs complaint should be upheld and Ive outlined below what Drafty 
needs to do to put things right.
Putting things right
To put things right for Miss R, Drafty should:
ensure that the repayments made on 31 January 2020 (£30), 3 March 2020 (£20) 
and 16 March 2020 (£82.85) have been credited on these dates  if they havent, 
Drafty should rework the account and calculate whether Miss R has overpaid any 
interest and refund any overpayment to her;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information recorded about the facility on Miss Rs credit file 
from 1 December 2019;
pay Miss R £100 for trouble and upset caused.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. It must give
Miss R a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Miss Rs 
complaint.
Gain Credit LLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman