DRN-4032232
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that a renewal notice sent to them by U K Insurance Limited, trading 
as Direct Line (UKI), contained incorrect information which led to a claim they made with 
their new insurer being settled proportionately.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs F jointly held a home insurance policy underwritten by UKI. But our services 
primary communication throughout the complaint has been with Mr F. So, while everything I 
say in this decision applies to both Mr and Mrs F, Ill refer only to Mr F from hereon.
Mr F is unhappy that a renewal notice he received from UKI stated he had five years claim 
free. Mr F didnt renew and instead took out cover with another provider. Based on UKIs 
renewal notice he declared five years of no claims to the new provider.
When Mr F needed to claim on his new policy, the new insurer found that hed had two 
claims within the past five years which he hadnt declared. So, it proportionately reduced the 
settlement due to him. Mr F would like UKI to cover the shortfall, as he feels it is responsible 
for the incorrect information he gave his new insurer.
UKI says Mr F had five years no claims bonus when he made two claims in 2019  which 
resulted in him losing two years no claims bonus. But by the time of the 2022 renewal, UKI 
had increased the no claims bonus back to five years as there had been no further claims 
since 2019. So, UKI says there was no error on the renewal notice as it did not state five 
consecutive years without claims. It also says it was Mr Fs responsibility to check the 
accuracy of the information and that the claims were relatively recent (within three years of 
the renewal notice) so it would be reasonable to expect Mr F to remember them.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Fs complaint should be upheld. She said the renewal notice 
wasnt a factual document. Rather, Mr F was required to check and confirm the accuracy of 
the information. She said it wouldnt be fair to hold UKI responsible for Mr Fs failure to 
provide his new insurer with accurate information about his claim history.
Mr F didnt accept our investigators findings. So, as no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:
When taking out the new insurance policy, it was Mr Fs responsibility to take 
reasonable care to provide accurate information about his claims history to the new 
insurer.
Given the renewal notice was sent in 2022 and the claims were in 2019, I agree its 
not unreasonable to expect Mr F to remember they happened, even if not specifically 
when they happened. And as Mr F has himself stated that he keeps meticulous 
records, he could have taken reasonable care to check the accuracy of the 
information he was giving the new insurer by checking his personal records, instead 
of relying on a document from UKI which stated that information within it may not be 
correct. Heres what the renewal notice said:
All you need to do now
1. Check the Schedule
..
If the details are incorrect in any way please call us as soon as possible so we 
can make sure your cover isnt affected.
I do agree that the wording on the renewal notice could have been clearer, as it 
stated Mr F was five years claim free, rather than stating he had five years no claims 
discount. However, the renewal notice told Mr F to check the accuracy of the 
information and to correct anything which was incorrect. So, as it indicated 
information may not be correct, I cant reasonably hold UKI responsible for Mr Fs 
decision to rely on it when providing information to his new insurer.
 
Ultimately, I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable to hold UKI responsible 
for the incorrect information Mr F gave the new insurer or to direct it to cover the 
shortfall in the claim he made with the new insurer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman