DRN-2371353
The complaint
Mr C complains Think Insurance Services Limited (Think) mis-sold a legal expenses 
insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr C bought a motor trade insurance policy through Think and paid extra for legal expenses 
cover. Mr C was told the legal expenses policy would provide full cover to him up to 
£100,000. 
Mr C was unfortunately involved in an accident and suffered quite severe injuries. He went to 
claim under his legal expenses insurance policy only to be told he didnt have the correct 
cover. Mr C was referred to a firm of solicitors and entered into a no win no fee 
arrangement. In the event of a successful claim under this arrangement, a fee of up to 18% 
of any settlement would be deducted before any monies are paid to Mr C.
Mr C complained to Think, he said he specifically asked for full legal expenses cover, as he 
always takes this out on his private motor policies. He added that as he was only just starting 
out as a motor trader, he wanted to ensure he was fully covered should anything happen. He 
said Think had mis-sold the policy to him and he had lost out as a result.
Think didnt uphold the complaint, it said Mr C was sold a legal expenses policy as he asked 
for. It added the no win, no fee arrangement was explained before Mr C entered into it. It 
said the sales call was no longer available, but its adviser read out a script which explains 
what the policy covers. It didnt think the policy had been mis-sold. Mr C disagreed and 
brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Cs complaint. She said the script Think says its adviser would 
have read out to Mr C didnt make it clear exactly what the policy provided cover for. She 
added that the only documentation provided to Mr C said he had cover up to £100,000. She 
was satisfied that had Mr C been made aware the policy didnt provide full cover, he wouldnt 
have taken the policy and obtained one elsewhere. To put things right she recommended 
Think, refund the premium Mr C had paid for the legal expenses policy and that it should 
reimburse Mr C the amount he had to pay out for a new after the event insurance policy 
and pay an equivalent amount to Mr C of any deduction made to his settlement due to the 
success fee. 
Think disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint. In doing so it 
reiterated the points it had previously made.
The case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C purchased the policy in his capacity as a sole trader. Whether the policy was part of an 
advised or non-advised sale doesnt make a difference to my decision here as in both 
instances, Think were required to provide information to Mr C that was clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Think have explained the sales call is no longer available and there are differences between 
the parties accounts as to what was discussed during that call.  Where the evidence is 
incomplete or inconclusive, as some of it is here, I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened, in light of the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Think has said its adviser was required to read a script to Mr C explaining what the legal 
expenses policy covered. It says the adviser would have explained the following:
In the event of a Non-fault claim the following maybe covered:
Compensation for death or personal injury
Car Insurance Excess under a Comprehensive Policy
Accident Repair Costs if you do not have fully comprehensive cover
Damage to your clothes, luggage or belongings
Loss of Earnings
Attempt to arrange a courtesy vehicle where applicable
Mr C says he asked the adviser if the policy covers everything and was assured it was the 
exact same type of policy he would get on a private basis. 
Ive also looked at the documents Mr C was provided with when he took out the policy. Mr C 
was only provided with a one-page schedule which stated it was for Motor Legal Expenses 
which attaches to and forms part of the contract for insurance. It provided a policy number, 
start and end dates, confirmed Mr Cs name and address and said the Maximum amount 
was £100,000. 
The policy document for the motor trade policy included a small section on page 7 titled 
Legal Expenses which says  The company may at the request of the insured, arrange and 
pay legal defence costs up to a sum not exceeding £1000 in the event of proceedings for 
manslaughter or reckless or dangerous driving causing death being taken against any 
licenced driver in respect of any death which maybe the subject of indemnity under Section 1 
of this insurance. This appears however to be about a separate offering the motor trade 
insurer provides as part of that policy. 
Having considered everything, I dont consider that Think provided Mr C with clear, fair and 
not misleading information about what the legal expenses policy covered. I havent seen any 
evidence which persuades me Mr C was given information about its significant features or 
limitations. The legal script the adviser was supposed to read to Mr C says the policy 
provides compensation for death or personal injury, however in reality a claim for personal 
injury would require a separate arrangement with a solicitor and would involve a success fee 
deduction. So, it wasnt actually cover that was provided by the policy.
Given the reasons set out above, in my judgement the legal expenses policy was mis-sold to 
Mr C by Think.
Ive therefore gone on to consider what would have happened if Mr C was given the correct 
information about the cover the policy provided. 
Mr C has provided evidence of previous personal motor policies he has had, and I can see they all have quite comprehensive legal expenses cover. Given Mr C was just starting out in 
the motor trade and chose to add legal expenses insurance as an additional policy, shows to 
me that this is something important to him. He has also explained hed previously been in a 
motor accident and had to make use of a legal expenses policy, so he always makes sure 
he takes one out. Having considered what Mr C has said and provided to me, Im persuaded 
that had he realised the limitations of the policy Think offered, he wouldnt have purchased it 
and would have found another policy elsewhere more suited to his needs.
I think it is more likely than not therefore Mr C would have found and taken out a policy 
which provided cover for claims for personal injury. And, except for potentially paying an 
excess amount, Mr C would not have had to pay anything further or had any deductions 
made from any successful claim settlement.
Ive considered Thinks point that Mr C didnt have to enter into the arrangement with the 
solicitor however I question what else was he meant to do. He found out he didnt have the 
cover he thought he had; hed suffered quite severe injuries and needed to pursue a claim. 
He was given the details of the solicitor firm by a company working alongside Think which 
deals in non-fault claims and it is unlikely he would have been able to obtain cover at such a 
late stage on more favourable terms. I dont therefore think Mr C should bear any 
responsibility here for having to enter into the agreement due to Thinks error.  
To put things right, Think should put Mr C in the position he would have been had he taken 
out a different policy which would have covered the claim he has now had to make. 
A policy premium would always have been payable, so I decide that Think may retain the 
£50 it charged for its legal expenses policy. Ive also considered the fact Mr C may have had 
to pay an excess to make a claim under another policy. However, this amount can vary, and 
some policies do not require an excess payment to be deducted. Because this is so 
uncertain, I wont be suggesting any deduction be made from any settlement Think has to 
pay to Mr C in lieu of an excess payment. Think will therefore need to cover the additional 
costs Mr C has incurred due to the arrangement with the solicitor and cover any deductions 
made from the settlement Mr C is paid. 
Mr C has set out his circumstances immediately after the accident and the stress this matter 
caused him at a time when he was recovering from his injuries. I dont doubt this matter 
would have had an impact on Mr C however I can see despite the issues with the policy, he 
did obtain legal representation quite quickly and was able to move forward with his personal 
injury claim. The investigator recommended a compensation of £200 which I think is 
reasonable and it fairly reflects the inconvenience Mr C was put to having to find another 
policy. I dont doubt Mr C found the process distressing however I have to be mindful of the 
fact the circumstances which meant he had to make a claim were distressing themselves 
and also that he was acting in the capacity as a sole trader and for business purposes. 
Overall, I think £200 compensation is sufficient. 
Mr C has indicated his solicitors are close to agreeing a settlement with the third party so Ive 
taken this into account when deciding how Think should put things right. Once the figures 
are known, Mr C should provide evidence of these to Think for it to be able to make the 
payments to him.
Putting things right
Think should do the following 
Immediately pay Mr C £200 compensation and,Once provided with evidence of costs by Mr C
Reimburse the cost Mr C pays for the After the Event insurance policy he had to 
take out  as this will be deducted from his settlement amount by the solicitors. 
Pay Mr C an amount equivalent to any deduction that is made from his settlement 
due to the no win, no fee success fee. (as stipulated in the agreement to be up to 
18% of any compensation amount).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint against Think Insurance Services Limited. 
I direct it to put matters right as I have set out in the section above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman