DRN-3862333
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited has dealt with a claim on 
his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S was involved in a collision with another car so claimed on his policy with Advantage. In 
the first notification of loss call Mr S said there might be CCTV footage of the incident, but 
this wasnt taken forward by Advantage until Mr S chased it a month later. 
During the course of the claim Mr Ss colleague used web chat to speak with Advantage 
about the claim. During the conversation, Mr Ss colleague let Advantage know he was deaf, 
but Advantage initially misunderstood this and advised them to phone about the claim. 
Because of this and the issues with the claim Mr S complained. He said the service provided 
hadnt been good enough and his colleague had been discriminated against by being asked 
to call. 
Advantage investigated the complaint and didnt think there had been any failings in the 
calls, however they acknowledged there had been a misunderstanding on the webchat 
which had been rectified quickly and paid £45 compensation to Mr S to apologise for the 
service. Mr S didnt think this was good enough and referred his complaint here. He said his 
colleague had been discriminated against by Advantage and their failings to get the CCTV 
footage meant he would be held at fault for the accident. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and found that Advantage had made an error by not 
requesting the CCTV footage as soon as Mr S had let them know about it. However, as one 
organisation had responded to say they didnt have CCTV footage of the incident and the 
other hadnt replied, they didnt think it had caused Mr S any detriment. They also didnt think 
Advantage had acted unfairly in deciding the outcome of the claim as there wasnt sufficient 
evidence to show Mr S wasnt at fault. Our investigator also acknowledged Mr Ss concerns 
about his colleague being discriminated against but explained were unable to make an 
award to a third party. Because of this they thought Advantages offer of £45 was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr S didnt agree, he said he would lose his excess due to Advantages error and didnt think 
it was fair his colleague had been discriminated against. 
As Mr S didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy, like most policies we see, give Advantage the 
right to take over the defence or settlement of any claim, as they see fit. That means they 
might make a decision Mr S disagrees with and not try to recover their outlay or settle a 
claim from the third party or their insurer. But wed look at whether Advantage made a 
reasonable decision in doing this based on the evidence they had and the circumstances of 
the case.
Mr S said he was proceeding along the right-hand lane when the third party pulled into his 
lane and hit his car. This happened just before the right-hand lane was due to merge with 
the left lane. Advantage have shown that the third-party disputes this and said Mr S was 
trying to overtake them when there wasnt room and was using a walkie talkie with yellow 
flashing lights on his car at the time. Mr S disputes this and says the CCTV and dash cam 
footage would support his position and that there is footage of the incident. 
Advantage have tried to obtain the CCTV and dash cam footage of the incident but have not 
been able to and therefore asked Mr S for the dash cam footage from his car. However, Mr 
S has said Advantage need to request it from his employer as its their dash cam footage. As 
I can see Advantage have made attempts to get footage of the incident, Im satisfied theyve 
acted fairly and reasonably in asking Mr D to obtain evidence he feels would support his 
claim, so they can try to defend it. At the moment Advantage have confirmed liability is still in 
dispute, so until its settled, Im not persuaded Advantage have acted unreasonably in what 
they have done so far. 
Ive also considered whether Advantages error with obtaining the footage of the incident has 
had a negative impact on Mr Ss claim. I can see Advantage did request the footage a month 
after the first notification of loss call, one organisation responded and said they didnt have 
any and the other never responded. So, while I understand Mr Ss frustration, Im not 
persuaded Advantages error has caused him a loss. I say this because one company didnt 
respond and so its also possible, they wouldnt have responded if Advantage had requested 
it sooner. Also, the second company responded and confirmed they didnt have footage of 
the incident, Im therefore not persuaded Advantage would have got a different response if it 
had requested it sooner. 
In regard to Mr S saying his colleague was discriminated against. Its not our place to say 
whether a business has or hasnt discriminated against someone, as that is a matter for the 
courts. The rules our service must abide by dont allow me to make an award to a third party, 
in this case Mr Ss colleague. However, I can see the webchat caused Mr S unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience. Ive reviewed the web chat and can see there was some 
misunderstanding by Advantage about what was being said. In the circumstances Im 
satisfied £45 is fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr S 
suffered. Im therefore not going to tell Advantage to pay any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman