DRN-3004996
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc have threatened to terminate her 
conditional sale agreement.
What happened
On 29 January 2019, Miss L was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale 
agreement with Santander. Miss L paid an advance payment of £1,900 and the agreement 
was for £11,691.85 over 60 months; with monthly repayments of £244.17.
Miss L went into arrears and, in January 2020, she contacted Santander to tell them her 
income had decreased, and that she was struggling to make payments. As part of the 
measures put in place because of the Covid-19 pandemic, in April 2020 Santander offered 
Miss L a three-month payment deferral (also known as a payment holiday). Which she 
accepted. But Miss L said that Santander didnt collect the next payment (due in July 2020), 
and that she experienced difficulties when trying to make this payment manually through 
Santanders online system. So it wasnt paid.
Santander sent Miss L a termination letter in August 2020. And Miss L says that when she 
contacted Santander about this, nobody let her know what her options were. Santander also 
said theyd sent Miss L a default notice, which she said she never received. Miss L 
complained to Santander about the termination notice, but they said they would still be 
terminating the agreement. Miss L wasnt happy with Santanders response, and she 
brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said that Miss L was more than two months in arrears, so the agreement 
shed signed with Santander allowed them to terminate. She said Santander had sent Miss L 
a default notice, and a termination notice, so she thought theyd acted reasonably.
The investigator also said that, when Miss L contacted Santander after the payment holiday 
had ended, their online system referred her to their arrears department. This was so she 
could discuss her current financial circumstances and agree an appropriate payment 
arrangement. Which is what the investigator wouldve expected Santander to have done, 
given the historic arrears. So she didnt think that Santander needed to do anything more.
Miss L didnt agree with the investigator. She provided evidence of the payments shed 
made, to show that Santander had given us incorrect information about the extent of her 
arrears. But the investigator said this still showed Miss L was more than two months in 
arrears, which allowed Santander to terminate the agreement.
Miss L also raised the issue that Santander shouldve been taking the payment on the same 
day each month, which they didnt. Miss L said this added confusion to the payments. She 
also said that Santander were still trying to collect payments even though the agreement 
shouldve been terminated. And she asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
While Santander agreed with the investigator, they said that the default notice hadnt been 
sent due to a system error. So the agreement hadnt yet been terminated. Which is why they 
were still contacting Miss L about the outstanding payments. Theyve said theyll reissue the 
default notice and give Miss L 21 days to contact them and agree a payment arrangement. 
But, if she doesnt do this, theyll then terminate the agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss L was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
Ive seen the agreement Miss L electronically signed on 29 January 2019. This says:
7.1 If you fall into arrears concerning repayment of this agreement by two or more of the 
repayments  we can either:
7.1.1 treat the agreement as repudiated and terminate this agreement [and] take 
back the goods and recover the amounts [owing]; or
7.1.2 transfer ownership of the goods to you and recover the amounts [owing].
9.2 The following additional default charges will apply:
9.2.1 £35.00 when your payment is made late 
So Im satisfied that Santander made it clear under what circumstances they could look to 
terminate the agreement. They also made it clear when late payment fees would be added. 
Ive looked at the payment information provided by both Miss L and Santander, and Im 
satisfied the arrears situation is as follows:
The payment of £244.17 due on 31 July 2019 wasnt paid. Arrears £244.17.
A late payment fee of £35.00 relating to the missing July 2019 payment was applied 
on 9 August 2019. Total arrears £279.17
An additional payment of £279.17 was made by Miss L on 16 September 2019, 
which cleared the outstanding arrears.
The payment of £244.17 due on 30 September 2019 wasnt paid. Arrears £244.17.
A late payment fee of £35.00 relating to the missing September 2019 payment was 
applied on 9 October 2019. Total arrears £279.17.
A late payment fee of £35.00 relating to the delayed November 2019 payment was 
applied on 6 December 2019. Total arrears £314.17.
A late payment fee of £35.00 relating to the delayed December 2019 payment was 
applied on 7 January 2020. Total arrears £349.17.
The payment of £244.17 due on 29 February 2020 wasnt paid. Arrears £593.34
A late payment fee of £35.00 relating to the missing February 2020 payment was 
applied on 9 March 2020. Total arrears £628.34From what Ive seen, Miss L had made no further payments to the agreement after the 
payment deferral period ended. In addition to this, the payments for May, August, October, 
November, and December 2019 were made late, because the direct debit failed. The bank 
statements Miss L has provided show these were due to there being insufficient funds in her 
account on the day the direct debit fell due. And Santander only applied late payment fees 
for the delayed November and December 2019 payments.
Miss L has raised the issue of the date of the direct debit. From what Ive seen, this was due 
to be collected on the last day of every month. Where a direct debit falls due on a non-
working day (a weekend or bank holiday) its collected on the next working day. And where a 
direct debit fails due to insufficient funds, a further collection attempt will be made a few days 
later. The bank statements Miss L has provided shows this was the case. So I cant agree 
that Santander were attempting to collect payments on random dates.
The fees Santander applied were in line with the agreement Miss L signed. And the total 
arrears exceeded 2-months payments when the payment due on 29 February 2020 wasnt 
paid. So, in line with the agreement, Santander were entitled to issue a termination notice at 
any point after this date. So I dont think they did anything wrong by doing this in August 
2020  after the payment deferral period had ended, and after Miss L hadnt made any 
payment arrangement with their collections department.
Santander have said that they didnt issue a default notice, due to an error, and this needs to 
be reissued before theyll consider actually terminating the agreement. While Santander 
have made in error in this respect, it doesnt mean that they made an error in issuing the 
termination notice to Miss L. So I wont be asking them to do anything more.
Im glad to see that Santander have offered Miss L the opportunity to agree a payment 
arrangement, to avoid the agreement being terminated. Its now for Miss L to decide whether 
to accept this offer or not.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint about Santander Consumer 
(UK) Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman