DRN-2790326
The complaint
Ms P says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Ms P bought the policy in 1999 at the same time as taking out a store card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ps case. Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ps 
complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Ms P says the PPI wasnt properly explained when she took it out, and that AXA 
didnt give her a proper choice about buying it. She says it was presented as part of 
the store card opening process, and that AXA didnt make it clear it was optional. Ive 
noted everything Ms P has said. 
But I note that the credit agreement Ms P signed was completed to show that she 
wanted the PPI. I accept its possible PPI wasnt discussed when Ms P took out her 
store card, but its equally likely that it was  although I can understand why Ms P 
may no longer remember this, given the amount of time thats passed since the 
policy was sold. 
Without anything else to support what Ms P has told me, I dont think it would be fair 
or reasonable for me to say that AXA didnt make her aware that the PPI was 
optional. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Ms P so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
her. That means it didnt have to ask about any other means Ms P might have had to 
cover her repayments. 
But even if AXA had recommended the policy to Ms P, it doesnt look like it was 
unsuitable for her, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Even 
though Ms P says she was entitled to employer sick pay and had some savings, the 
policy wouldve paid out in addition to these. It wouldve allowed Ms P to use her sick 
pay and savings to cover other expenses. So I think Ms P wouldve had some use for 
the policy, despite her existing arrangements. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Ms P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Ms P would have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman