DRN-4131756
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC declined his application for a Premier Account.
What happened
Mr S tried to apply for a Barclays Premier Account online but was told that he would need to 
visit a branch to complete the application process. Mr S later visited a branch as requested, 
but after Barclays staff verified his identity, he was told that his application had been 
declined. Mr S wasnt happy about this and felt that Barclays had wasted his time. Mr S was 
also unhappy that Barclays didnt explain why his application had been declined, even 
thought theyd told him they would. So, he raised a complaint.  
Barclays responded to Mr S and reiterated that they were unwilling to provide a Premier 
Account to him. However, Barclays apologised to Mr S for incorrectly telling him that they 
would provide details as to why his application wasnt approved, and they made a payment 
of £25 to Mr S as compensation for any trouble or upset he may have incurred as a result. 
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that it was for Barclays to 
decide who they were willing to provide accounts to. And they felt that Barclays response to 
Mr Ss complaint already represented a fair outcome to what had happened. Mr S remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Barclays have or havent acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
Mr S is unhappy that Barclays declined his application for a Premier Account. However, its a 
commercial decision that Barclays are entitled to make as to whether theyre willing to 
provide an account to an applicant or not. And Im satisfied from the information available to 
me that Barclays have assessed Mr Ss application in line with their processes and in line 
with how they assess all such similar applications  and therefore not unfairly.
Mr S would like to know why his application was declined. But Barclays arent obliged to 
provide this information to him. There are several reasons for this, including that if a bank 
were to make public why certain applications were declined, it may increase the risk that 
future applicants may act to circumnavigate those reasons. 
Barclays have explained exactly why Mr Ss application was declined to this service. And 
having reviewed this information Im satisfied that Barclays didnt act unreasonably or 
unfairly by declining Mr Ss application as they did. I hope it reassures Mr S to know that 
someone impartial has reviewed this information and hasnt found it to be unfair. 
Barclays have apologised to Mr S and paid £25 compensation to him for incorrectly telling 
him that they would be willing to provide a detailed explanation as to why his application had 
been declined. This seems reasonable to me, given the trouble and upset that the provision 
of this incorrect information may have caused Mr S, and in consideration of the general 
framework which this service uses when considering compensation amounts for trouble and 
upset  details of which are on this services website. And I dont feel that Barclays should 
fairly be instructed to take any further action in relation to this point.  
Finally, Mr S is also unhappy that he was asked to visit a Barclays branch but that his 
application was then declined following the identity verification process. And Mr S feels that 
Barclays wasted his time by having him come into branch when they could and should have 
declined his application sooner.
But Barclays have been able to demonstrate that the information Mr S presented to them 
within his online application wasnt accurate. For instance, Mr S stated in his application that 
he was a new customer to Barclays, but when Barclays were able to verify Mr Ss identity in 
branch, they found this to be untrue, and that Mr S had held Barclays accounts previously. 
As such, given that Mr Ss online application contained inaccuracies, I dont feel it was 
unreasonable that Barclays werent able to complete the application process online and 
required Mr S to visit a branch. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr S was wanting, but it follows that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action here. I trust Mr S will 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman