DRN-1571538
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd have unfairly declined his claim. 
What happened
Mr M has an adaptable pension plan with Zurich (previously provided by Allied Dunbar). The 
plan includes a Waiver of Contribution (WOC) benefit; meaning Mr Ms contributions can be 
waived and treated as fully paid if he becomes disabled by way of illness or injury and 
unable to do his job.
Mr M became absent from work in December 2019 because of pain he was experiencing. 
And, in February 2019, submitted a WOC claim. Mr M explained that he had piriformis 
syndrome and a trapped nerve, and wasn't able to sit at a computer for more than 20 to 30 
minutes because of his pain. But Zurich declined it on the grounds that the available medical 
evidence didn't demonstrate Mr M was totally disabled and unable to work in line with the 
terms of his policy.
Unhappy with Zurichs decision, Mr M brought his complaint here and said he'd provided 
sufficient evidence to show he met the policys definition of disablement. And Zurich should 
accept his claim and pay him compensation for the upset that had been caused.
Our investigator looked at what had happened. But she said the available medical evidence 
didn't demonstrate that Mr Ms illnesses had prevented him from being able to perform either 
his job, or any other suited job. Our investigator didn't think that Zurich had declined Mr M's 
claim unfairly because of that. And so didn't recommend that his complaint be upheld.
But Mr M disagreed and, in summary, reiterated his concerns. Mr M also highlighted aspects 
of the medical evidence that he said were either incorrect, or that had been misinterpreted. 
So as no agreement was reached the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I won't be upholding this 
complaint and will explain why. 
Mr M has provided detailed submissions in support of his position, for which I'd like to thank 
him. But without being discourteous, my decision will only focus on those matters I consider 
central to the outcome of this complaint. So I wont address every argument or piece of 
evidence that's been provided.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines require Zurich to handle claims both promptly and 
fairly, and not reject them unreasonably. 
Looking at the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy, the WOC benefit is described as 
follows: If you are disabled for more than 3 months, the regular contributions to which the benefit 
applies, and which are due after the end of that 3 month period will be waived (ie will cease 
to be payable). The regular contributions to which the benefit applies will not again begin to 
be payable until you cease to be disabled. Once you cease to be disabled you will not be 
able to claim the benefit again unless you are again disabled for more than 3 months.
The terms and conditions of his policy also define whats meant by disabled:
Disablement means an injury or illness which causes you to be unable to do your job, and 
any other job for which you are reasonably suited by your education, training or experience.
So, as our investigator explained, it wouldn't be enough for the available medical evidence to 
show that Mr M was unwell for more than three months. It would need to show that he was 
suffering from a disablement which prevented him from doing his job for more than that 
amount of time  or any other job for which he was reasonably suited. 
At the time of his claim, Mr M worked in IT and was home based; a role he's explained 
required him to be at a computer for seven to nine hours a day. Looking at Mr Ms claim 
form, I can see he said that because of the conditions he was suffering from he wasn't able 
to sit at a computer for longer than 20 to 30 minutes at a time. Mr M did say that he was able 
to continue with daily activities though, such as looking after his young children and family, 
doing general house work, and keeping up with his fitness regime  which included a run of 
about 40 minutes six times a week. 
As Ive already set out, I wont refer every piece of medical evidence thats been made 
available. But I can see that Mr M has seen a number of different services and has had a 
number of different examinations and investigations in relation to his conditions and pain. 
Mr M was regularly signed off work by his GP. But aside from the fit notes which reflect that, 
there isnt any corroborative evidence from Mr Ms GP which supports his claim for WOC 
because of disablement. And I note that Mr Ms GP stated they were unable to comment on 
whether Mr M was totally disabled from performing the main duties and responsibilities of his 
occupation, or from undertaking any type of suitable gainful employment (part or full time) 
when completing the GP section of Mr Ms claim form. 
Given the amount of time that Mr M had taken off work, his previous employers had referred 
him for an occupational health (OH) assessment. That took place in February 2019, and the 
corresponding OH report set out the following: 
The essential point of the consultation was to discuss a long-term absence for back pain.
my understanding is that he is 100% home based. That means he has full autonomy on 
his working position. He could exercise, have hot baths, he could do a range of manoeuvres 
throughout the working day, but he has just found this impossible. Therefore, I cannot 
suggest any adjustments or changes that are feasible for him in his workplace because he 
has such autonomy about it.
Clearly with the sort of autonomy he does have at home, as soon as he is reasonably 
comfortable he should be able to find a position where he can use a laptop or desktop to do 
work
Mr M has said the OH report supports his position and confirms that no adjustments could 
be made to assist him to work. But like our investigator, Im not persuaded thats what the 
OH report implies. In my opinion, I think the OH report implies that the advisor wasn't able suggest anything for Mr M, because Mr M has such autonomy over what he does when he is 
at home. 
In relation to adjustments for Mr M, I can see that he informed his previous employer that his 
physiotherapist had said a good quality office chair would be of help and, that there were 
specific chairs designed for piriformis syndrome. And I can further see that in March 2019, 
an NHS musculoskeletal (MSK) service wrote a letter which advised that getting up and 
walking seemed to ease Mr Ms symptoms, and he had found relief after changing the type 
of chair he used.
Mr M has disputed the accuracy of the contents of that letter. But aside from his testimony, 
Ive not seen any evidence to corroborate that the information contained within it is either 
incorrect or inaccurate.
I note that a further MSK letter of May 2019 also said that getting up and walking eased Mr 
Ms pain too. That also said that Mr M didn't get pain when sitting in an armchair, and that he 
might be aggravating his symptoms by running. In July 2019, a consultant neurologist also 
said that theyd suggested that at least for a period of six weeks he discontinues road 
running and decreases his physical activity in the lower limbs to see if this helps his 
symptoms.   
I have not, however, seen any evidence to suggest that Mr M discontinued running or 
decreased his physical activity as advised.
Mr M has provided this service with further medical evidence, including confirmation of 
additional appointments. But I have to consider the information Zurich had at the time of their 
decision. Based on the entirety of the evidence in this case, I accept that Mr M has 
experienced pain because of his illnesses. But theres not enough in this case to persuade 
me that Zurich acted unreasonably in concluding Mr M wasn't disabled by way of illness or 
injury as per the terms and conditions of his policy. And so for those reasons I wont be 
interfering with their decision to decline this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman