DRN-4268005
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs representative, their daughter-in-law and Lasting Power of Attorney (LPA) 
(Ms B), complains on their behalf that they were given unsuitable investment advice by 
Argentis Wealth Management Ltd, formerly known as Compass Wealth Management 
Consultants (Compass), referred to as Argentis or the business.     
In short, Ms B says:
The recommendation to move cash held in ISA to risk-based investments was 
unsuitable.  
Mr and Mrs B didnt understand the advice given. 
Ms B  as their representative and LPA  was only present at the initial meeting, but 
not the further recommendation meetings. 
Its unclear how Mr and Mrs B were expected to make a financial decision when they 
had no family member present who could ensure they understood the advice given to 
them. 
What happened
In October 2021, Mr and Mrs B were given the following financial advice:
Transfer their ISAs held with Aberdeen Standard  valued at £32,342.21 and 
£30,774 respectively  to Elevate, via a cash transfer. The existing holdings would be 
sold and reinvested into the IMS Ethical Portfolio. 
Transfer their cash ISAs held with NatWest  valued at £38,979 and £54,400 
respectively  to Elevate. 
Encash and transfer the joint General Investment Account (GIA) held with Aberdeen 
Standard  valued at £42,594.36  to an ISA investing £20,000 each and a further 
£2,594.36 into a new GIA with Elevate. 
Invest 100% into the IMS Ethical portfolio. 
Argentis also confirmed that Mr and Mrs B signed up to the choice level of service and 
additional Investment Management Service (IMS). According to the client propositions 
document, this meant that they had the option of accessing their financial adviser by phone, 
continuing suitability assessments and annual financial planning reviews. 
I understand that through the IMS, they also had access to quarterly investment portfolio 
recommendations via Argentis portfolio management service and quarterly asset allocation 
rebalancing, amongst other services. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
A copy of the LPA document was requested in April 2021 but wasnt provided. 
Despite this and Ms B not being present  other than in the first meeting  the 
subsequent meetings went ahead because Argentis saw no problems with continuing 
with the meeting. 
The notes suggest that Argentis offered to have Ms B in attendance, but she 
declined. Nevertheless, the business regularly checked Mr and Mrs Bs 
understanding at various points in the meeting to ensure that they understood the 
advice and were happy to proceed.
Even if the LPA document had been supplied it might not have made a difference. Mr 
and Mrs B are also named as LPA (for each other) so at least one attorney wouldve 
been present at the meeting by default. There was no requirement for Ms B to be 
there. 
Ms B had met the adviser and was present during an initial meeting. If there were 
any concerns regarding Mr and Mrs Bs ability to understand, Ms B ought to have 
made this clear to the adviser, but she didnt. 
Despite what Ms B says about the recommendation and ethical investing the 
recommendation met their objective for investing their money. It was recorded that 
they were concerned about the returns they were getting back on their deposit-based 
savings accounts.  
In other words, the recommendation was suitable because it met Mr and Mrs Bs 
objective for growth, and they were made aware of the risks involved. 
Based on the advisers notes, it seems that he discussed Mr Bs volunteering and 
donations to charity. The adviser also confirmed that there was a discussion about 
wanting to invest in companies that add something to the community and 
environment, so the recommendation to invest in the IMS Ethical Portfolio wasnt 
unsuitable  the adviser was only looking to meet their objectives. If Mr and Mrs B 
had any concerns about this, they ought to have reached out to the adviser as 
requested in case they had any issues.
The investments were affordable, taken from existing investments that Mr and Mrs B 
werent reliant upon them for everyday expenses. A reduction in value wouldnt have 
affected their lifestyle. They also had an emergency fund of £35,231 and a total 
monthly disposable income of approximately £1,173.90, so were in a reasonable 
position to invest. 
The adviser was taking a medium to long term view of their investment with a view to 
making their money work harder.  
The previous investments were no longer suitable to meet Mr and Mrs Bs objectives. 
In other words, they were unlikely to achieve the long-term growth they were seeking. 
The adviser found Mr and Mrs B to be balanced risk investors. Their answers to the 
questionnaire would suggest that their attitude to risk was as such. 
The IMS Ethical Portfolio consisted of investing in equities, cash, fixed securities, and 
property. The aim of this was to balance security with returns. The mix was likely to 
have mitigated the risks of investing in equities and provided a layer of security. 
In any case, they were willing to take a risk  greater than they had in the past  to 
achieve better returns in the long(er) run, for their son. 
Based on everything shes seen she doesnt consider the recommendation to be 
unsuitable. 
Despite Ms Bs concerns about the move to risk-based investments, shes satisfied 
that Mr and Mrs B wanted their monies to be working harder, with the aim of 
achieving greater capital growth. Given the conversations about the types of 
companies they wanted to invest in, it wasnt unreasonable for the adviser to 
recommend a more ethically appropriate portfolio. 
The adviser went through the reports and all of the recommendations as far as they 
could. Given that he was told that Mr and Mrs B understood what was going on, it 
wasnt unreasonable to proceed.Ms B disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, she said:
Concerns were raised with their new adviser in 2022 who messaged her to query 
whether or not the LPA was registered. She believes the original adviser made a 
clear recommendation that she needed to be present, but the advice continued 
without her. 
Mr and Mrs B were elderly and vulnerable and didnt understand what was going on. 
Mrs B relied on Mr B, and Mr B trusted the adviser. Their son had no clear 
understanding of finances and was vulnerable. According to their son, he didnt have 
a clue what was going on with his finances.  Its easy to direct vulnerable people into 
making decisions they dont fully understand. 
It was made clear that she was needed to be at the meeting  it was clear from their 
faces from the first meeting that Mr and Mrs B didnt understand what was going on  
she didnt feel the need to make this clear to the adviser.  
It was her fear that Mr and Mrs B moved their money based on advice they didnt 
understand, and this was confirmed. Whilst shes sure that they wouldve been 
concerned about their existing investments, its unlikely they wouldve moved into a 
riskier investment. 
The investigators comments that Mr and Mrs B were willing to take a risk, greater 
than they had in the past to achieve longer term gains is perplexing. Theyre elderly 
vulnerable people  whom she has known over 30 years  who are not risk takers 
and have just been led to believe theyre doing the right thing.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Ms B says, Im unable to safely 
say that Argentis behaved unreasonably such that this complaint should be upheld.
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Ms Bs strength of feeling (on behalf of Mr and Mrs B), about this matter. 
She has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope they wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. In 
other words, I dont have to comment upon every single point made. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Ms B and Argentis, and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In the circumstances, I dont need 
any further evidence to make my decision. 
I understand that Argentis was formerly known as Compass  when Mr and Mrs B signed 
the relevant documentation  before it was rebranded in November 2022 and all agreements 
were transferred to Argentis. This will explain why Mr and Mrs Bs original correspondence 
relates to Compass.   I dont uphold this complaint, in brief, for the following reasons:
Argentis quite rightly asked for the LPA which wasnt produced, it continued with the 
recommendation in the belief that Mr and Mrs B understood what was being said 
because it checked regularly. In the circumstances, and on balance, I dont think 
Argentis did anything wrong. 
Based on what the adviser says, I understand that Mr and Mrs B were both 
comfortable to proceed with the advice  which took place over two/three phone calls 
 without there being a family member present. 
Just because Mr and Mrs B were in their 80s didnt mean that they were 
automatically incapable of following financial advice or of making up their minds. I 
note that they were in good health and based on the Financial Conduct Authority 
guidance old age of itself isnt a vulnerability. Although theres a greater risk older 
people might be vulnerable, on balance, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs B were in 
this instance.  
Despite what Ms B says, theres no specific evidence to suggest that they were 
vulnerable as such, or that they were pressurised into doing something that they 
didnt want to do. I appreciate what Ms B say about their son (regarding his 
disability/vulnerability), but he wasnt the person receiving the financial advice, so no 
advice was given to him. 
On balance, Im persuaded that even if the LPA had been provided it was unlikely to 
have made a difference because in addition to naming Ms B and Mr and Mrs Bs son 
as LPAs, both Mr and Mrs B were also named as LPAs. So, its likely that there 
wouldve been a person present  most likely Mr and/or Mrs B  with LPA 
responsibilities even if Ms B wasnt. But this is probably immaterial given that I dont 
think there was a requirement to have an attorney present. And, on balance, I think 
its more likely than not they were capable of understanding the advice. In other 
word, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im not persuaded that they were 
incapable of understanding the evidence. 
The above notwithstanding, Im mindful that there wasnt a specific requirement for 
Ms B to be there in any case, and given the wording of the LPA, at least one attorney 
wouldve been present. Furthermore, the one attorney wouldve been able to decide 
jointly or severally as per the conditions of the LPA. In other words, it wasnt 
necessary to have more than one attorney present, and certainly not all of them at 
once in order for decisions to be made. 
I agree with the investigator that if there were concerns Ms B shouldve made this 
clear to the adviser, as well as making clear that any further meetings shouldnt take 
place without her, but this wasnt the case suggesting that it wasnt an issue. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr B says, I cant safely 
say that the recommendation was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs B. In short, for the 
following reasons:
oIt was recorded that Mr and Mrs B were concerned about the returns they 
were getting on their deposit based savings and wanted better returns. In 
respect of the old investments, I note the adviser said:
Whilst the clients were invested ethically, they were also invested in 
bond funds which invest solely in fixed interest investments, which 
was not in line with their balanced attitude to risk and did not achieve 
the long term growth the clients were seeking to be able to provided 
and to support (name anonymised) (son) after both clients pass.
oOn balance, Im persuaded that the recommendation met Mr and Mrs Bs 
objective for capital growth over the medium to long term. Im aware that the 
capital was for their sons benefit therefore they mightve been in a better 
position to take a risk-based approach with the funds. oI note that no guarantees were given with regards to performance, and Mr 
and Mrs B were more likely than not made aware of the risks involved. I note 
they were told the investments were likely to involve some short-term volatility 
and any overall returns werent guaranteed  and they confirmed that they 
were comfortable investing in this way.
oI appreciate Ms B is unhappy with the performance of the investments, but 
thats not something I can blame the business for. Argentis cant predict or 
control how the investment will perform, which is subject to the financial 
markets. So, despite what Ms B says about the returns not being enough to 
cover the fees, this isnt something that I can blame Argentis for. There was 
no suggestion that the fees wouldnt be covered. 
oOn the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Ms B says, I think 
the business did what it was asked to do in terms of ethical investing. I note 
there were discussions about Mr B wanting to invest in companies that add 
something to the community and environment. So, in the circumstances, and 
on balance, I cant say that the advice to invest in the IMS Ethical Portfolio 
was unsuitable or that Mr and Mrs B were made to do something they didnt 
want to.  
oOn balance, Im satisfied that the recommendation was also affordable, given 
that the funds were uitiized from other investments, such as other companies 
and cash ISAs. So, it wasnt money theyd taken out of their savings that they 
mightve relied upon or was earmarked for some other purpose. 
oI note Mr and Mrs B also confirmed that they werent reliant on the money for 
current household expenses, and a fall in the value of the investments 
wouldnt have a significant effect on their lifestyle. In other words, they werent 
reliant on this money to supplement their daily finances, and it was for their 
son for whom they were trying to increase the returns and therefore were 
more likely than not content to take a greater risk with their money. Im 
mindful that they enjoyed a reasonable monthly disposable income and had 
access to a reasonable amount of cash for emergencies or unforeseeable 
circumstances. 
oThe advice to move investments in the first instance wasnt unsuitable as its 
likely that the previous investments were no longer meeting their objectives, 
therefore it wasnt an unreasonable course of action  especially as Mr and 
Mrs B wanted to invest for greater capital growth for their son. If theyd been 
advised to come out of their previous investments and invest in something 
similar  with the same risk rating  Id be concerned about the suitability of 
the new advice. But this is not the case here. 
oIn the circumstances, and on balance, I dont think adopting a balanced risk 
attitude to risk was unsuitable given their objective for capital growth. Based 
on the mixed asset class, I cant say that the greater risks associated with 
investing in equities werent mitigated to some extent. 
oIn any case, and on balance, Im persuaded that Mr and Mrs B were willing to 
take a risk  greater than they had in the past  to achieve better returns in 
the long(er) run, for their son. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B (and Ms B on their behalf) will be thoroughly unhappy that 
Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt 
what they want to hear. Whilst I appreciate their frustration, I cant safely say that Argentis 
provided unsuitable advice. 
In other words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, I cant give him/them 
what he/they want. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman