DRN-3023453
The complaint
Ms C says TFS Loans Limited acted irresponsibly when it accepted her as a guarantor on a 
loan taken out by a third party.  
What happened
In December 2017 TFS gave a 60-month instalment loan for £5,500 to the borrower. The 
monthly repayments were £215 and the total repayable was £12,900. 
Ms C signed a Guarantee and Indemnity agreement in respect of the loan. That meant that
if the borrower failed to make the repayments TFS could seek repayment from Ms C.
This decision does not consider whether it was reasonable for TFS to give the loan to the 
borrower. It assesses whether it was reasonable for TFS to accept Ms C as a guarantor for 
the loan.
Ms C says she was bullied and pushed into being the guarantor. She says there was no way 
she could afford the payments and TFSs checks were not completed properly.
Our investigator concluded that Ms Cs complaint should be upheld. She said TFS had not 
carried out proportionate checks and had it done so it ought to have realised it was unlikely 
Ms C would be able to sustainably repay the loan if she needed to. 
TFS disagreed, questioning the investigators calculations of Ms Cs monthly income and the 
number of loans Ms C was already guarantor for.
As an agreement wasnt reached the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending, as well as the key 
rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice, is set out on our 
website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Cs complaint.
I have considered the following questions in my assessment:
Did TFS obtain Ms Cs properly informed consent to become guarantor for the loan?
Did TFS carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Ms C was in a position to sustainably repay the loan, in the event that the borrower 
did not? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the 
time?
Ultimately, did TFS make a fair lending decision (given Ms C would be equally liable 
for this loan with the borrower)?
Did TFS obtain Ms Cs properly informed consent to become guarantor for the loan?
Ive listened to the call recording from 21 December 2017 of a conversation between TFS 
and Ms C that was the part of the loan application process. Ms C confirmed that she had 
opened and signed the loan documents and that she had read all the terms of the loan and 
all relevant documentation. TFS explained the role and responsibilities of being a guarantor 
and made clear that she was equally responsible for the debt. Ms C confirmed to the adviser 
she understood this and had no questions. 
Ive also seen the Guarantee and Indemnity agreement signed by Ms C. This set out her 
rights and obligations. So overall I think Ms C consented to becoming the loan guarantor and 
was told about the consequences of being a guarantor.
I have thought carefully about what Ms C has said about being bullied and pushed into being 
a guarantor. She hasnt given us any more detail about this. But I accept this is possible. 
However, I have to reach my decision based on the available evidence - and from this, what 
it is reasonable to conclude the lender ought to have known at the time. 
Having listened to this pre-completion call between Ms C and TFS, I cannot fairly say that 
the lender should have concluded Ms C wasnt a willing guarantor. The advisor asked if she 
had been placed under any pressure to act as a guarantor on the loan and Ms C replied, oh 
absolutely not, no, I wasnt, no. Overall, Ive found no evidence to allow me to fairly 
conclude that TFS should have been aware Ms C was under pressure to act as guarantor.
Did TFS carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms C was in a 
position to sustainably repay the loan, in the event that the borrower did not? If not what 
would better checks have shown? Did TFS make a fair lending decision?
I can see TFS asked for some information from Ms C before accepting her as the guarantor. 
It asked for her income and verified this with recent payslips and written confirmation of her 
pension. It checked her credit file to understand her existing credit commitments and credit 
history. From these checks combined TFS concluded Ms C had sufficient income to 
sustainably repay the loan, if needed. 
I am not satisfied these checks were proportionate given the value and term of the loan, and 
the percentage of Ms Cs monthly income that would be needed to cover the loan 
repayments if she had to repay the debt. I think it needed to understand and verify her living 
costs to fully understand her disposable income. However, I wont comment further on this 
as even from the checks it completed I dont think TFS made a fair lending decision. Ill 
explain why.
I note from the call recording that on 21 December 2017 Ms C told the lender she was the 
guarantor for a loan for her son and that the monthly repayment for that loan was £34. We 
have asked for the call recording of the application call on 18 December 2017 but TFS hasnt 
provided this. But I can see from its final response letter that on this call Ms C said that she 
may also be a guarantor for another family member. TFS has not evidenced that it looked 
into this further  something it ought to have done before deciding to lend. 
Ms C has provided details of two loans that she says she was already the guarantor for at 
this time, in addition to her sons. The evidence she has provided only confirms the start date 
of one of the loans, but this does not change my finding as the monthly repayment on this 
loan was £375.49. TFS has said Ms Cs monthly income was £967.14, not £874.90 as our 
investigator calculated. But I need not comment further on this. This is because it would not 
change my conclusion that accepting Ms C as the guarantor for this loan over-committed her 
in the event that she needed to make repayments on the loans she was acting as guarantor for. It would have been such a significant portion of her income that TFS ought to have 
realised its loan would most likely not have been sustainably affordable for Ms C.
It follows I think TFS was wrong to accept Ms C as the guarantor for this loan.
Putting things right
If I go on to uphold this complaint in part TFS  in so far as is reasonably practicable 
must put Ms C back in the position she would be in now if its wrong hadnt taken place. This
means TFS putting Ms C in the position shed now be in if she hadnt unfairly and
unreasonably been accepted as a guarantor on this loan.
TFS should:
a) Release Ms C from any obligations under the guarantee and indemnity agreement and
then terminating it.
b) Refund any payments made by Ms C as guarantor, if she has many any. TFS
must add 8%* simple interest a year to each of those sums, from the date Ms C paid them to
the date the refund is paid to her.
c) Remove any information about this loan from Ms Cs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to deduct tax from this interest. TFS should give Ms C a 
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one. 
 
My final decision
I am upholding Ms Cs complaint in part. TFS Loans Limited must put things right as set out 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman