DRN-3466188
The complaint
Mr A complains that Wakam hasnt dealt with his claim on his commercial vehicle insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr A was driving along and noticed flood water on the road. He said he stopped before the 
flood water and two lorries drove the other way which caused flood water to damage his car. 
Because of this he claimed on his policy with Wakam. 
Wakam reviewed the claim and declined it. They said Mr As explanation of how the incident 
occurred isnt consistent with the damage and that Mr A hasnt co-operated with them when 
reviewing the claim. In particular, he hasnt provided the details of the recovery company he 
used, the details of the friend who arranged recovery for him or evidence of what he paid for 
recovery. Because of this Wakam relied on the fraud term in the policy to decline the claim 
and cancel the policy. 
Mr A didnt think this was fair and complained, he said his friend didnt want to be involved in 
the claim so hadnt provided their details and as his friend had arranged the recovery for him 
he couldnt provide the details of the recovery business. He also said hed paid cash for the 
recovery so couldnt provide evidence of paying for recovery.  
Wakam reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr A remained unhappy, he referred 
the complaint here. He raised several points about Wakam not understanding his claim and 
disagreed that the damage wasnt consistent with his explanation. He also said Wakam had 
incorrectly recorded the outcome of his claim which affected him getting insurance 
elsewhere and didnt agree it was fair for Wakam to cancel his policy. 
Our investigator looked into Mr As complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She found 
that Wakam had relied on an engineers opinion of what happened, and that Mr A hadnt 
provided information Wakam had asked for to verify his claim. Because of this she didnt 
think Wakam had done anything wrong by declining his claim and cancelling his policy. 
Mr A didnt agree and provided a new engineers report which supported his version of 
events. Our investigator said this was new evidence Wakam hadnt seen, so she didnt think 
it changed her position on whether Wakam had done anything wrong when it initially 
declined the claim. 
As Mr A didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has made a number of detailed points. Were an informal dispute resolution service set 
up as a free alternative to the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue in turn. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr A. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, 
its remit and my role in it.
Mr A has provided a new engineers report dated 12 July 2021 and an e-mail from the 
recovery company which recovered his car. The e-mail from the recovery company is dated 
10 July 2021. 
The incident Mr A is claiming for occurred in February 2020 and Wakam declined the claim 
based on an engineers reported dated 17 April 2020. Mr A then referred his complaint here 
in September 2020. While Ive reviewed the new engineers report and the e-mail from the 
recovery business Mr A has now provided. Im not going to consider them in this decision. I 
say this because in this decision Im only looking at whether Wakam acted fairly and 
reasonable when it initially declined his claim and cancelled his policy. And considering this 
evidence wasnt provided until over a year later it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to consider 
it in this decision without Wakam having the opportunity to consider it first. Once Wakam has 
reviewed it, if Mr A is unhappy with Wakams response to the new evidence then he would 
need to raise that as a separate complaint. 
The terms and conditions of Mr As policy say:
You and your legal representative shall give all requested information, 
co-operation and assistance as we may require.
They go onto say: 
If you or anyone acting on your behalf makes a fraudulent, false or 
exaggerated claim under this policy, we will be entitled to refuse to settle 
the whole of the claim and make any recoveries that we have already 
settled. We may also notify you that we will be treating this policy as 
having been terminated with effect from the date of the fraudulent act.
If we terminate this policy under this condition you will have no cover 
under this policy from the date of the fraudulent act and will not be 
entitled to any refund of premium irrespective of whether we are required 
to meet any claim at all. We may also recover any settlement made in 
regard to any other claim on your policy. This clause also applies to false 
statements made when taking out the policy or bringing a claim and if 
you provide false documents in support of a claim.
The engineer who reviewed Mr As car in April 2020 said:
I have a number of concerns with the extent of the flooding that has 
occurred to the insureds Mercedes. I say this because the 
description that has been provided suggests his vehicle was 
stationary at the edge of standing water on the [road name] which is 
said to have been flooded, when a lorry is said to have driven 
through the water causing a wave that went onto/over the vehicle. In 
my opinion, if this description was correct, then I consider it is very 
unlikely that water would have entered the luggage/boot  
compartment. I say this because the boot is sealed and is capable of 
driving/standing in torrential downpours/rain. Further, the fact that 
water has entered the engine causing irreparable damage, further supports the Mercedes has suffered more than just being splashed 
by a wave of water from another vehicle.
Because of the engineers report Wakam declined Mr As claim on the basis he hadnt 
given an accurate description of the incident and cancelled his policy. While I dont think 
this is enough to say Mr A has been fraudulent, Im not going to interfere with Wakams 
decision to turn down his claim and cancel his policy as the clause also allows Wakam to 
turn down his claim if inaccurate information is provided. I say this because the 
engineers opinion Wakam relied upon at the time doesnt support Mr As version of 
events. Furthermore, when Wakam has tried to obtain further information about the claim 
Mr A hasnt provided it. I can also see that when Wakam cancelled Mr As policy it 
refunded the unused premium, so while it has relied on the fraud term. Wakam has done 
more than it needs to by refunding the unused premium. 
Ive considered Mr As reasons for not providing his friends details, or the details of the 
recovery business he used. But Im not persuaded they mean Wakam acted unfairly 
when declining Mr As claim initially. This is because Wakam tried to verify the claim and 
obtain further information but hadnt received it. 
Ive also considered Mr As point about how the claim is recorded. While I understand Mr 
A thinks how its recorded is unfair, Im not persuaded it had been recorded unfairly at 
the time, given Wakams reasons for declining the claim. Im also aware Wakam is 
reviewing the claim following the new information. And once that has been done it might 
alter how the claim is recorded, or Mr As opinion on whether its incorrect. So, Im not 
going to tell Wakam to amend how its been recorded so far. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman