DRN-3320356
The complaint
Mrs L complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA). She isnt happy 
about the way it dealt with a claim under her home insurance policy. 
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as RSA are responsible for it, Ive 
just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
Mrs L made a claim under her home insurance policy after subsidence problems at her 
property. Mrs L had a problem at the front of her property and one at the rear. RSA looked 
into things for her and decided the problems werent related and that there was two separate 
incidents. It said the one to the front of the property was subsidence and would be dealt with 
under the policy while the second claim, to the rear, was declined. RSA said this was 
because this second claim was caused by settlement of the ground under an extension that 
had been built on poor foundations which wasnt covered under the policy. 
As Mrs L wasnt happy about this, believing that both the rear and front problems were 
caused by the same incidence of subsidence, she complained to this service. Mrs L also 
raised another complaint about RSA and the general delays she faced in dealing with the 
first claim. This matter has been looked at separately under another complaint so wont be 
commented upon in this decision. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs L and eventually upheld her complaint. She was 
of the view that RSA should reconsider the second claim in relation to the rear of the 
property. This was because RSA had eventually decided that the cause of the first claim 
wasnt as it first thought (clay shrinkage caused by vegetation) and this opened up the 
possibility that both issues had in fact been caused by the same problem. So she asked 
RSA to continue its investigation into the damage to the rear of the property and if it found 
there was an insurable event then it should arrange for any remedial action to be 
undertaken. And she thought RSA should pay Mrs L an additional £200 compensation (on 
top of the £100 it had already paid for its poor communication in relation to this claim) for 
additional stress and upset caused to Mrs L. 
As RSA didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to RSA, but Ill explain why.
As both sides are fully aware of the issues faced I dont propose to go over the details or 
rehearse the arguments again here. I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken 
into account all of the information provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive 
not reflected something thats been said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its 
because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and 
reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think its necessary to get an answer, or 
provide my own answer, to every question raised unless its relevant to the crux of the 
complaint.
RSA have argued that the damage to the rear of the property and the damage to the front of 
the property were caused by two different and separate events and causes. It felt the 
damage to the front of the property was subsidence which had been caused by vegetation. 
While it felt the damage to the rear of the property had been caused by settlement of the 
ground under an extension that had been built on poor foundations.
Initially our investigator thought this position was reasonable and that the damage to the rear 
of the property had been caused by an uninsured event and wasnt covered under the policy. 
However, this was before she was provided with RSAs full file and more detail about the 
subsidence claim to the front of the property which was ongoing. 
The monitoring reports show that there continued to be movement after the vegetation was 
removed from the front of the property. And so, this creates the possibility that the original 
cause of the problems to the front elevation wasnt the vegetation. And RSAs engineer was 
considering underpinning the front steps as The property is built on poor made ground and 
after the policyholder had removed their vegetation we were under the opinion this wouldn't 
have the desired effect. This is why we are currently taking the route of a stabilisation 
scheme.
As such, there has been further movement since the vegetation has been removed and RSA 
are now considering underpinning the front of the property. This would suggest the 
vegetation was not the cause of the subsidence at the front of the property. Given this I dont 
think there is sufficient evidence to say the damage to the front of the property and the rear 
of the property has been caused by two separate events. Mrs L has provided some 
independent expert evidence that suggests the claim to the rear was subsidence and 
provided photos that show there has been movement in the garden which may have affected 
the neighbouring property. And all this suggests that the movement to the rear of the 
property is a site issue and not a separate event. 
Whilst I understand why RSA initially reached its initial conclusion about the damage to the 
rear of the property and decided that wasnt an insurable event. I think it shouldve reviewed 
its position when further evidence came available. By not doing so, RSA has caused Mrs L 
additional stress and upset over a prolonged period of time so I agree that it should pay Mrs 
L additional compensation. 
Given all of this, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case, is for RSA to continue its investigation to the rear of the property, alongside the 
front elevation. And if it is found to be an insurable event it should arrange for any remedial 
action to be undertaken. 
RSA should look to do this as a matter of urgency in order to avoid any further delay to 
settling both claims. And it should pay Mrs L an additional £200 compensation for the stress 
and inconvenience caused by not re-evaluating its position at an earlier stage. My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited to reconsider Mrs Ls claim in relation to the rear of her property 
and pay her £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman