DRN-3822796
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) declined their claim for 
storm damage under their buildings insurance. 
The policy was in joint names but, for ease of reading, Ill refer mainly to Mr L throughout my 
decision.
What happened
Several roof tiles came off Mr Ls roof during a storm. He made a claim under his buildings 
insurance. Ageas agreed thered been storm conditions and visited Mr Ls home to assess 
the damage. The surveyor took photos from ground level and concluded that the damage 
was due to wear and tear.
Ageas declined the claim, relying on the following policy wording:
What is not insured - Damage caused by wear, tear or deterioration
Mr L was unhappy with Ageass decision, so he complained. Ageas maintained its decision, 
so Mr L asked for a contribution towards the cost of repair, rather than the full amount. 
Ageas remained of the view that the damage wasn't caused by the storm and rejected his 
request.
Mr L brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator thought Ageass evidence was 
more persuasive than that provided by Mr L, and she didnt think Ageas had done anything 
wrong.
Mr L didnt agree. He pointed out his roof was just 15 years old and in good condition, so it 
was unlikely to have suffered from significant wear and tear. Further, he said hed twice had 
work done to his roof, and the most recent roofer said the roof was in good condition when 
he completed repairs three years earlier. Mr L said his neighbours suffered similar damage 
despite having newer houses and consideration hadnt been given to his homes exposed 
location.
Mr L asked for a further review, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr and Mrs L will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold their complaint. 
Ill explain why.
Both parties are aware of the three questions Id consider when looking at a storm damage 
complaint:
Was there a storm?
Was the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
Was the damage caused wholly or mainly by a storm?
Theres no dispute about the first two questions. Winds exceeding 55 mph were recorded by 
weather stations in the area, which meets the level at which Ageas will consider a storm 
claim.
In terms of the damage, severe storms can cause some structural damage, so for the 
purposes of this decision, Ill accept that the storm couldve caused the damage.
Looking at the final question  was the damage caused wholly or mainly by the storm?  this 
is where the dispute arose. 
Ageas said the main cause of the tiles dislodging was wear and tear, evidenced by the 
condition of the mortar shown in the surveyors photos. The surveyor pointed to previously 
filled gaps, and said the mortar had deteriorated due to the freeze-thaw effect. 
Mr L disagreed for the following reasons:
the house was only 15 years old, and it wasnt reasonable to expect the roof to be in 
a poor state.
Other houses experienced similar damage.
The specific exposed location of his home wasnt factored into the decision.
His roofer confirmed his roof was in good condition prior to the storm.
Mr Ls neighbour sent a letter of support stating the tiles dislodged in the wind, 
although none dislodged on their own home.
Ive thought carefully about the evidence presented but I havent seen anything to persuade 
me that Ageas reached an unfair decision to decline Mr Ls claim.
Thats not to say I doubt Mr Ls evidence, and I can understand why he thinks it mustve 
been the storm, rather than wear and tear, that damaged his roof. But the expert opinion of 
Ageass surveyor, along with the photos of previous repairs and the reasons given for the 
mortar damage, carries more weight when balanced against the fact that Mr Ls roof had 
already been repaired twice.
While Mr L said the location of his home wasn't factored into Ageass decision, its possible 
the exposed location contributed to the premature wear and tear. Ageass surveyor 
explained that the freeze/thaw effect wouldve damaged the mortar and thats 
understandable if the roof wasn't protected from the weather by other buildings. So, whether or not Ageas considered his homes location, it's unlikely that the outcome wouldve been 
any different.
Overall, Im satisfied that the evidence lends greater weight to Ageass view that the main 
cause of the damage was wear and tear. Theres no dispute that the tiles dislodged during 
the storm, as Mr Ls neighbour confirmed. But the evidence suggests that, but for the 
existing wear and tear, the storm wouldnt have dislodged the roof tiles.
Therefore, Im satisfied that Ageas declined the claim fairly, for the reasons it gave, and in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy. I see no reason to ask Ageas to do anything 
more in respect of this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman