DRN-4332628
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the service he received from The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) 
surrounding defaults reported by them to his credit file.
What happened
To briefly summarise: In 2019, Mr T referred a complaint to this service about defaults that 
had been reported by RBS to his credit file. His complaint was upheld by this service and 
RBS were instructed to remove the defaults from his credit file and to allow Mr T the 
opportunity to affordably repay the relevant accounts.
Following this services decision in 2019, Mr T was expecting to be contacted by RBS to 
arrange repayment of his accounts but didnt receive any contact from them. Mr T also 
noticed that the defaults RBS had been instructed to remove were still present on his credit 
file. So, he raised a new complaint.
RBS explained to Mr T that they had removed the defaults from his credit file in 2019 and 
sent letters to him inviting him to contact them and discuss repayment of the accounts. And 
RBS further explained that because no contact had been received from Mr T, and because 
Mr T hadnt subsequently made sufficient payments towards his accounts, they had been 
defaulted for non-payment again, for a second time, in 2020, but that RBS had backdated 
the date of default to the original default date in 2018 for the benefit of Mr T.
However, RBS acknowledged that theyd held an incorrect address for Mr T and so had sent 
all correspondence following the original decision made by this service to a wrong address. 
Because of this, RBS agreed to write off the balance of Mr Ts account  cumulatively 
totalling approximately £4,450  and remove all credit file reporting relating to those 
accounts from his credit file. Additionally, RBS also sent Mr T a cheque for £250 as 
compensation for any upset and trouble he had incurred. Mr T wasnt satisfied with RBSs 
response to his complaint and felt a much larger award of compensation was merited for the 
distress this matter had caused him. So, he referred his complaint to this service 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that the response to Mr Ts 
complaint issued by RBS already represented a fair resolution to what had happened. Mr T 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I feel that the corrective action implemented by RBS as per their response 
to Mr Ts complaint dated 17 January 2023, including the payment of £250 compensation 
that RBS issued to Mr T by cheque at that time, already represents a fair outcome here, and 
so I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing RBS to do anything more.
One reason I take this position is because, after the previous decision issued by the service 
in 2019, which resulted in RBS removing the defaults from Mr Ts credit file, Mr T remained 
liable to repay the balances outstanding on the two accounts. This cumulative balance 
totalled over £4,000. And Mr T, having received the previous decision issued by this service, 
was aware that he was required to repay this money. However, ultimately, he didnt.
In his correspondence with this service Mr T has stated that because RBS were sending 
letters to the wrong address, he wasnt given the chance to begin repaying his accounts 
again. But Mr T was aware of his responsibility to repay the accounts, and so should 
reasonably have contacted RBS himself to arrange repayment, if no letters had been 
received by him at his correct address. And Im satisfied that Mr Ts responsibility to repay 
the accounts wasnt in any way lessened by RBS sending letters to an incorrect address.
As such, RBSs decision to write off the balances of his accounts seems generous to me and 
goes beyond what I would potentially have instructed RBS to do had this complaint been 
received by this service with RBS not having taken such action. Indeed, I can confirm that 
any instructions I may have potentially issued in such a scenario would have been founded 
on the basis that it would have been fair and reasonable for Mr T to repay the money that 
hed received and had the benefit of, regardless of any administrative errors that RBS may 
have made concerning Mr Ts address.
Accordingly, while its clear that RBS didnt act as they should have here by not contacting 
Mr T at the correct address, I feel that Mr T also hasnt acted as he should by not contacting 
RBS to arrange repayment of his accounts, following his not receiving the contact from RBS 
that he was expecting. And I reiterate that I dont consider Mr Ts responsibility to repay his 
accounts was lessened in anyway by RBS not sending letters to his correct address.
Mr T has also stated that RBS didnt remove the defaults from his credit file following the 
original decision as they should have. But RBS have demonstrated that they did remove the 
defaults as instructed. But, because Mr T didnt then make payments towards the accounts 
in line with his responsibilities as the account holder, the accounts fell into arrears and were 
defaulted again, for a second time  with the date of default being backdated by RBS to the 
original date of default in 2018 for Mr Ts benefit, so that the reporting of the defaults would 
drop off his credit file sooner than would be the case had they been dated in 2020. 
Had Mr T contacted RBS to arrange repayment of his accounts, as I feel he reasonably 
should have and as per his responsibilities as the account holder, then his accounts wouldnt 
have fallen into arrears again and wouldnt have defaulted for a second time. And because 
of this, I feel Mr T not contacting RBS was as much a contributing factor to the upset and 
trouble that hes experienced here as was RBS sending letters to an incorrect address.
Finally, Mr T has explained that RBSs actions have caused him considerable stress and 
upset and have affected his health, such that further compensation beyond the £250 that 
RBS have paid should be awarded. But, given that I feel that Mr T is jointly responsibility for 
what happened following the issuance of the prior decision by this service  because he 
failed to meet his responsibilities to repay his accounts, as explained above  I dont agree. 
And Im satisfied that the £250 that RBS have paid to Mr T is a fair compensation amount, 
especially in consideration of the generosity of RBSs other actions here.
All of which means that Im satisfied that RBS have already resolved this complaint fairly, as 
per their complaint response letter dated 17 January 2023. And it follows from this that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing RBS to take any further action. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr T was wanting, but I trust hell understand, given what 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.  My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman