DRN-3281666
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy Auto Logistics Solutions Limited (ALS) are asking him to pay for hire car 
charges several years after he said he was told he didnt have to pay anything.
What happened
In June 2017, Mr E said his car was hit from behind by another car. In September 2017 he 
asked ALS a claims management company (CMC) to provide their accident management 
services.
Mr E said his claim was for repairs to his car, hire car charges and personal injury. And he 
said ALS allocated solicitors to handle his claim in court to recover the costs from the third 
party. Mr E said just before the court hearing he was told by his solicitors not to pursue his 
claim. Mr E said he was told by them there was nothing to pay as his agreement was on a 
no win no fee basis. 
Mr E said ALS had arranged the use of a hire car after his accident. But hed only had it for 
about two days as hed returned it to the garage as it was faulty. But ALS have now 
allocated other solicitors to recover from him the hire car costs. He complained to ALS.
ALS said Mr E had signed their hire car agreement, the terms of which were clear that hed 
be responsible for any costs until liability was accepted by the third party. They said they 
understood the solicitors discontinued with the court hearing as there was a discrepancy 
about the number of previous accidents that had been recorded for Mr E. They said the 
solicitors should have told him that by not pursuing the court case he would be liable for the 
hire car costs. 
ALS said theyd referred Mr E back to his insurer to recover the repair costs. And had 
continued to try to contact him for the recovery of the hire car costs. But Mr E hadnt 
engaged with them, so theyd passed the costs for debt collection. They said when the 
solicitors asked to recover the debt hadnt taken any action, theyd passed the debt over to 
different solicitors to pursue.
Mr E wasnt happy with ALS response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said ALS had shown Mr E had use of the hire car, that there was no 
evidence to show Mr E had returned the hire car after two days. And that ALS had acted 
fairly and reasonably in seeking the recovery of the hire car costs.
Mr E didnt agree he reiterated hed been told he wouldnt have to pay the hire car costs. 
And that ALS had told him theyd recover them from the third party. He asked for an 
ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Mr E isnt happy that his solicitors didnt pursue the court hearing about his accident case, 
and he says they didnt tell him that he would be liable for the hire costs on agreeing to drop 
the case. As these matters relate to the activities of the solicitors, its not something I can 
comment on. And I understand hes complained to the Legal Ombudsman about these 
matters.
I can understand Mr Es frustration as with the passage of time he thought the matter had 
been resolved about the hire car charges. And Ive no doubt it would have been a stressful 
situation for him having been involved in an accident that he said wasnt his fault, to then be 
asked to pay for costs that had been incurred as a result. 
First, I think it would be useful for me to explain how Ive looked at the complaint and come 
to my decision. Up until 31 March 2019, CMCs such as ALS were regulated by the Claims 
Management Regulator. And complaints about CMCs were dealt with by the Legal 
Ombudsman. On 1 April 2019 the regulation of CMCs switched to the Financial Conduct 
Authority, and complaints moved to the Claims Management Ombudsman. 
But the events Mr E is complaining about took place before this change in regulation, and so 
my decision is based on the approach the Claims Management Regulator and Legal 
Ombudsman would have taken. Scheme Rule 5.36 says that a complaint is to be determined 
by reference to what is, in the opinion of the ombudsman making the determination, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. In reaching my decision I need to 
determine whether ALS, as a CMC, has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with     
Mr E. 
ALS offered what are known as accident management services, which means they would 
provide certain services to someone who had been involved in a road traffic
accident that wasnt their fault. For example, they would typically arrange a hire car,
where needed, organise repairs, or determine the pre-accident value of the car if its
deemed non repairable and then claim these costs back from the at fault third party insurer 
(TPI). They would have a responsibility to mitigate any costs as the TPI wouldnt cover any 
costs incurred if they werent because of the accident or their party wasnt held liable for the 
accident.
I can see from ALS records that Mr E initially had tried to get the accident resolved with the 
third party himself. In September 2017, he contacted ALS and asked them to provide their 
accident management services. It wasnt until January 2018 that ALS provided these 
services as liability for the accident was in dispute. And it was only after they were given 
assurance in January 2018 by the solicitors acting for Mr E that the liability would be 
accepted that they provided their accident management services. They arranged for Mr E to 
have the use of a replacement vehicle, and their hire car agreement was signed 26 February 
2018.In July 2019 ALS said they were told by the solicitors that the court hearing wouldnt go 
ahead. I can see they were also told no further updates would be given as while ALS had 
referred Mr Es claim to the solicitors, they wouldnt consider themselves to have been  
instructed by ALS in the court hearing. Their instruction would have been from Mr E. I can 
see in the record that ALS asked the solicitors whether Mr E had been told by them that hed 
be liable for the outlay made by ALS for hire and repair costs because the case had been 
dropped. But they didnt provide a response to this that I can see.
Ive looked at the hire agreement Mr E had with ALS. The hire car agreement says:
49.6.  You are responsible for the costs of the claim until such time as they may be 
recovered from the at fault third party.
Mr E has said the agreement hed with ALS was on a no win no fee arrangement, but I 
havent seen any evidence of this on any of the documents ALS has provided. The hire car 
agreement details the daily hire car charges. And I think as stated above is clear that the 
costs would be the responsibility of the at fault party. As Mr E didnt contest the liability in 
court, Id consider the responsibility for the costs of the claim would be his as the third party 
wasnt determined to be at fault.
I can see from ALS records that in 2019 shortly after they were told the court hearing wasnt 
going ahead, they wrote to Mr E to the address they held on record. And suggested to Mr E 
that he submit his claim to his motor insurer. I think its also clear that if ALS didnt receive 
payment confirmation from Mr Es insurer that he would be liable for the repair and hire 
costs. 
Mr E has said ALS should have done more to communicate with him about the situation. 
And that there were other channels of communication they could have used. I can see the 
letter sent in 2019 is different from the address details Mr E has given to us. But I cant say 
ALS acted unreasonably in writing to the address they had on record for hm. 
ALS placed the debt recovery into the hands of solicitors but later found little to no action 
had been taken to recover the debt. And they asked another firm of solicitors to seek 
recovery. And it was from this contact Mr E found he was still responsible for the costs.
While I know its been some years since Mr Es  accident I think Mr E knew hed use of the 
hire car, that it wasnt possible to recover these costs from the third party as his court 
hearing didnt go ahead. And hed agreed to the terms and conditions of  the hire agreement. 
I know Mr E will be disappointed with my decision, but I think ALS had been clear the costs 
of the claim would be his responsibility as it wasnt possible to recover from the third party. 
So, I cant say ALS has acted unfairly or unreasonably in asking Mr E to pay the costs theyd 
incurred for the hire car charges.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman