DRN-3167550
The complaint
Miss H and Mr R complain that Vitality Life Limited (hereafter Vitality) unfairly declined Miss 
Hs income protection claim.
Miss H and Mr R are joint policy holders, but for the purposes of this decision Ill mainly be 
referring to Miss H.
What happened
Both sides are familiar with this complaint. The following is only a brief summary of what 
happened.
Miss H is a dental hygienist and jointly holds an insurance policy with Mr R that provides 
income protection cover. In October 2020 Miss H made a claim on this policy, and explained 
shed been unable to work because of pain in her right hand due to a repetitive strain injury.
Vitality declined the claim. It said there was a lack of supporting medical evidence and it 
couldnt conclude that Miss H had satisfied the relevant policy terms. It also said that its 
Chief Medical Officer had agreed that there wasnt enough objective evidence to support her 
claim. 
Miss H complained. She raised concerns about the claim decline and the level of service 
Vitality had provided  for example the way a member of staff had spoken to her, Vitalitys 
attempts to arrange an external assessment, and delays that she said it had caused.  
Vitality said it had declined Miss Hs claim fairly. It did acknowledge there had been some 
delays though, so it apologised, provided feedback to the relevant department, and awarded 
Miss H £50 in compensation. But Miss H remained unhappy and referred her complaint to 
this service. 
Our investigator thought the available evidence showed that Miss H was experiencing pain 
in her hand. But they didnt think it demonstrated the extent of any condition nor how it was 
impacting her ability to work. And so, they didnt think Vitality had declined the claim unfairly. 
Our investigator also agreed there had been some delays, but they thought Vitality could 
have done more when it came to attempting to arrange the external assessment. So they 
recommended it increased the compensation itd already awarded by another £50, taking the 
total amount of compensation for the service provided to £100.
Both sides agreed with the increase in compensation, but Miss H remained unhappy with the 
decline of her claim and said she couldnt have done anything more at the time to get 
additional medical evidence. As no agreement was reached on the declined claim, the 
matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with the relevant rules and regulations, Vitality has a responsibility to consider claims 
both promptly and fairly, and it must not reject them unreasonably. 
While I wont refer to every piece of evidence and argument made available in this 
complaint, having considered everything I am not persuaded that Vitality acted unreasonably 
in declining Miss Hs claim. Let me explain why.
The terms and conditions of Miss Hs income protection cover set out that Vitality will pay a 
regular benefit if Miss H becomes ill, injured or disabled and is unable to perform the 
material and substantial duties of her own occupation. 
Those terms mean it wouldnt be enough for Miss Hs medical evidence to just show that she 
was suffering from a hand injury. It would need to show that she was incapacitated by that 
injury, and that she was unable to perform the material and substantial duties of her 
occupation because of it. 
In December 2020, Miss Hs GP wrote a letter to Vitality summarising the involvement theyd 
had with Miss Hs care. Within that letter, the GP explained that Miss H had first consulted 
them about a repetitive strain injury in September 2020. They said Miss H had reported 
suffering from a fractured finger a number of years ago, and they explained that theyd told 
her she could request a further Med 3 (fitness for work certificate) if her symptoms flared up 
again. 
Miss H was signed off work by her GP, but in their letter the GP confirmed Miss H wasnt 
referred on to any other practitioners and that no investigations were performed either. They 
did provide a hypothetical opinion on how persistent symptoms could impact Miss Hs ability 
to work, but they also said, For (Miss H) to be able to return to work she would need to use 
the machine to deliver dental hygiene, but this is not recommended by the Govt. as it is AGP 
and (Miss H) is pregnant. 
Miss Hs GP medical records do reflect that she was further advised to have a discussion 
with a pharmacist about trying ibuprofen gel, and a discussion with her midwife about 
benefits for those that are pregnant and unable to work. But while I think the GP evidence 
can be considered as supportive of the pain Miss H was suffering from, I dont think it can 
reasonably be considered as evidence of Miss H being unable to perform the material and 
substantial duties of her occupation because of that pain.
As I understand matters, when Miss H was asked why she sought no further treatment for 
her hand she explained that she knew, following an unrelated matter, that no face to face 
consultations were taking place with physiotherapists because of various Covid-19 
restrictions and precautions. 
I can appreciate Miss Hs position on this, and I understand that she chose not to seek any 
further treatment. But in order for me to fairly direct Vitality to accept this claim, as I set out 
above Id need to be satisfied that there was an availability of evidence which demonstrated 
that she was incapacitated in line with the policy terms. It would be unfair of me to direct 
Vitality to accept her claim in the absence of this.
Miss H has provided an injury management treatment receipt from December 2020. But 
other than showing the cost of the treatment (£45) and it being provided by a sports 
therapist, the receipt doesnt offer any commentary around the nature or purpose of the 
treatment that was given. Miss H has also provided letters from the dental practices where she worked in support of 
her claim. But these appear to be observational in their nature and are not medical opinions 
on the impact of Miss Hs injury and her ability to perform her occupation. 
I have no reason to doubt that Miss H was experiencing pain in her hand. Her testimony sets 
out that she was, the evidence from her GP shows that shed spoken to them about her pain, 
and her places of work all commented on how swollen her hand appeared. Unfortunately 
though, I cannot fairly conclude that the evidence in this complaint demonstrates that she 
was unable to perform the material and substantial duties of her occupation because of her 
hand injury/pain. And while I realise Miss H will likely be further disappointed by this, I cannot 
fairly conclude that it was unreasonable of Vitality to decline her claim. 
Separate to the outcome of the claim, both sides have already agreed with the increase of 
£50 in compensation to reflect the level of service Vitality provided. 
This aspect of the complaint is no longer in dispute so I will not go on to address the service 
provided in full. But for the avoidance of doubt I will set out that, for largely the same reasons 
as our investigator, I too agree an additional £50 represents a fair and proportionate 
reflection of the impact Vitalitys actions had on Miss H. 
Putting things right
To put things right Vitality should pay an additional £50 in compensation  taking the total 
amount of compensation in this complaint to £100.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Vitality Life Limited should put things right in 
the way I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman