DRN-3242067
The complaint
Mr R complains that a car that was supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Hyundai Capital UK Limited, trading as Hyundai Finance, wasnt of satisfactory quality. He 
also complains about issues with his first payment under the agreement.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 23 November 2021 in which I described 
what had happened as follows:
A new car was supplied to Mr R under a conditional sale agreement with Hyundai 
Finance that he electronically signed in March 2020. There were some issues with 
the first payment under the agreement so Mr R complained to Hyundai Finance. It 
removed the £35 late payment fee from Mr Rs account and confirmed that no 
adverse information had been recorded on his credit file. Mr R also complained to 
Hyundai Finance about faults with the diesel particulate filter and gasket. The dealer 
repaired the fault but Mr R complained about further issues with the car. Hyundai 
Finance arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert and Mr R 
complained to this service.
Our investigator thought that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality or reasonably 
durable at the point of supply and he recommended that it should be collected from 
Mr R and that Hyundai Finance should provide him with a like-for-like replacement. 
He also recommended that it should pay him £150 compensation due to delays since 
it had received the independent experts findings.
Hyundai Finance accepted those recommendations but there were then issues with 
providing a like-for-like replacement to Mr R and another of our investigators 
considered his complaint. He said that a like-for-like replacement hadnt been found 
and Mr R had been offered a replacement car but the interior differed and was not to 
Mr Rs liking. He said that the independent experts report had confirmed that the 
repairs had failed and the faults would have been present at finance inception. He 
thought that the fairest outcome would be to allow Mr R to reject the car. He 
recommended that Hyundai Finance should: end the agreement and collect the car; 
refund the deposit, with interest; remove any adverse information from Mr Rs credit 
file; and compensate him with £150.
Hyundai Finance said that it was liaising with the dealer about a replacement car but 
Mr R has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that 
he was only offered one replacement car which was wholly unacceptable, Hyundai 
Capital has consistently refused to engage with him and he still feels that his original 
request for the car to be replaced should be considered even though the model 
specification has changed. He says that if the car is to be rejected then his monthly 
payments should be refunded as he made his original request to reject the car within 
thirty days of taking delivery of it (or that he should at least be entitled to a refund of 
the payments made from when the car was inspected in August 2020 and found to 
be faulty). He also says that a compensation payment of £150 does nothing to offset 
the harm that the treatment by Hyundai Finance has caused to his mental health.
I set out in my provisional decision why I agreed with the our investigators recommendation 
that Mr R should be able to reject the car and the reasons that I considered that Hyundai 
Finance should do more to put things right and my provisional findings were:
Hyundai Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr R - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr R was a new car and I consider that it was 
reasonable for him to expect that it would be free from even minor defects;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
Mr R complained to Hyundai Finance about issues with the car in March 2020, only a 
few days after it had been supplied to him and he said that he wanted to reject the 
car - but it was repaired by the dealer and returned to him;
he complained to Hyundai Finance about other faults with the car in June 2020 and it 
arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert;
the inspection took place in August 2020, the cars mileage was recorded at that time 
as 5,875 and the inspection report confirmed that there were faults with the cars 
diesel particulate filter which would have been present at finance inception;
I consider it to be more likely than not that there were faults with the car when it was 
supplied to Mr R and that it wasnt of satisfactory quality at that time;
its clear that Mr R would have liked the car to be replaced but a like-for-like 
replacement hasnt been found by the dealer, the replacement that was offered to 
him wasnt acceptable and the model specification has now changed  so I dont 
consider that replacing the car is a fair or reasonable outcome in these 
circumstances;
I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for Hyundai Finance to allow Mr R to 
reject the car so I find that it should end the conditional sale agreement and arrange 
for the car to be collected from him  both at no cost to Mr R;
the agreement shows that Mr R made an advance payment of £10,024.15 for the car 
and I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Hyundai Finance to refund that 
payment to him with interest (if it considers that the advance payment was less than 
that amount it should provide further information in response to this provisional 
decision);
Mr R has continued to use the car and I consider that its fair and reasonable for him 
to pay for the use that hes had from it so Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Hyundai Finance to refund all of the monthly payments 
that hes made under the agreement;
his use and enjoyment of the car will have been impacted by the issues with it, 
particularly as this was a new car with a price of £33,288, and hes had to return it to 
the dealer for repairs  I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Hyundai Finance 
to refund to Mr R the first three monthly payments that he made under the agreement 
as compensation for that loss of use and enjoyment, with interest  I consider that its fair and reasonable for it to keep the other monthly payments that hes made as 
payment for the use that hes had from the car;
Mr R asked to reject the car in March 2020, the independent expert confirmed the 
faults with the car in August 2020 and our investigator said that he should be 
provided with a like-for-like replacement in January 2021 - but he says that he was 
only offered one replacement which was unacceptable;
twenty months later he still has the car that wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to him, and hes referred to the impact that these events have had on his 
mental health  I consider that Hyundai Finance should have done more than it has 
done to resolve this complaint and I consider that its failure to do so has caused Mr R 
additional distress and inconvenience;
I sympathise with him for the issues that hes experienced, the impact on his mental 
health and the distress and inconvenience that hes been caused and I find that it 
would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Hyundai Finance to also pay 
him £500 to compensate him for that distress and inconvenience;
Mr R has complained about some issues with the first payment under the agreement 
- Hyundai Finance removed the £35 late payment fee that it had applied to his 
account and confirmed that no adverse information had been recorded on his 
account; and
Mr R was clearly upset about those issues but Im not persuaded that it would now 
be fair or reasonable for me to require Hyundai Finance to take any further action 
about that  though I find that it should remove any information about the agreement 
that its recorded on his credit file.
Subject to any further comments from Mr R or from Hyundai Finance my provisional decision 
was that I intended to uphold this complaint. Mr R has accepted my provisional decision but 
says that:
the dealer attempted to repair the fault but it was a failed repair so its not a new 
issue;
Hyundai Finance has refused to engage with him and hes had no contact from it 
since August 2020; and 
he suggests that he should return the car after the relevant funds have been paid to 
him and any rectification of his credit account has been completed. 
Hyundai Finance has provided a detailed response from the dealer to my provisional 
decision and says that:
it doesnt dispute that there was an initial issue with the car which was repaired in 
March 2020;
Mr Rs continual use of the car isnt in line with rejection and if a customer is pursuing 
rejection it would not expect anything more than necessary trips (if any); and
if the car is to be rejected it would look to charge between 35p and 45p per mile as 
Mr R has driven more than 29,000 miles in the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The only independent evidence about the car that is available is the inspection that was arranged by Hyundai Finance, the report of which confirmed that there were faults with the 
diesel particulate filter which would have been present at finance inception. The dealer 
says its done everything possible to deal with any defects on the car and it tried to find a 
like-for-like replacement car for Mr R but that wasnt possible.
The cars mileage at the time of the inspection was 5,875 miles and Mr R has continued to 
use the car because a replacement hasnt been provided and Hyundai Finance hasnt 
allowed him to reject it. I dont consider it to be unreasonable for Mr R to have continued to 
use the car or that his continued use of it is enough to show that the car was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to him. Mr R has continued to make his monthly payments for 
the car and Im not persuaded that he should be required to pay for usage of the car at a rate 
of 35p to 45p per mile.
I consider that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr R and Im not 
persuaded that I should change the findings that I made in my provisional decision. I can 
understand Mr Rs concerns about returning the car before he receives payment from 
Hyundai Finance but Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it 
to do that and, if Mr R accepts this decision, it will be binding on Hyundai Finance so it will 
have to take the actions that Ive described. 
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Hyundai Finance to take the actions described 
in my provisional decision and as set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint and I order Hyundai Capital UK Limited, trading 
as Hyundai Finance, to:
1. End the conditional sale agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from Mr R 
 both at no cost to him.
2. Refund to Mr R the advance payment of £10,024.15 that he made for the car. 
3. Refund to Mr R the first three monthly payments that he made under the agreement 
as compensation for the loss of use and enjoyment of the car that hes suffered.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from 
the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5. Remove any information about the conditional sale agreement that its recorded on 
Mr Rs credit file.
6. Pay £500 to Mr R to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Hyundai Finance to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to at 4 above. Hyundai Finance must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax 
its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman