DRN-3843009
The complaint
Miss E complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) delayed the 
settlement of her mobile phone insurance claim. 
What happened
Miss E has a mobile phone insurance policy as a benefit of her packaged bank account. In 
July 2022, she logged a claim as her phone was damaged. She also paid the required £100 
policy excess. As Miss E then went on holiday, Assurant didnt receive the damaged phone 
until 15 August 2022. After the phone was processed, there were further delays and the 
claim was eventually settled on 5 September 2022.
In response to the complaint, Assurant paid Miss E £70 compensation to reflect the delay in 
settling the claim. They said one reason for the delay was they needed to place the claim on 
hold once they noticed Miss Es request for the pictures on her device to be saved. As they 
dont provide that service, and to progress the claim all the data on her phone would need to 
be wiped. However, they unfortunately failed to contact Miss E about this issue for five 
working days. They also highlighted the bank holiday which caused a further delay. 
Miss E didnt think Assurants offer was fair. She said the compensation amount should be 
increased, and the policy excess refunded to reflect the distress and inconvenience this 
matter caused her. However, Assurants position remained the same.
An investigator at this service then considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said 
Assurant had acted fairly by applying the policy excess and he thought £70 compensation 
was a fair and reasonable amount.
Miss E then requested a final decision, and said it wasnt fair shed been treated so poorly.
So, Ive considered the complaint afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy terms and conditions explain that in the event of a claim, a £100 policy 
excess is payable. I appreciate Miss E is unhappy with the way her claim was 
handled but as she ultimately made a successful claim, I see no grounds for 
concluding this fee should be refunded. 
Miss Es policy covers her for damage to her phone. Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions of the policy and it doesnt guarantee repair or replacement in any set 
period of time. However, I do note that guidance on their website suggests they'll aim 
to settle a claim within three working days. Unfortunately, Assurant werent able to do 
this here, and this meant Miss E went without a phone for longer than she expected. 
I dont think Assurant acted unreasonably by deciding to place the claim on hold 
when their engineer read Miss Es written request. As she said Please if at all 
possible, try to remove the photos on this phone. Weve tried and failed but my son 
has some important A level photos on there.  Under the circumstances, I think 
continuing to progress the claim without first contacting Miss E wouldnt have been 
appropriate or fair. As the unexpected loss of the photos, could have caused 
significant upset. 
Assurant have said there was an unreasonable delay in contacting Miss E to discuss 
the above concern. I agree and think this should reasonably have taken place on the 
17 August 2022 as this is the date the problem was identified. However, no attempts 
were made until 24 August 2022. This meant Miss E was left under the impression, 
her phone was in the process of being repaired or replaced and that wasnt the case. 
Assurant received Miss Es consent to proceed with the claim on 26 August 2022, but 
due to the bank holiday they didnt reply until 30 August 2022. This delay was 
unavoidable, but its possible Miss E would have responded sooner, if she had been 
contacted about the issue straight away. I also note that Miss E was advised her 
phone would be dispatched on 1 September 2022, but there appears to have been a 
further delay as she didnt receive the phone until 5 September 2022. So, Im 
satisfied the claim took longer than it reasonably should have done.
Assurant have paid Miss E £70 compensation to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience, they caused her throughout this claim. I appreciate this decision will 
come as a disappointment to Miss E, but having carefully considered all the delays, 
and the impact of this matter, I dont see any grounds for directing Assurant to do 
anything more. They responded to the complaint quickly, acknowledged the upset 
they had caused and paid a reasonable amount of compensation. So, they did 
everything I would reasonably expect, and I make no further award.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman