DRN-3788450
Complaint
Mr S is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) closed his account and 
recorded a fraud prevention marker against him. 
Background
In April 2019, Mr S account received a credit of £1,600.00. The vast majority of the funds 
were immediately exited. The remainder was transferred elsewhere along with some of Mr S 
funds. NatWest subsequently received a notification from the third-party bank which sent the 
payment to Mr S account stating that the sender of the funds had reported being a victim of 
fraud. NatWest reviewed Mr S account. As a result of its investigation, NatWest decided to 
close Mr S account and also record a fraud prevention marker.
Once he learned of the fraud prevention marker Mr S complained. NatWest looked at Mr S 
complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr S remained dissatisfied he referred the matter to our 
service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr S concerns. He didnt think that NatWest had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr S disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that NatWest has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr S is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that NatWest must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr S account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
NatWest also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr S was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr S allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr S complaint, I need to decide whether I think NatWest had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr S account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that NatWest has done this 
here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr S 
account in April 2019, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr S was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
When questioned about the activity on his account, Mr S told our adjudicator that he had no 
idea about the activity that took place on his account in April 2019. He remembered having 
to provide his account number and sort code when applying for jobs and he believed his 
account was hacked as a result. 
Ive thought about what Mr S has said. But, in truth, Im satisfied that the available evidence 
shows that Mr S was more likely than not complicit in the fraudulent activity which took 
place. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr S NatWest account was hacked  especially as 
any hacker would have needed more than just Mr S sort code and account number to have 
made the withdrawals and transfers in question. 
Indeed, it looks as though Mr S account was being used normally right up until the activity in 
question and I find it incredibly odd that he wouldnt have reported matters to NatWest in 
2019 when £300 of his own funds appear to have been transferred at this time.
Im afraid that the implausibility of Mr S version of events means I cant reasonably conclude 
he was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I think its more likely than not that he was 
complicit in the fraudulent activity which took place on his account. So I dont think that 
NatWest acted unfairly towards Mr S when recording the fraud marker.
I now turn to the closure of Mr S account. The terms and conditions of Mr Ss account 
permitted NatWest to close it where it reasonably suspect that your account (or any other 
account you hold with us) has been used, is being used or is likely to be used, for an illegal 
purpose. Ive already explained why I think NatWest was reasonably entitled to conclude 
that Mr S account had been used for fraudulent purposes when explaining why it didnt act 
unfairly in recording the fraud prevention marker. 
As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, for much the same reasons, the terms and 
conditions permitted NatWest to close Mr S account. And Im therefore not upholding Mr S 
complaint on this basis either.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr S. But I hope Mr S will understand the 
reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. 
Furthermore, Mr S might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as 
he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman