DRN-3211386
The complaint
Miss A complains that the online service she received from Hedgehog Limited (Hedgehog) 
was defective.
There are several parties and representatives of Hedgehog involved throughout the claim 
but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Hedgehog.
What happened
Miss A has a motor insurance policy that she bought through Hedgehog. She contacted 
Hedgehog to update her policy with a change of car via its online service. She said there 
were a number of problems with the online service. 
Miss A bought a new car and needed to change her motor insurance that evening so she 
was able to insure it and drive it home from where she had bought it. She tried to make the 
change to her policy using Hedgehogs online service. 
Miss A was unable to complete this, so she sent three emails to it requesting help but didnt 
get a reply. She also rang the accident telephone number. As she was unable to update her 
policy through the online service she could not drive the new car home. She had to get a lift.
Miss A managed to organise the insurance on the online service later that same evening.
The following day Miss A had to get a lift to collect her new car. She said this 
inconvenienced her.
She complained to Hedgehog. Hedgehog believed that its online portal had been working 
but it paid her £40 compensation as a gesture of goodwill, as she had not been able to 
update her policy using its online service without difficulty. Miss A said this should be 
increased as it did not cover the time and trouble it caused for her and other people involved 
in leaving the new car and going back to collect it once it was insured.
As Miss A was not happy with Hedgehog, she brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold her complaint. He looked into the case and didnt think that 
Hedgehogs level of service fell below the standard he would expect. He felt the gesture of 
goodwill payment was reasonable.
As Miss A is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for 
a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Miss A decided to change her car she had to contact Hedgehog to make the 
amendments to her policy. She was not happy with the online service that she received from 
Hedgehog.
  
I have looked in detail at the contact between Miss A and Hedgehog and summarise as 
follows
4 May 2021
Miss A attempted to get a quote for a change of car on her motor insurance policy using 
the Hedgehog online service but it would not complete.
Miss A contacted Hedgehog via its online chat and was advised to try using another 
browser. This didnt resolve the issue.
Miss A contacted Hedgehog again via online chat. The agent at Hedgehog was able to 
log in to her acount and produce the quote for her straight away.
The agent at Hedgehog asked Miss A if she wished to change her policy but she said 
she only wanted the quote.
The actual cause of Miss A not being able to obtain the quote was not found. The cause 
could potentially have been a system error or user error but neither was confirmed. 
Hedgehog said it had not had any other reported quote issues or defects on this date so 
there wasnt a wider issue. 
As the quote Miss A wanted was obtained during the online chat and the cause of her issue 
was not found, I cannot be certain there was a defect in Hedgehogs online system. I do not 
think that there is anything more Hedgehog could have done at this point. 
5 May 2021
Miss A agreed to purchase the car that she had obtained the quote for the previous day.
Miss A tried to update her motor insurance policy with the details of her new car using 
the Hedgehog online service and was unable to complete it.
Miss A sent three emails to Hedgehog asking for help. These were sent between 7.30pm 
and 10.38pm.
In an attempt to obtain help to change the details of the car insured on her policy she 
rang the claims line. She was unable to get any assistance as this phone line was for 
claims only.
Miss A left the car with the seller and returned home. She had to get a lift home.
When she arrived home she tried again to use the Hedgehog online service to update 
her motor insurance policy with the details of the new car. After a number of attempts 
she was able to complete this. An automated email from Hedgehog confirmed this was 
completed at 10.49pm.
Again Hedgehog said that there were no reported system issues on this date. It said it had 
not made any fixes to its system during the timescales Miss A had started, and finally 
completed, the changes to her policy.
I can understand Miss As frustration with these technical issues, as she expected that using 
the online account to update her insurance would be a simple and quick process.
The cause of Miss A not being able to update her details using the online service is 
inconclusive. It has not been proven if it was an IT system or user fault. Hedgehog said  Whilst it is clear something was not right, we are satisfied this was an isolated incident and 
have not been able to determine if this is a website issue or a connection problem. 
Considering the available evidence I can see there was a total of just over three hours from 
Miss A making the first attempt through the online service to update her policy and to finally 
complete the required change. During these three hours she also sent the three emails and 
travelled back to her home. As all of this activity was outside Hedgehogs customer service 
opening hours, I dont think that it had the opportunity to take any action to assist her or do 
anything to speed up the changes to her policy.
I think Hedgehogs payment of £40 in compensation is fair in these circumstances and think 
that it is adequate for both Miss As frustations with Hedgehogs system and the 
inconvenience of her having to get a lift home and back to collect her new car the following 
day. 
I dont think that Hedgehog could have done anything any differently in this case and so I 
dont uphold Miss As complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman