DRN-3357831
The complaint
Mr E says Lendable Ltd irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about a 36-month instalment loan for £1,550 that Lendable provided to
Mr E on 12 March 2021. The monthly repayments were £73.73 and the total repayable was
£2,597.45.
Mr E says Lendable did not properly take into account his financial situation. His bank 
statements would have shown he was gambling and that the loan was not affordable for him. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Es complaint. He said Lendables checks were 
proportionate and did not give any reason not to lend. 
Mr E asked for an ombudsmans review re-iterating the reasons he thought Lendable was 
wrong to lend to him and adding he should be entitled to the interest back.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Es complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Lendable complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that            
Mr M would be able to repay the loan without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
- If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Mr E wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Lendable act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Lendable to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Es ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Lendable had to think about whether repaying
the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr E. In practice this meant that
business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr E undue
difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Lendable to simply think about the likelihood of it getting
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr E. Checks also
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Es complaint.
Lendable has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for some information
from Mr E. It asked for his monthly income, his employment status and his residential status.
It completed an income verification check with a third-party and, it says, further verified this 
as Mr E gave access to his online banking. It carried out a credit check to understand his 
credit history and his existing credit commitments. Based on these checks Lendable thought 
it was fair to lend.
I think these checks were proportionate given the value of the loan and the early stage in the 
lending relationship. In addition, the monthly repayment was less than 4% of Mr Es net 
income.
I also think Lendable made a fair decision based on the information it gathered. The credit 
check showed that Mr E had a low level of debt when he applied - £1,521. And he was up-
to-date with all his active accounts, and had been for the 36 months prior. There were two 
defaults on his file, but these were from 2015 and it would not have been fair for Lendable to 
decline his application based on such historic data.
Mr E argues that his bank statements would have showed multiple gambling transactions. 
But a lender is not obliged to check bank statements and for the reasons set out above I 
dont think it would have been proportionate for Lendable to carry out a more detailed 
financial review which might have revealed Mr E was having problems managing his money. 
That said, Lendable says it did see Mr Es bank statements as he accessed them online 
when he applied. It explains double-checked his salary this way. And it says it did not see 
any gambling transactions on the account. As Lendable seems not to have kept a record of 
what it saw I cant validate this. And I accept that this does not mean Mr E wasnt gambling  
he may have used more than one current account, or funded it some other way. But this 
does not change my conclusion as I have found in the circumstances of this application the 
checks were proportionate, and based on what they showed the lending decision fair. It follows I dont think Lendable was wrong to lend to Mr E.
Did Lendable act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I dont find that it did. I can see Mr E had problems meeting his repayments. Lendable 
appears to have responded appropriately, placing the account on hold and later agreeing to 
a reduced repayment plan.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman