DRN-4428903
The complaint
Ms G has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (C&G) 
unfairly demanded an increase in the premium after she made a claim under her pet 
insurance policy.
What happened
Ms G took out a pet insurance policy for her dog online. She paid the premium in instalments 
by direct debit. She made a claim for £491.38 after her dog became ill. C&G said when Ms G 
applied for her policy, she hadnt answered the question about the dogs breed correctly. 
Shed told C&G the dog was a Mongrel but her vet had described the dog as a Corgi-Cross. 
C&G settled the claim for £213.90 after deducting premiums of £168.06 and various items 
which werent covered by the policy. They increased the direct debit from £17.98 to £32.10 a 
month and took one further payment before Ms G cancelled her direct debit.
Ms G wasnt happy with that and brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. I 
issued a provisional decision. An extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
C&G thinks Ms G made a misrepresentation when she answered that her dog was a 
mongrel when taking out this policy.
Ive looked at screenshots C&G say are representative of what Ms G would have seen at 
that time. On balance, I find that Ms G didnt take reasonable care when answering this clear 
question about the breed of the dog. I say this because:
The options available to select were the specific breed, cross breed, or mongrel;
If Ms G had clicked the Help icon near this question, she would have been told:
Select pedigree if your dogs parents are both the same breed., or crossbreed if 
they have parents from two different breeds. If youre not sure what breed they are (or 
if theyre a mix of several different breeds) select mongrel.
If Ms G had selected the crossbreed option, shed have been asked what the main 
breed was and could have selected Corgi.
The vet has referred to the dog in invoices as Corgi X and Crossbreed; 
The dogs clinical history lists the dog as a Corgi X breed; and
Ms G signed the claim form which referred to the dogs breed as Corgimix.
On balance, I think the most appropriate answer to this question would have been cross
breed rather than mongrel.
C&G has provided evidence that shows if the question been answered correctly, theyd still 
have provided cover but charged a higher policy premium of £404.67 a year instead of 
£215.82.
This means Im satisfied that Ms Gs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
C&G hasnt been clear in how theyve classified Ms Gs misrepresentation here. I consider it 
to have been a careless misrepresentation - rather than deliberate or reckless. I say this 
because I believe it to have been a mistake by Ms G rather than an attempt to deliberately 
misrepresent the breed of the dog or risk she wanted to insure. 
Ive then looked at the actions C&G can take in accordance with CIDRA. As a claim had 
been made here, under CIDRA, C&G was entitled to settle the claim proportionately. Its not 
clear to me whether C&G did that as they referred to the deduction of £168.06 from the claim 
settlement as Premiums. However, elsewhere they said that they were deducting a 
percentage of the underinsurance amount from the claim. I should be grateful if in response 
to this provisional decision C&G would clarify whether they made a proportionate reduction 
in the amount of the claim made and if so, what the percentage reduction was.
For completeness, C&G could have offered the option of paying the shortfall in premium but 
they cant require it to be paid. So, C&G shouldnt have increased the direct debit payment 
without Ms Gs consent. This isnt listed as an option under CIDRA in this scenario.
However I am not intending to require C&G to repay the increased instalment of the 
premium which it took by direct debit. Thats because the policy says the full annual premium 
will be due on cancellation if a claim has been made.
I therefore accept that it would be reasonable for C&G to claim from Ms G the remaining 
premiums due for the policy year at the original monthly rate.
.
If they have not already assessed the claim on this basis, Im intending to require C&G to 
reassess Ms Gs claim by applying a proportionate reduction to the amount claimed or paid. 
This should reflect the proportion by which her annual premium was underpaid as against 
the annual premium she should have paid in the policy year if correct information had been 
given.
C&G may deduct from any further sum due to Ms G as a result of such reassessment any 
instalments of premium remaining due from Ms G for the policy year at the original rate of 
£17.98 a month.
In response to my provisional decision C&G has confirmed that it made a proportionate 
deduction of 43.97% from the claim settlement to reflect the percentage by which Ms G was 
underinsured. It calculated that based on the original premium there was still an amount 
outstanding from Ms G as on the cancellation of the policy she was liable to pay the full 
annual premium.
Ms G had no further evidence to provide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As C&G has clarified that it settled the claim on a proportionate basis in accordance with 
CIDRA, I dont think it has treated Ms G unfairly or unreasonably. As explained above, it 
wasnt entitled to increase the direct debit payment without Ms Gs consent. But it wouldnt 
be right for me to require C&G to repay the difference in premium as it appears that overall 
Ms G still owes C&G in respect of outstanding premiums for the remainder of the policy year 
after cancellation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman