DRN-3741479
The complaint
Mr E complains that eBay Commerce UK Ltd delayed processing payments into his bank 
account. Hes also unhappy with the customer service he received when he contacted eBay. 
What happened
In mid-2022, Mr E contacted eBay because payments from his eBay account hadnt been 
processed into his bank account as expected. Mr E says an eBay adviser told him there 
were no problems eBays end, so he called his bank. His bank said no payments had been 
made from eBay and none were pending. Mr E contacted eBay again and spoke to another 
adviser, who said they had just been informed about a payment issue.
Mr E complained to eBay but he wasnt satisfied with its response. So, he asked our service 
to consider his complaint.
Our investigator looked into Mr Es concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
She acknowledged there was a small delay in Mr E receiving his funds. But she was 
satisfied that this was due to a technical issue that eBay had apologised for. She was 
satisfied eBay had acted in line with its terms of use.
Mr E disagreed with our investigators outcome. He felt that eBay had been dishonest and 
should have got things right faster. He said eBay knew there was an issue before he 
contacted it but didnt tell him. This caused him to blame his bank and waste an hour on the 
phone. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint. Ill explain why.
eBay has acknowledged there was a delay in processing Mr Es payments on 14 and 15 
June 2022. It says this was due to a technical issue and has referred to its Payments terms 
of use which says: If we have acted with reasonable precautions and/or in accordance with 
our legal obligations, we are not liable for any unauthorized, incorrectly, unexecuted, or 
delayed payment transactions when such issues were caused by abnormal and 
unforeseeable circumstances beyond our control.
Mr E says that when he first spoke to eBay about the issue on the morning of 15 June, he 
was told there was no problem eBays end. I dont doubt it was frustrating for Mr E to find 
that wasnt the case when he spoke to eBay again later that day. eBay has provided a copy 
of an email it sent to Mr E advising him of the technical issues. But it looks like this was sent 
late on 15 June, which would have been after Mr Es conversations with eBay.
Mr E has suggested that eBay deliberately gave him the wrong information in order to 
deceive him. However, hes also said that the second adviser he spoke to told him they had 
just been informed about a payment problem. So, I think its likely that the first adviser Mr E 
spoke to simply wasnt aware of the technical issue at the time.
Mr E says that because of the inaccurate information he was initially given by eBay, he 
accused his bank of being at fault. He says he also wasted over an hour on the phone. I 
appreciate this was inconvenient for Mr E. However, using financial services wont always be 
totally hassle free and our service wont always award compensation, even if we think a 
business has made a mistake  especially when the impact is minimal. 
ebay gave Mr E the correct information the same day and has apologised for the 
inconvenience caused by the technical issue. The technical issue itself also appears to have 
been resolved quickly. So, while I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Mr E, I 
dont require eBay to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman