DRN-3879821
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how Admiral Insurance Company Limited handled a claim under his 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H called Admiral in April 2022 because his car had been damaged. Admiral said it 
wouldnt be economical to repair the car and wrote it off. It valued the car at £1,895. 
Mr H complained. He felt as though Admiral had talked him out of getting the car repaired 
and he didnt think the valuation was anywhere near the market valuation. He was also 
unhappy with the service provided by Admiral. In reply, Admiral accepted its communication 
with Mr H had been poor. Hed had to chase for updates and it hadnt called him when it said 
it would. It also accepted it had delayed in dealing with his complaint. It apologised and gave 
Mr H £200 for the trouble and upset caused. But it didnt feel as though it had tried to 
convince Mr H not to repair his car. And it thought the valuation was fair. Mr H wasnt happy 
with this response and so brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the £200 Admiral had offered for the poor service it had identified 
was reasonable. But he didnt think Admirals valuation was fair. He said the Cazoo guide 
had given a valuation of £4,806 and he thought Admiral should therefore increase its offer to 
£3,350, which was the average of that valuation and the valuation reached by Admiral. He 
also thought Admiral should add 8% interest to that payment. 
Admiral didnt agree with our investigators view. It said the Cazoo valuation was based on a 
vehicle with less than half the mileage of Mr Hs car and it couldnt understand how that 
could be considered as viable evidence. As Admiral disagreed with the investigators view, 
the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Valuation
I should explain that its not my role to value Mr Hs car. This services approach is to assess 
whether the insurers offer is reasonable. This is a subtle distinction but its an important one. 
And in looking at whether Admiral has acted fairly and reasonably, I must bear in mind that 
valuing a car isnt an exact science.
Our service has a long-established approach to car valuations. It looks at the valuations 
given by the specialist on-line motor trade guides, as well as considering other information 
such as adverts. But we tend to find the guides most persuasive as theyre based on 
research across the country and work out the likely retail selling price rather than advertised 
asking prices.
In this case, Admiral said it couldnt get a valuation from the online guide it usually used due 
to the age and mileage of Mr Hs car. So, it instead asked an independent assessor to 
provide a valuation. The assessor valued Mr Hs car as £1,895. I can see that they used 
photographs of the damaged vehicle to reach that valuation but otherwise its not entirely 
clear from the report they prepared how they arrived at that amount. 
Our investigator also found he couldnt get valuations from several of the online guides this 
service usually uses due to the age and mileage of Mr Hs car. But he did manage to get a 
valuation from Cazoo, which was for £4,806. Thats a significant difference from the 
valuation given by the independent assessor. Admiral questioned the valuation, saying it 
seemed to have been based on one vehicle that had been sold with a mileage less than half 
of Mr Hs car. But I think thats a misunderstanding of the Cazoo valuation, which is based 
on extensive nationwide research of advertised prices from all the different sales channels. 
Its not based on just one sale. Nonetheless, the difference between the valuations is 
significant and as we have only two valuations, Ive also looked at other sources to help 
decide a fair valuation.
As Ive said above, we dont usually find advertised prices persuasive, as theyre not selling 
prices, although I think its worth noting that increasingly were hearing that cars are selling 
either for, or close, to their advertised price due to recent changes in the market. In any 
event, in the absence of any other evidence, I looked for adverts of vehicles of a similar 
specification and similar age and mileage to Mr Hs vehicle. There were very few of the 
same age but there were newer vehicles with similar or greater mileages. Those were 
advertised between £2,800 and £3,995, although they were several years newer than Mr Hs 
vehicle. Even more modern vehicles with similar mileages were advertised between £4,995 
and £8,950. Ive also seen vehicles of a similar age to Mr Hs with advertised prices lower 
than the valuation offered by Admiral. But generally speaking, those vehicles were not in as 
good a condition as Mr Hs vehicle. While not conclusive, I think the prices shown across all 
the adverts Ive seen suggest that Mr Hs vehicle is worth more than the £1,895 offered by 
Admiral. But not as much as indicated by Cazoo. 
As Ive said, valuing a car isnt an exact science. But, from what Ive seen, Im not persuaded 
the valuation Admiral gave Mr H is fair and reasonable. Our investigator thought an average 
of the two valuations would be a reasonable way of resolving this matter. And, in the unusual 
circumstances of this complaint where we have so few reference points, I think thats a fair 
approach to take. 
Claim handling
Mr H also complained about several aspects of the way Admiral handled his claim. He felt as 
though Admiral had talked him out of getting his vehicle repaired. Ive listened to the call 
Mr H made to Admiral when he made his claim and I think the call hander explained the 
options open to him clearly and thoroughly. It was clear that Mr H wasnt sure whether to get 
the vehicle repaired himself or pursue the option of a settlement, and he wanted time to think 
about that. But I dont think Admiral tried to persuade him to accept any particular option 
over another. 
Mr H was also unhappy that Admiral cancelled his policy without notifying him, leaving him 
driving his vehicle uninsured for two days. He said call backs werent made as promised, 
and Admiral continued to email him instead of calling him even though he told them he 
preferred the latter. He also wasnt happy with the delay in handling his complaint. Admiral 
has accepted it provided a poor service and offered to pay Mr H a total of £200 for the 
trouble and upset, and inconvenience, this caused. I think it was right that Admiral 
acknowledged its shortcomings and, in the circumstances, I think the amount it offered is fair 
and reasonable. Putting things right
As Ive said above, I dont think Admirals valuation of Mr Hs car was fair. I think a more 
reasonable valuation would be based on an average of Admirals valuation and that provided 
by Cazoo. That gives an amount of £3,350.50. I also think Admiral should add 8% interest to 
the difference between that sum and the initial sum offered by Admiral. Further, Admiral 
should pay Mr H the £200 it offered him for the poor service it provided if it hasnt done so 
already.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to do the following:
pay Mr H £3,350.50 for his car;
add interest to the sum between that quoted above and the sum initially offered to 
Mr H, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of the offer to the date of 
settlement1;
pay Mr H £200 compensation if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman
1 If Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr H a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.