DRN-3352047
The complaint
B, a limited company, is represented in this complaint by Miss P  one of its directors. The 
complaint is that HSBC UK Bank Plc allowed the other director of B to make payments from 
the business account without Miss Ps consent.
What happened
Miss P is one of two directors of a limited company, which Ill refer to as B. Following a 
dispute with the other director, Miss P asked HSBC to put a temporary block on their 
business account in June 2020. Shortly afterwards, both directors agreed to change the 
existing requirement from only one party to sign, to two parties needing to sign for 
instructions carried out on the account. This was implemented in July 2020. And around the 
same time, HSBC removed the block from the account.
In November 2020, Miss P noticed three online transfers made from the account totalling 
close to £10,000 which she hadnt agreed to. Following further conversations with HSBC, 
Miss P was told that the payments were made by the other director. Miss P was unhappy 
that HSBC allowed these payments to go ahead without her consent. So, she complained.
HSBC reviewed the complaint and explained that it didnt think it had made an error. Miss P 
remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. She explained that she was 
seeking personal reimbursement for the transactions that were made and compensation for 
the overall stress and impact of the matter on her mental health. She outlined the effect the 
matter was having on her credit file and explained that the situation had prevented her from 
trading and from selling B as planned.
In its submissions to this service, HSBC explained that the other director was the primary 
user for the internet banking services on the account. It said that the terms and conditions of 
internet banking allow the primary user to make online transfers from the account, 
irrespective of any other mandates which had been applied. So, it didnt think it had made an 
error by processing the payments. It had also placed another block on the account in light of 
the ongoing dispute between the directors.
One of our investigators reviewed matters and didnt recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. In summary, he said the overall communication from HSBC couldve been clearer. 
But, ultimately, it hadnt made an error as the internet banking terms superseded any 
mandate which was implemented. In relation to the new block on the account, he explained 
that this was due to the ongoing dispute between the directors and that matters moving 
forward would be best resolved by both directors coming to an agreement.
HSBC didnt dispute our investigators findings but Miss P did and, in summary, mostly 
repeated her earlier points. Miss P also disputed that she had requested the removal of the 
block in July 2020, which was further reason why the payments she noticed in 
November 2020 shouldnt have been processed. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to review. I initially issued 
a provisional decision outlining that I didnt think the complaint was one this service could 
consider, as I didnt think Miss P was an eligible complainant. I said this because Miss P had 
been clear that she was bringing the complaint as a director of B and not B itself. 
Additionally, Miss P outlined that part of the resolution she was seeking was personal 
reimbursement for the transactions that were made and compensation for the overall stress 
and impact on her mental health. So, I didnt consider that B was the eligible complainant 
here.
I then went on to consider whether Miss P could be eligible as a consumer. However, the 
rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out that a person must be acting for 
purposes outside his trade, business or profession. As Miss P was complaining about 
payments that left Bs account, I thought she was acting in the course of her business when 
bringing the complaint. I also outlined that the second part of the rule states that a person 
must have a complaint arising from matters relevant to their relationship with the bank. But 
Miss P didnt have an established relationship with the bank, B did as it was the banks 
customer and not Miss P. So, overall, I didnt think Miss P was an eligible complainant.
I also thought it was important for Miss P to be aware that even if the complaint were to be 
brought by B, with Miss P as a representative, this service wouldnt be able to recommend 
the redress Miss P had asked for, as she had asked for personal compensation to be paid. 
And Miss P wouldnt be the complainant  B would. This service could therefore only 
consider Bs losses. However, in this instance, whilst Miss P says the payments made by the 
other director have caused a loss to B, its likely the other director would argue otherwise. 
And, this service doesnt have the investigative remit to decide whether the payments that 
were made were a definite loss to B.
I also acknowledged the more recent issues relating to the block on the account and 
explained that these issues would need to be raised as a separate complaint with HSBC in 
the first instance.
HSBC didnt dispute my provisional decision. Miss P disagreed with the decision and, in 
summary, mostly repeated her earlier points. Miss P also explained that she had been 
advised by an investigator at the service that the complaint could only be made on behalf of 
B, and said that this was the capacity in which she was now complaining. Miss P also said 
she was aware she wasnt able to seek personal compensation for the matter.
I then outlined further provisional findings, in light of this new information. I explained that as 
Miss P had since said the complaint was being brought on behalf of B, it was one this 
service could consider, with B as the eligible complainant. However, as I alluded to in my 
original provisional findings, it was unlikely that the case would be upheld if it were brought 
by B. I further explained that this was because I considered the complaint to be about 
actions taken by the other director of B who isnt joined to the complaint. And, I thought it 
was likely that the other director would have a different and opposing opinion on the matter.
HSBC had no further comments in response to my additional provisional findings. 
Miss P responded and, in summary, pointed out that my provisional findings didnt state 
whether I thought HSBC had made an error or not and, without evidence to show it didnt 
make an error, the case ought to be upheld. 
Miss P further added that she wanted to see evidence which suggested that this service 
required all directors of a company to be involved in a complaint. Additionally, Miss P said 
the other director was aware of the complaint and had made no comment on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I havent changed the opinion I expressed in my most recent provisional 
findings. Ive explained my reasoning below. But before I do so, I want to say that I have 
taken on board all of the additional comments Miss P raised in response to both provisional 
findings.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Miss P says that this complaint has been brought on behalf of the legal entity which is the 
limited company  B. I must therefore be clear that I cant consider the personal losses of 
Miss P in this decision, unless it is attributable to the financial losses of B. 
Miss P has said the payments that were made have caused a loss to B. However, this isnt 
something I can definitively say as the individual who made the payments is also a director 
of B. And, this service doesnt have the investigative remit to decide whether these 
payments made by the other director were a definite loss to the company itself, based on the 
information that has been provided. With this in mind, whilst I acknowledge Miss Ps 
concerns relating to the mandate, I cant be sure that the payments that were made by the 
other director have caused a definitive loss to the company itself.
Furthermore, and importantly, whilst Miss P is able to bring the complaint on behalf of B as 
its representative, I have to consider that the subject matter of this complaint  whilst 
involving HSBCs actions  is fundamentally about the action taken by the other director of B 
(who was also likely representing B in making the transactions). And, the other director is 
also legally authorised to bring the complaint on behalf of B and make representations, or 
indeed choose not to bring the complaint to this service. I note Miss P says that the other 
director is aware of this complaint and has made no comment. However, on balance, Im still 
persuaded that the other director is likely to have a different and opposing position on the 
matter, due to the nature of the concerns that have been raised. 
Miss P has asked that I make a finding on whether HSBC has made an error by allowing the 
payments in question to be processed. However, I dont think its appropriate for me to make 
a finding on this point, nor do I think its relevant to the ultimate outcome here. I say this 
because I dont consider that I can fairly decide this knowing that the other director, who 
could bring the complaint to this service, would likely have an opposing opinion to Miss P. 
And, given that the other director isnt joined to this complaint, it follows that I cant fairly 
uphold this complaint. And I cant fairly say that HSBCs actions have caused B a loss. 
I note that Miss P has also raised more recent concerns that HSBC has refused to remove 
the block from the account to allow cheques to be processed. However, this is a separate 
matter to the initial complaint brought to this service. This will therefore need to be raised as 
a separate complaint with HSBC in the first instance, and I make no comment on this matter 
in this decision.
I realise the outcome Ive reached will be disappointing but, for the reasons outlined above, I 
dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman