DRN-2831934
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim made 
under their home insurance policy.
All references to Fairmead include its appointed agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B made a claim for accidental damage stains to their settee and carpet in 
September 2020. Fairmead accepted the claim and appointed a specialist restorer to 
assess the damage.
Fairmead then mistakenly cancelled Mr and Mrs Bs claim before reopening it and 
arranging for the specialist to attend the property. The specialist provided a report 
which concluded the carpet could likely be restored. Fairmead then looked to arrange 
for restorers to attend for both the settee and carpet.
Mr and Mrs B werent happy about this and complained to Fairmead. They said the 
settee hadnt been inspected and the report provided covered the carpet only.         
Mr and Mrs B added they didnt want to pay their policy excess just to have the 
settee and carpet cleaned.
Fairmead said it had investigated the matter with the specialist who said the settee 
could be successfully restored. It said it was entitled to attempt a repair of the 
damaged items under the policy terms and if this wasnt successful it would then 
consider alternative options. Fairmead acknowledged Mr and Mrs B had received a 
poor level of service during the claim and paid them £100 compensation.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint shouldnt be upheld 
because they found Fairmead were right to attempt a repair of the damaged settee 
and carpet under the terms of the policy. They found the policy excess had been 
charged correctly and said Fairmeads offer of compensation for the poor service was 
reasonable.
Mr and Mrs B dont agree. They say Fairmeads decision to attempt a clean of the 
settee was based on a report in which only the carpet was inspected. They want the 
settee to be replaced with something suitable or for compensation to be offered 
towards a new one.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for these reasons:
Mr and Mrs Bs main concern here is that the settee was never inspected before 
Fairmead decided to attempt a clean. And I can understand why they feel strongly 
about this. But in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that 
Fairmeads error or omission here led to an unfair outcome or settlement for             
Mr and Mrs B. And having considered everything Im not persuaded that it did. Ill 
explain why.
Mr and Mrs Bs policy contains a term which applies to this claim and states As long 
as the loss or damage is covered under your policywe will decide whether to settle 
your claim by: repairing; replacing; or by making a cash payment in respect of the 
damaged contents. We will repair or replace the contents where we can. I think 
that this shows that Fairmead have a right to attempt a clean or restore of the 
damaged items in line with this term.
Fairmead say they advised Mr and Mrs B on a call that both the carpet and settee 
would have an attempted clean. Mr and Mrs B say that call was unclear so they still 
assumed that only the carpet would be cleaned after the specialist visited  based on 
his report. 
Ive not listened to this call, but in any event I can see that once challenged Fairmead 
went back to the specialist to confirm their position on the settee. The evidence 
shows that the specialist said there was an 80% chance the settee could be cleaned 
successfully. This specialist did visit the property and had seen the settee visually, 
albeit without including it in their written report. So Im persuaded by the specialists 
comments here and Ive not seen anything firm to dispute their conclusions.
 
Therefore whilst I do understand and acknowledge Mr and Mrs B are upset that the 
settee didnt form part of the initial report, I think that once it was clear there was a 
reasonable chance of success of both the settee and carpet being cleaned it wasnt 
unreasonable for Fairmead to choose this option in line with the policy terms. And I 
dont think that any mistakes leading up to this outcome mean the settee should be 
replaced before this is done.
I can see Fairmead has already acknowledged it couldve handled the claim better. 
There does seem to have been some confusion about the status of the claim and 
later about whether one or both items were being cleaned. Having considered 
Fairmeads level of service overall, I find its offer of £100 compensation fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs B have said they now want to cancel the claim as they dont want to pay 
the excess for a clean. Fairmead has already said that if the clean isnt successful it 
will move on to consider other remedies under the policy. However if Mr and Mrs B 
choose to do this privately then I think this may likely remove Fairmeads liability for 
replacing either of the damaged items. Ultimately it will be Mr and Mrs Bs decision 
on how they wish to proceed here. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Fairmead Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman