DRN-2533935
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy that QIC Europe Ltd wont pay her insurance claim for theft in respect of
two gold bangles.  
What happened
 In or about May 2020 Ms A suffered a burglary of her home when a substantial number of
items of her jewellery were stolen. She made a claim to QIC who arranged for its jewellers to
value the stolen items. In respect of a pair of gold bangles its jewellers valued them at over
£4,000. It pointed out that when taking out the policy in 2016 Ms A was asked whether she
had any items worth over £2,000. She replied that she didnt. After the claim Ms A obtained
a valuation of the bangles for £2,948 for the pair. She said the bangles should be valued
separately and they werent individually worth over £2,000 each.
QIC didnt accept Ms As argument and said that she had made a claim for the set and the
jewellers (including her jewellers) had valued them as a set. So it treated this as one item. It
explained that had Ms A declared the item when applying for the insurance it would have
placed a condition requiring her to have the item professionally valued every three years.
It said that before the claim Ms A hadnt had the bangles valued since she acquired them in 
1991. So it said it wouldnt pay the claim in respect of the bangles. Ms A says she didnt 
claim I acquire the bangles until 2018.
On referral to this service our investigator thought that her bangles could be dealt with and
valued separately. As Ms A had a valuation which potentially valued each bangle at less
than £2,000 he proposed that QIC agree an independent valuer with Ms A. If this valued
each bangle at less than £2,000 QIC should deal with the claim accordingly.
QIC didnt agree - it said the bangles should be regarded as a set and that its jewellers
valuation could be relied on as they are specialists.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings:
In my view the bangles are a set. Ms A made a claim for them as a pair of bangles, and her
jeweller valued them as a pair. Looking at the photo Ms A has provided, it is a photo of her
wearing both bangles together. They both have a matching intricate design. If only one had
been lost or stolen I would have expected QIC to match the remaining bangle. I think the
bangles have always been regarded as a pair and it would be an artificial distinction to
separate them to get within the policy limit for valuables.
Having said that the policy requires the applicant to say what the value is. And although
QICs jeweller gave a professional specialist valuation, Ms A also obtained a valuation which
was for much less. This shows there can be a difference of opinion. But Ms As valuation of
the pair of bangles still comes to more than £2,000, so the set is still valued in excess of the
limit for non-specified valuables.
When Ms A took the policy out she was asked Do you have any valuables or personal items
worth over £2,000 each (excluding bicycles)? Ms A replied No. When the policy renewed
she was sent a list of the questions and answers she had given when taking out the policy
and asked to check that the information was correct and up to date. I think Ms A was aware
of the policy limit for unspecified valuables.
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 sets out what the
insurer is entitled to do when the consumer makes a qualifying misrepresentation when
taking out or renewing a policy. This is essentially where the consumer breaches their duty
to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. This is based on what the insurer
would have done if the consumer had complied with the duty. If the insurer would have
applied different terms its entitled to act as though those terms applied.
So here, QIC says that if Ms A had disclosed that she had valuables in excess of £2,000 it
would have applied the following endorsement:
If you make claim for any watch or item of jewellery shown on the Schedule with a
replacement value of £2,000 or more, you must provide a professional UK valuation from
within the last three years.
We will not pay your claim or the amount of the claim may be reduced if you do not provide
the proof we ask for.
I note that QIC has excluded the bangles from the claims settlement as they breach the
policy limit and no valuation was available. I dont think thats reasonable. The bangles were
stolen so the fact of there being no valuation has no bearing on the claim. I think there was a
genuine, accepted loss here. In my view the fair result would be for QIC to allow £2,000 in
respect of the bangles. 
In conclusion I think the bangles were a set and even by Ms As jewellers valuation were
worth more than £2,000.
QIC accepted my provisional findings and on that basis is prepared to pay that part of the 
claim, if Ms A accepts.
Ms A also accepted my provisional findings, apart from clarifying the date she acquired the 
bangles.
As both parties accepted them, my provisional findings are now final and form part of this 
final decision.
Putting things right
QIC should accept the bangles as part of the claim but limited to a settlement of £2,000, and 
subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.  
My final decision
 I uphold the complaint and require QIC Europe Ltd to act in accordance with what Ive said 
under Putting things right above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman