DRN-3653185
The complaint
Mr R says American Express Services Europe Limited, has treated him unfairly in relation to 
a transaction on his credit card which paid for an annual travel ticket.
What happened
In summary in September 2019 Mr R used his American Express Services Europe Limited 
(AESEL for short) credit card to pay for an annual season ticket covering his commute using 
two rail services and a ferry service. He paid over £7100 for the ticket. Mr R points to 
extensive delays in the services and missed connections between the services also causing 
significant delays over prolonged period. Mr R also points to not being able to use the 
season ticket due to the arrival of the Pandemic and the consequent lockdown. He also 
pointed to an incident on a train journey when he says his shirt was damaged. He also said 
that the issues with repeated delays and getting a resolution had impacted his mental health 
substantially and that hed had to change jobs (and take a pay cut) in order to get away from 
the issues with the delays suffered on travelling to work. Mr R purchased the ticket from Firm 
S and complained to it. Eventually he was successful in recouping some funds but 
significantly short of what he felt Firm S should pay. So during complaining to Firm S, he 
also took his claim to AESEL.
AESEL considered the matter and said to Mr R that it wouldnt be refunding him in its letter 
of October 2020. It said Mr R hadnt continued to liaise with Firm S when it was willing to 
consider his claim. It argued that the National Conditions of Travel nor his ticket provided 
any guarantees that services would run on time. It also said Firm S had said it would 
consider his claim if Mr R could provide the times of the trains he generally used so that it 
could assess the extent of the delays and any appropriate levels of compensation. AESEL 
said in relation to his shirt that Firm S was willing to compensate Mr R the value of the shirt 
on the submission of supporting evidence.
AESEL also said at that time with regard to the unused element of the ticket due to the 
Pandemic that Firm S had confirmed Mr R had not contacted it about this and there was a 
process in place for such claims. And it also explained then that Firm S had told it that it 
hadnt received a claim regarding the impact on Mr Rs mental health but if Mr R wanted to 
make such a claim it could do so to Firm S at an address AESEL provided.
In November 2020 Firm S write to Mr R explaining it is sending him a cheque for £600 in 
regard to his complaint to it but not clearly stating to which part of his claim or which delays it 
was attributable to. Firm S also paid him £40 for his torn shirt. And somewhat eventually it 
refunded him a pro rata refund of £2,654.00 for the time he couldnt use the ticket due to the 
Pandemic.
Our Investigator considered all of this and felt AESEL didnt have to do any more having 
considered the claim made to it by Mr R, all things considered. Mr R didnt agree, so this 
complaint came to me for a decision. 
In July I issued a provisional decision explaining why I didnt think this complaint should be 
upheld. Mr R responded with comments. AESEL chose not to respond within the time limit 
set out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has made a number of comments in response to my provisional decision. I have 
considered them all. Some of these were dealt with in my provisional decision so I will not 
repeat myself in the interests of brevity and clarity. The comments Mr R makes that I think 
need further attention will be interlaced into my rationale below which is the key arguments 
made in my provisional decision. But in summary Im not persuaded to change my position 
as I explained previously.
I should add here that Mr R contends my background wasnt an accurate reflection of why 
the complaint was made. Ive considered his comments and added the words in summary 
and some clarifying additions about what was said when which I think deals with the nub of 
his comments here. Im not persuaded anything in my background is factually inaccurate and 
I note that Mr R doesnt point out anything specific in those comments that he says are 
inaccurate. It seems to me that he would have described things differently. That might well 
be the case, but it is for me to set out my decision as I see fit.
The background section of my decision is for the purposes of setting out what happened to 
illustrate the broad nature of the complaint in hand. It is not meant to be an entire 
explanation of every event in this long running dispute. To be such would be contrary to our 
stated aims of being a quick and informal dispute resolution service.
Mr R used his AESEL credit card to pay Firm S. This means AESEL has, if certain criteria 
are met, certain responsibilities to Mr R which arise from the relevant law, specifically, 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In summary Section 75 has the 
effect of allowing Mr R to hold AESEL liable for breaches of contract, or misrepresentations 
made in relation to the agreement made between him and the Supplier (Firm S). In other 
words a like claim against AESEL to that against the supplier (Firm S). And as a like claim 
although AESEL has to treat Mr R fairly in its consideration of the claim and to look into the 
matter, Mr R also does have to put forward arguments and supporting evidence to 
demonstrate the breach or misrepresentation he contends happened.
AESELs credit card, which was used here, operates within a card network. And this network 
has rules which includes giving AESEL an avenue for card transactions to be disputed with 
Merchants, namely through the Chargeback process.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about AESEL and whether it did 
what it should have done and whether it treated Mr R fairly. This decision isnt about Firm S 
or the Ferry provider, neither of which are parties to this decision and neither of which are 
within this services remit for complaints regarding Chargeback and S75. 
So for Mr Rs complaint to be successful I have to be persuaded that AESEL has treated Mr 
R unfairly in its consideration of his dispute with Firm S when it considered it. Rather than 
whether Mr R feels hes lost out as a consequence of what Firm S did. I hope this important 
distinction is clear. Ive considered Mr Rs comments in light of my provisional decision and 
these comments focus almost entirely on Firm S. Again I draw Mr Rs attention to the 
comments Ive made in this paragraph regarding him having to persuade that AESEL treated 
him unfairly. Lastly I should add that this decision is regarding how AESEL considered his dispute when it considered it. Under Section 75 CCA there are no time limits to bringing a 
claim or making a new claim about the same issues with new evidence. So there is nothing 
to prevent Mr R bringing his claim to AESEL again with new evidence in future although Mr 
R should be aware there is other time barring legislation which AESEL might rely upon in 
future were Mr R to bring such a claim. But this decision is about how AESEL dealt with the 
dispute which Mr R raised to it.
Mr R has responded to my provisional decision by saying the following.
My understanding and the advice that I have been given is that AESEL are jointly liable with 
Firm S for the services provided or not provided in this case and this is not just a complaint 
about how AESEL dealt with my complaint. As I have raised with the Ombudsman a number 
of times, my expectation was always that AESEL would fairly and impartially investigate my 
complain, but instead made comments like the vendors position is our position on a 
number of occasions.
The advice Mr R says he has been given regarding AESEL being jointly liable is erroneous. 
Section 75 of the CCA enables Mr R to bring a like claim to AESEL as to that he has 
against Firm S. This is very different to being jointly liable. AESEL is required to consider the 
like claim fairly and to ensure it understands Mr Rs claim against it. And in doing so it 
should then redress the matter if breach of contract or material misrepresentation are made 
out. It doesnt have to do anything unless Mr R has shown to it that the supplier (Firm S) 
here has breached the contract or materially misrepresented the matter to him. The onus is 
on Mr R making out his like claim to AESEL. All it has to do is to consider that claim (and 
chargeback) fairly. So Mr Rs expectation here isnt in line with AESELs obligations. And in 
any event I can see that AESEL has liaised with Firm S on this matter to establish if Mr Rs 
claim has merit. It doesnt have to launch a broader investigation into how Firm S operated 
its services or its broader commercial practices. It just has to fairly consider Mr Rs claim 
under S75 (and its position regarding chargeback). So I hope that the responsibilities here 
on AESEL are significantly less onerous than Mr Rs expectations of how it would or should 
act. And I dont dispute that AESEL in its communications with Mr R could have explained 
itself better, but this doesnt necessarily mean its treated him unfairly in the round.
This has been a long running dispute. Mr R and AESEL have made many arguments 
throughout this matter. I have considered them all. However for the sake of clarity and to 
avoid repetition I shall only address the key arguments made before and after my provisional 
decision as I see them.
could AESEL challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr R 
does here, AESEL can attempt to go through the Chargeback process. Mr R doesnt dispute 
that he used him AESEL credit card here. Nor does he dispute the amount, date, or any 
other details about the transaction itself. So I dont think AESEL couldve challenged the 
payment on the basis Mr R didnt properly authorise the transaction, given what Ive just set 
out.
I should add that Chargeback isnt a right for consumers although I do consider it good 
practice. I should also note that where firms pursue chargebacks the final decision rests with 
the card network and not the firm raising the chargeback. So AESEL isnt ultimately 
responsible for the result of whether a chargeback is successful or not.
Having considered the matter and the network rules available here Im not persuaded that a 
chargeback, if raised, would have been successful, largely for the same reasons as Im 
about to explain under regarding Mr Rs claim under Section 75. Mr R argues that the system for logging such information that Firm S used didnt work. But 
that doesnt negate the fact that Firm S has said it would consider the matter if Mr R supplied 
it with his arguments and evidence. And I dont think AESEL has treated Mr R unfairly by 
pointing to these comments that Firm S has made to it.
I should also add that there are strict time limits within the network rules for raising such 
chargebacks and Im not persuaded Mr R was in time in relation to these either when he 
took the matter up with AESEL. So all in all I dont think a chargeback would have been 
successful. So I dont think AESEL has to do anymore under the chargeback rules.
Mr R has said in response to my provisional position on this point:
I am actually very disappointed with this comment as anyone reading the correspondence 
would see that I recorded the delays on a daily basis and the reason for this as I have 
explained is that (Firm S Repay System) just did not work in this instance, so I had no 
alternative but to try to recover my losses another way, but for the avoidance of doubt all 
delays were recorded well within the required timescales.
As explained the Chargeback process has strict time limits and Im not persuaded that Mr R 
met these in bringing his claim to AESEL (not Firm S as Mr R seems to suggest). And 
whether Mr R did or did not log details of delays on this Firm S system (which he says didnt 
work) doesnt change the fact that in bringing his dispute to AESEL there is little persuasive 
evidence that he put to AESEL evidence showing which services on which days were 
delayed or cancelled within the time limits set out in the chargeback rules. And 
notwithstanding that Mr R disputes providing the evidence to AESEL, even if hed shown it 
when the trains were delayed or cancelled this doesnt take away from the fact that the 
contracts that Mr R agreed here make clear that such services timely running are not 
guaranteed or that they qualify as a breach of contract as explained in my provisional 
decision. So in any event Im not persuaded a chargeback would have been successful, so I 
dont think AESEL has anything more to do here.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these limits I 
think on balance that Mr Rs claim meets the financial limits criteria. Ive also considered the 
requirement for the appropriate relationship set out in the CCA (Debtor, Creditor, Supplier). 
And I think that is in place also. So the underlying criteria for a successful claim are in place 
to consider whether AESEL should be liable for Mr Rs under a like claim as Firm S. 
There are in essence four areas of Mr Rs claim:
Damages relating to shirt and cut finger
Breach of contract in relation to effective refunds due to the Pandemic lockdown
Breach of contract in relation to delays and cancellations of services covered by Mr Rs ticket 
and not processing refunds correctly
Personal injury mental health issues relating to the delays and cancellations of services and 
consequential handling thereof.
It appears that in relation to the first two areas of claim Mr R has already had compensation 
from Firm S. Hes had his shirt cost refunded and had a large refund which appears to be in 
relation to the period when he couldnt use the ticket due to the pandemic. I can also see that he was asked about further evidence to his cut finger, but I can appreciate that these 
areas arent the main focus of his complaint. 
I appreciate Mr R makes comments about how the refund was processed and the customer 
experience he had whilst trying to navigate Firm S processes here. But AESEL is only 
responsible for breaches and material misrepresentations by Firm S and isnt responsible for 
Firm S customer service. So considering the amounts received on those two issues and 
where Mr R has argued since those times, particularly in his response to the assessment of 
our investigator, I think it fair for me to decide that AESEL has nothing further to do in regard 
these two issues.
Turning to the delays and cancellations of services and the damages Mr R says hes 
suffered as a consequence, having considered what has happened here Im not persuaded 
AESEL has treated Mr R unfairly in its consideration of the S75 claim he made to it. My 
reasons are as follows.
Firstly it is of note that in both the carriage rules and ferry rules there are no guarantees of 
services running to time. Mr R says these firms have an obligation to run on time. However 
the conditions and contracts in place dont support this. There are no guarantees that 
services will run on time. And these agreements make clear that the relevant services 
providers will endeavour to run on time but there isnt a breach of contract if they do not, as 
per the wording of the contracts. And just because compensation may be paid it doesnt 
necessarily follow that there has been a breach of contract. And AESEL can only be held 
responsible where there is a breach of contract or material misrepresentation. It is not 
responsible for failings of Firm S outside of these two areas for issues such as customer 
service for example.
I note Mr R, in response to my provisional decision, doesnt point to the contracts in place 
themselves or the terms therein to argue my position is wrong. He doesnt acknowledge the 
correctness of my position here either, but I think the wording of these contracts in this 
regard is at the heart of this entire dispute and I consider these terms persuasive and a key 
consideration to this complaint.
Instead Mr R makes broader arguments about other elements which he considers should be 
part of the contract such as the timetables. Mr R points to a letter sent to Firm S to support 
his position. He quotes the following:
The ability to be able to plan or make a journey with a reasonable degree of assurance is a 
requirement of Condition 4 of (Firm S) 's Passenger License and GB Statement of National 
Regulatory Provisions: Passenger (SNRPs). The provision of information that affects 
consumers purchasing decisions such as the provision of inaccurate or false information or 
the omission of material information may also fall within the scope of the Consumer 
Protection Regulations.
But I dont think this makes a difference here for a number of reasons which I shall now 
explain. Firstly for this to make a difference Mr R would need to show that prior to 
purchasing his ticket Firm S knew the timetables they issued were inaccurate or false. Mr R 
hasnt provided any persuasive evidence showing this to be the case. He points to what he 
says is poor performance and concludes that Firm S must have known beforehand. But that 
isnt persuasive to me. Furthermore this quote doesnt take into account the nature of Mr Rs 
journey requiring changes of mode of transport and the relevant contractual considerations. 
Mr R says this quote shows that the Consumer Rights Act does apply. I dont agree. And this 
is because firstly it is my decision here on whether it does or doesnt apply in relation to Mr 
R, his particular circumstances, and his complaint here and secondly and importantly I note the presence of the word may in what Mr R has quoted. And as it may it could clearly also 
be the case it may not.
Secondly I note from the national rail conditions of travel rules (applicable between 4th 
December 2019 to February 2022) that there is no guarantee of compensation in those 
conditions as set out in section 32.1 you may be entitled to claim money back from the 
appropriate train company. It then sets out different ways of doing that. But it also notes that 
claims made under the industry arrangements claims only up to the cost of the ticket can be 
made, other than in exceptional circumstances where train companies may consider claims 
for other losses at its sole discretion. Section 33.1 sets out that after the delayed journey 
travellers must make their claim to the train company within 28 days. Mr R says there were 
many instances of delays here but for AESEL to be held responsible there needs to be a 
like claim and these conditions set out how Mr R was to make such claims for delays. But 
such compensation for delays doesnt demonstrate breach of contract per the terms of the 
contract Mr R agreed to when purchasing the ticket. And in response to my position Mr R 
doesnt persuasively challenge my reading of these rules or the lack of guarantees therein.
Im not persuaded Ive seen sufficient evidence of Mr R setting out which trains were delayed 
and by how long to AESEL. And I note that AESEL has pointed to the ticket seller making 
clear it was happy to consider his claim if he set out which trains and when were delayed. Mr 
R strongly contends that such information was provided to AESEL. He says this information 
was provided to Firm S through its system (which he also says didnt work). For the sake of 
argument however I should state that even if Mr R had provided an all-encompassing 
detailed breakdown of which trains were delayed or cancelled on each specific day this still 
wouldnt necessarily mean that his complaint against AESEL should be upheld. And this is 
key in this dispute. This is because such delays dont demonstrate breach of contract for the 
reasons Ive already given. And in addition it would be unfair for AESEL to have to 
compensate Mr R for train journeys which werent provided for reasons outside of Firm Ss 
control which under the contract it didnt have to compensate for. If that were the case then 
that would be outside of a like claim.
I also note that section 4.4 of these conditions sets out that some tickets (such as Mr Rs 
ticket) entitle services from other parties and it says Where this is the case your Ticket is 
also evidence of a contract between you and that other party, whose own conditions will 
apply when using their services. Ive considered the available ferry services terms and 
conditions (which I consider likely to reflect the terms at the time) and note that there is no 
guarantee of running on time and that these terms also allow for changes in times of sailings 
and indeed cancellations. It also goes on to say it isnt responsible for consequential losses 
other than death or personal injury. So it seems clear that any train journey connection 
missed due to the late arrival or cancellation of the ferry wouldnt be covered under the terms 
and conditions Mr R agreed. And so it would seem likely that at least some of the delays Mr 
R points to having suffered were due to ferry issues, which consequently wouldnt be 
covered. 
In response to my provisional decision Mr R says that the Ferry services worked well. 
Nevertheless any trains missed due to sea conditions wouldnt be covered. Im not 
persuaded that during the course of the tickets validity such ferry delays or cancellations 
didnt impact Mr Rs journey.
Mr R also says that AESEL does have a complete list of when trains were delayed or 
cancelled. Whether this is the case or not the contract he agreed when purchasing the 
tickets makes clear that any such service alterations/disruptions doesnt constitute a breach 
of contract. And AESEL can only be held liable when such a breach is made out.Mr R also points to the Consumer Rights Act here as he says it implies into the contract 
certain terms. However I note that in February 2020 in one of his emails he notes he has to 
keep the job hes employed in due to family circumstances. In August 2021 he tells this 
service that hes resigned from his job to avoid having to travel on the route to work that his 
ticket covered. So it seems clear to me that this season ticket was purchased for his travel to 
and from work. And accordingly the Consumer Rights Act doesnt apply in Mr Rs case. This 
is because for Mr R to gain any protection under this Act hed have to meet the definition of 
consumer within the Act. This is defined as an individual acting for purposes that are 
wholly or mainly outside that individuals trade, business, craft or profession. As this ticket 
was largely if not wholly for commuting for work purposes on this route containing a number 
of changes then Im satisfied on balance that Mr R in this context and in these particular 
circumstances doesnt meet the definition of consumer and hence doesnt get protection 
under the Consumer Rights Act in relation to this complaint about AESEL. It is of note that 
this particular ticket covered a particularly unique journey comprising of different modes of 
transport and connections and wasnt a typical commuting journey. And Mr R hasnt 
persuasively contended that he used this route for non-work purposes after seeing my 
position on this in my provisional decision. And thus the terms Mr R seeks to imply into the 
contracts cannot be fairly implied into the contract in relation to AESEL and thus AESEL 
cannot be held to account for any such terms.
After my provisional decision Mr R argues against this point vehemently and I can appreciate 
why he wouldnt be happy with this conclusion. But nevertheless he hasnt persuaded me 
that my position on this matter is incorrect. Within the CRA there is an explanatory note in 
relation to this Section of the Act and the definition therein. This explanatory note (Section 2 
subsection 36) makes clear that the usage of the good or service in question is the key 
consideration here. It gives examples of a kettle and a printer and their respective usage in 
relation the trade or profession in question. Ive considered Mr Rs arguments here, but I am 
obliged to consider the law in the decisions I make. And considering Mr Rs own comments 
about the purpose of the ticket (to travel to work) and no persuasive evidence showing that 
he used the ticket substantially for non-work purposes, Im not persuaded to change my 
position in these specific circumstances considering the evidence and the explanatory note 
within the CRA. I dont think I can differentiate this away considering the unusual and 
particular circumstances here. I should add that AESEL might consider that Mr R isnt an 
eligible complainant for much the same reasons. But as Im not upholding this complaint I 
dont think I need to give this any further consideration at this time as it doesnt materially 
impact my conclusions.
Mr R points to the rolling stock used in the provision of his service and says it was 
substandard. But just because Mr R points to these train types it doesnt follow that the 
presence of these types of trains either demonstrates that Mr R should be compensated by 
AESEL or that it negates the issue of service issues not amounting to breaches of contract. 
And although Mr R points to poor customer service by Firm S in dealing with him, this 
doesnt negate the need for him to make a like claim against AESEL by setting out his claim 
in the required manner or within the required processes. So even though Mr R points to 
comments made by Firm S regarding the rolling stock used this doesnt waive the need for 
him to properly set out the claim and get over the issue of such issues not amounting to 
breaches of contract. And I note that AESEL pointed to Firm Ss willingness to consider his 
claims after he took his complaint to AESEL, but he doesnt appear to have done so. And 
whether or not he did provide the evidence he argues so vehemently that he did, he still 
hasnt shown that Firm S breached the contract he had with it. So I dont think AESEL has 
treated him unfairly in that regard.
Mr R points to emails that he says AESEL lost in this dispute. However I can see Mr R has 
said in his correspondence with it that he can re-issue the same to it so it would appear that Mr R sensibly kept copies. But this does mean that his ability to make his claim hasnt 
been negated by AESEL losing such documents. So although Mr R considers this a very 
serious failure, Im not persuaded this has had a substantial impact upon his position other 
than to some degree inconvenient and annoying. I can see AESEL applied a payment of £50 
to Mr Rs account in relation to the emails sent. In light of what happened here I think this a 
reasonable solution to this particular issue.
Id now like to address directly one of Mr Rs key original arguments. Accordingly Ill quote it 
for utmost clarity. Mr R has said I believe that there is a clear and demonstrable breach of 
contract by (Firm S/AESEL) as if I have an explicit right to claim compensation if my journey 
is delayed against the published timetables then it follows that the train company in breach 
of contract if they do not keep to the timetables and must pay compensation.
This argument isnt supported by the facts here, because although Mr R is correct in his 
assertion he has a process in which he can claim compensation for delays it doesnt follow 
necessarily there is a breach of contract that has been demonstrated. This is because the 
contracts in play here make clear that trains being delayed or cancelled doesnt constitute 
breach of contract. He has a ticket which enables him to travel. It doesnt not guarantee 
services will be on time or not cancelled. And parts of his journey (particularly the ferry 
crossing) have their own terms which explicitly make clear that there is no responsibility for 
the consequences of delays or cancellations which would include such issues such as 
connecting services. Accordingly there is no breach of contract here and thus AESEL hasnt 
treated him unfairly by relying on this and so it doesnt have to compensate for delays or 
cancellations suffered.
Mr R notes that he hasnt had any compensation in relation to his changing job to a role 
which doesnt require travelling on the routes in question. AESEL can only be held 
responsible for losses if they directly flow from either a breach of contract or material 
misrepresentations. Im not persuaded these have been made out here. And I think it more 
likely that any loss of income here was due to the decisions Mr R took here about his 
employment. So it wouldnt be fair for AESEL to bear such losses.
Mr R points to government guidance which comments on the rights of consumers in such 
cases. But as Ive explained bearing in mind the specific circumstances here Mr R doesnt 
meet the definition of consumer here, so notwithstanding that he hasnt made out his claim 
properly or got passed the contract terms. And I also dont think it fair on AESEL to apply the 
Consumer Rights Act here as Mr R doesnt meet the criteria for the reasons given.
Im very sorry to hear about Mr Rs mental health issues and I hope that he gets the support 
required. For AESEL to held responsible for such issues there would need to be two criteria 
demonstrated. Firstly that there was breach of contract or material misrepresentation by Firm 
S which AESEL should be responsible for. Ive decided that no such breaches or material 
misrepresentations have been made out. So Mr Rs claim for such damage falls at the first 
hurdle to my mind. The second criteria which would have to be established is that these 
mental health issues were demonstrably caused by any such breach. Ive seen no 
persuasive evidence which shows this other than Mr Rs comments about it. Ive seen no 
medical reports or similar evidence showing there was direct causation here. So Im think 
that AESEL has done nothing wrong by not compensating this considering neither criteria 
required here have been met and both need to be met for AESEL to be responsible.
I shall address some other key points here.
Firstly it should be remembered that overarching all of the arguments above is the 
substantial issue of the pandemic and its consequences on all aspects of daily life including 
the running of train and ferry services. Mr R bought his annual ticket in September 2019. By April 2020 substantial restrictions on businesses and individuals were in place which had 
substantial ramifications for the running of such services when they were allowed to run. Mr 
R largely points to the rolling stock for the cause of the delays he refers to. Im not 
persuaded hes sufficiently delineated between pandemic issues causing disruption to train 
services (when allowed to run) and other issues. And either way this doesnt negate the 
terms of the contracts in place which state that such delays do not constitute breaches of 
contract. 
In respect of that letter to which Mr R points I make a couple of observations. Firstly it is 
dated October 2020 and is clearly in relation to the pandemic and the publishing of 
timetables then. Mr R had purchased his ticket the previous year well before the pandemic 
had any impact on travel. Secondly as the letter states it notes it can be difficult to keep 
information accurate so there is acceptance that at the time the operation of services was 
challenging. Thirdly this letter is written to train companies broadly (not just Firm S here) and 
is in the context of their licence to run train services, setting out principles of providing 
information in light of the disruption caused by the pandemic. Lastly I note the comment 
within the letter that consumer protection (from unfair trading) regulations 2008 also prohibit 
unfair and misleading commercial practices. Mr R points to train delays and rolling stock 
issues but this falls significantly short of demonstrating on balance of probabilities such 
unfair or misleading commercial practices were in place here when considered in light of 
both the pandemic and the contracts in place which make clear that any delays or 
cancellations do not constitute breach of contract. And as per my earlier findings Im not 
satisfied Mr R is a consumer. In light of all of this, Im not persuaded this letter persuades 
me to alter my position on not upholding this complaint about AESEL.
Mr R has also supplied a copy of his local countys website guidance with regard to rail travel 
and passenger rights in this regard. I have considered this, and I should state that this is a 
very general, and lacking in any real detail, broad summation of some of the legal position 
and is clearly designed for guidance for passengers. It clearly isnt a comprehensive 
explanation of all of the relevant law here and falls a long way short of being so. It goes on to 
give general guidance, but this doesnt discuss or dispute the definition of consumer as set 
out in the CRA as Ive described. Nor is drafted in relation to S75 of the CCA and claims 
against credit providers such as is the case here. So I dont think it alters my position on how 
AESEL acted and whether this complaint should be upheld or not and I dont consider it 
particularly key to this decision.
Mr R points to a letter from the train licence holder about delays in Firm S processes in 
paying compensation. I dont think this is in dispute, but this doesnt persuade me AESEL 
should be liable here for all the reasons already provided.
Mr R points to a government paper in relation to train travel and the CRA. It outlines how 
consumers should be treated in relation to train travel. But as Ive explained Im not 
persuaded Mr R should be treated as a consumer under the CRA for the reasons given in 
this decision. I should also note this paper was issued almost a year before the pandemic 
led to substantial restrictions on businesses and individuals. And it doesnt consider in detail 
the position of S75 claims and doesnt demonstrate how AESEL have treated Mr R unfairly.
Accordingly and in summary having considered everything Mr R has said and addressed the 
key arguments he has made as I see them. On balance Im not persuaded Mr Rs complaint 
should succeed. I dont think it has been made out that AESEL treated Mr R unfairly in 
consideration of this dispute. So I think AESEL has nothing further to do.
For Mr R to be successful in his complaint about AESEL I have to be persuaded AESEL has 
treated him unfairly in its consideration of his claim. Im not persuaded it has. And as per my 
comments earlier I should make clear that doesnt mean I think Firm S has excelled itself because I cannot make findings about Firm S here. Only whether AESEL has fairly 
considered Chargeback and Mr Rs S75 claim.
I appreciate this isnt the decision Mr R wishes to read. And he is free to not accept it and to 
continue his dispute with either AESEL or Firm S through other avenues if he sees fit. 
Nevertheless this decision brings to a conclusion Mr Rs dispute with AESEL on this matter 
at this service.
My final decision
It is my decision to not uphold Mr Rs complaint about American Express Services Europe 
Limited. It has nothing further to do in this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman