DRN-2929991
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct rejected his Section 75 claim.  
What happened
In July 2016 Mr B entered into a contract with a third-party company authorising then to act 
on his behalf to surrender his ownership of a timeshare. Mr B paid £7914 to the company, 
some of which was paid using his First Direct credit card. 
The company didnt take any action on Mr Bs behalf, so he contacted HSBC to make a 
section 75 claim. HSBC declined the claim and said Mr B hadnt provided evidence to show 
that the timeshare was still in his name at the time when his contract with the company 
ended.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint. In that decision, I explained why I 
thought the evidence provided by Mr B was sufficient to show that the timeshare was still in 
his name when the contact with the company ended. I referred to the letter about 
outstanding management charges which Mr B had received from the timeshare company 
and said I didnt think there would be outstanding charges if Mr B wasnt still the owner of the 
timeshare. I didnt think there was any evidence to suggest that Mr B had surrendered the 
timeshare, so it followed that he still owned it. I decided that HSBC should settle the section 
75 claim in the sum of £7914.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence of arguments they wished to make 
before I finally determined the matter.
Mr B said he agreed with my decision. HSBC didnt respond to my provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Mr B has said that he agrees with my provisional decision, and because HSBC 
hasnt replied, I see no reason to  reach different conclusions from the ones I set out in my 
provisional decision.   
Putting things right
To put things right, HSBC should settle the section 75 claim and pay Mr B the sum of £7914.  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct 
must pay the sum of £7914 to Mr B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman