DRN-2817788
The complaint
Miss N complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, closed her credit card
account.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 29 April 2021. I was thinking of coming to a 
different outcome to our investigator, and so I wanted to give both parties the chance to 
respond to my provisional decision with any additional information they wanted me to 
consider. I have copied my provisional decision below, which forms part of this final decision.
In February 2020, Miss N says she called Halifax to ask about charges she might incur on 
her credit card account if she used her card abroad. Initially, Miss N says that she was told 
she wouldnt be charged. She says she called back later in the month to ask again, but when 
she gave the representative her card details, they couldnt find her account and she was told 
her account didnt exist.
Miss N says she went to branch to resolve the matter, but once she got to branch, she was 
then told to call the Credit Card Team again. After having done this, she found her credit
card account had been closed in June 2018. Miss N says that Halifax told her it couldnt
reopen her account, nor could it tell her why her account had been closed. She says that she
wasnt ever told that her account had been closed, and she is now left without a credit card.
Miss N says this left her without a credit card when she went abroad  she wasnt able to
use it to book a hotel room and so she had to pay in cash, which left her short of money. She
also says her circumstances have now changed, and she needs a card for day-to-day living
expenses. Miss N tried to apply for a new Halifax credit card, but when she completed the
soft search, she was told the application would likely decline.
To put things right, Miss N says she wants Halifax to give her a new credit card account with
the same £1,600 limit as before  without this affecting her credit score.
When Miss N complained to Halifax, it upheld her complaint and paid her a total of £125. In
its final response, it said it couldnt find any evidence to suggest why the account was
closed, or that it had notified her of the account closure. But is said that it couldnt reopen the
account given the time that had now passed.
Our investigator looked into things for Miss N. She upheld the complaint because she wasnt
persuaded that Halifax had notified Miss N that her account would be closed if she didnt use
it. The investigator said that Halifax should pay Miss N an additional £100 to compensate
her.
Miss N didnt agree with our investigators view. She says that she needed the credit card for
her trip, and she now needs it because she has lost her job. She says that if Halifax wont
reinstate her account, then it should pay her £1,600 in compensation because this is the
amount, she has lost out through not having the card.
Halifax also responded to our investigators view to say it didnt agree. It says that while it
hasnt been able to provide a copy of the actual letter it sent to Miss N about the potential
account closure, it has sent us a copy of a sample letter and evidence to show that it was
sent. It also referred to part of its terms and conditions which shows that it can close an
account by giving notice.
Because neither party agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on
the matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I dont intend to uphold Miss Ns complaint. I appreciate this
will come as a disappointment to Miss N, but I will explain my reasons for this below.
Halifax has provided this service with evidence to show that Miss Ns account was part of a
campaign it has called use it or lose it. This campaign targeted customers who didnt use
their accounts  the idea was that if the customer still wanted the account to remain open,
then they would need to start to use the account or contact Halifax to let it know they still
wanted the account to remain open. It isnt unusual for businesses to run campaigns similar
to this  and most business wont keep an account open indefinitely  especially if it isnt
being used. And I can see Miss N had a zero balance on the account for several years
before Halifax included her as part of its campaign.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Miss Ns account, to see what these say about
account closure, they say:
If we end the agreement, we will normally give you at least two months notice but may end
it immediately in exceptional circumstances
This is a fairly standard term applicable to most credit card accounts  I dont find this to be
unfair or unreasonable. So, Halifax can end the agreement it had with Miss N at any time 
as long as it gave her notice.
Based on the internal screenshots Ive seen from Halifax, I can see Miss Ns account formed
part of the campaign in March 2018. Her account was then closed in June 2018 because
she didnt use it.
Ive seen a copy of a sample letter Halifax says it would have sent to Miss N in March 2018.
It says, Weve noticed that you havent used your Halifax credit card for a while and you
have a zero balance in your account. We want to let you know that well close your card if
you dont use it or contact us by <date>. It then goes on to say Theres no need to contact
us if you no longer want your card. Well always give you two months notice before we close
your account, so if you dont use your card or contact us by <date>, well end your credit
agreement, remove your access to credit and close your account shortly afterwards.
Halifax doesnt have a copy of the actual letter it says it sent to Miss N  it says it wasnt
required to keep a copy of this letter on file. But given that Ive seen evidence that Miss Ns
account formed part of the use it or lose it campaign in March 2018, I think it likely that the
sample letter it sent me is the same or similar to the one it says it would have sent to Miss N.
But Miss N says she didnt receive the letter  so she didnt know the account would beclosed if she didnt use it or let Halifax know that she wanted to keep it open. Ive thought
carefully about this point  and Ive looked at all the evidence to decide what I think it most
likely to have happened. Halifax has sent in a copy of its internal screenshot that shows Miss
Ns account was on the database for the campaign  and it says that it was this system that
was used to generate the letters. It has also sent me a screenshot to show the address it
held on file for Miss N  which matches the address she has given this service.
On balance, I think its more likely that a letter was sent to Miss N to let her know her account
would close if she didnt use it. The system Halifax used automatically generated the letter
for customers who formed part of the campaign, and so I dont see any reason why Miss N
wouldnt have been sent the letter. And because the address details Halifax hold for Miss N
appear to be correct, I dont see any reason why the letter wouldnt have been received.
I dont think it was unfair of Halifax to have included Miss N as part of the use it or lose it
campaign, given that her account hadnt been used for some time. Im persuaded that
Halifax sent her a letter notifying her it would close her account unless she let them know
she still wanted it or used it  and because she didnt do either of these things it
subsequently closed her account. Halifax provided Miss N with sufficient notice of closure as
per the terms and conditions of the account, and so I dont currently think it has done
anything wrong here.
Halifax has already offered to pay Miss N £125 for it initially not being able to give her more
information about why the account had closed. I currently think this offer is fair in the
circumstances.
Halifax responded to my provisional decision to say it didnt have anything further to add. 
Miss N also responded. I have summarised her main points below:
She didnt receive the letter that Halifax sent to her about the potential account 
closure. And Halifax hasnt been able to prove that the letter was sent or received. 
Relying on a sample letter isnt satisfactory evidence.
She is being punished for not using a credit card.
Halifax has made a mistake and she is now suffering the consequences of the 
mistake.
She is left without a credit card and now has no way of being able to get a new one. 
Her request for a new credit card is not an unreasonable one.
Because both parties have now responded, I am now in a position to make my final decision 
on Miss Ns case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ns complaint. This is mainly for the 
reasons already outlined in my provisional decision, but I will cover off Miss Ns points below. 
Before I do this, I wanted to explain to Miss N that there are times where its not possible to 
have all the evidence to be absolutely certain about what happened in the circumstances of 
a complaint. It is my role to decide on what I think is most likely to have happened, based on 
the information I do have. 
Miss N maintains that she didnt receive the letter. I dont think she has been dishonest in 
her recollection of what happened here. But in my provisional decision, I explained that I have seen evidence that persuades me that it more likely than not that Halifax sent the letter 
to Miss N. 
I wouldnt expect Halifax to have any evidence to show that the letter had been received by 
Miss N - it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Halifax to check that every single letter it sends 
has been received by its customer. I appreciate not all post is correctly delivered, however, 
the vast majority of it is  and I havent seen any evidence or been given a reason as to why 
the letter might not have been delivered. In any event, on balance, Im satisfied that its more 
likely that Halifax sent the letter to Miss N, and so it did what it needed to do to notify her of 
the potential closure of her account.
I take on board Miss Ns comments about a sample letter not being acceptable to show that 
a letter was sent or received. Halifax has provided this service with the sample letter to show 
me what the letter it sent to Miss N would have said. Im satisfied that the letter would have 
made it clear to Miss N that it would close her account if she didnt use the card or let it know 
that she wanted it to remain open. 
I cant agree that Miss N is being punished for not using her card  although I can 
understand why she now feels like this. Halifax wont keep every credit card open 
indefinitely. Its up to Halifax to decide which accounts it keeps open and which accounts it 
wants to close, and this service wont get involved in its commercial decision to close an 
account. But I can look to see if Halifax acted fairly when it communicated the potential 
account closure to Miss N. And on balance, I think it more likely that Halifax gave Miss N the 
option of using the card  or for her to let it know that she still wanted to keep it open. 
I dont think Halifax has made a mistake in closing Miss Ns account. It didnt hear from Miss 
N after it sent her the letter, and Miss N didnt use the account, so it assumed that Miss N no 
longer wanted the account open. The terms and conditions of Miss Ns account also allow 
Halifax to close an account giving her two months notice, and Im satisfied that it likely it did 
this. In any event, Miss N didnt use the account or contact Halifax about the account for 
around two years after it had been closed  which is quite a significant amount of time to not 
use an account. So, I dont think it was unfair of Halifax to close an account that hadnt been 
used for a number of years.
I understand that Miss N says she has been left in a difficult position by no longer having 
access to a credit card. But for the reasons Ive already explained, I cant fairly say that this 
is down to something Halifax has done wrong. Halifax has said that it wont reopen the 
account. And even if I were to decide that Halifax had done something wrong in closing it, 
which Im not, I wouldnt normally direct Halifax to reopen the account again. Its up to 
Halifax who it decides to lend money to, and it isnt the role of this service to intervene with 
its commercial decisions on this.
I understand that Halifax has recently declined an application Miss N made for a new credit 
card  I havent looked into this point as part of this decision, so if Miss N is unhappy with 
this, she would first need to contact Halifax.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Sophie WilkinsonOmbudsman