DRN-3839672
The complaint
Mr N complains that Scottish Widows Limited didnt make it clear to him that in taking out an 
annuity hed no longer be able to withdraw lump sums from the policy. 
What happened
In September 2020 Mr N took a lump sum from his pension. Approximately two weeks later 
he contacted Scottish Widows again enquiring about taking out an annuity. Mr N said hed 
already spoken to Pension Wise about this and following that conversation hed decided he 
wanted to take out an annuity. Mr N said he wasnt going to get financial advice. 
The call-handler said Mr N could shop around with other pension providers to see if he could 
find a better deal but Mr N said he wished to stay with Scottish Widows. Mr N was also told 
that his pension would be sold to buy the annuity and he was asked if he understood 
everything, Mr N said he did. The call-handler said theyd book Mr N in for a call with the 
annuity team. Confirmation of what had been discussed, Mr Ns options and where he could 
get help, guidance and advice was sent in a letter to him the same day.
Approximately two weeks later a member of the Scottish Widows annuity team called Mr N. 
They checked with Mr N that he was looking to move away from the drawdown plan he was 
currently in, and instead purchase an annuity. Mr N confirmed this was the case. 
Scottish Widows again recommended that Mr N seek guidance from Pension Wise or
financial advice and to shop around to ensure he received the best option. In the call Mr N 
asked a number of questions about the different annuities available, Scottish Widows 
explained they could only offer lifetime annuities whilst answering Mr Ns queries. They also 
made it clear it once the annuity was set up it could not be undone so Mr N needed to be 
sure about his decision.
Scottish Widows explained there would be a 30-day cooling off period in which he could 
change his mind but after this the annuity would then be set in place and could not be 
changed.
The annuity quote was sent on 24 September 2020 which once again recommended Mr N 
shop around. It highlighted the importance of reading all the documents provided as once 
the annuity was set up it could not be amended or cancelled. It also explained the income Mr 
N could expect to receive and that the annuity would have no cash in value.
The application was completed and signed by Mr N on the 20 October 2020 and was 
received by Scottish Widows the following day. The annuity was then set up and 
confirmation was sent in writing which also explained Mr Ns right to cancel the annuity 
within 30 days.
More recently, Mr N has complained as his circumstances have changed and unfortunately 
hes struggling financially. He wished to make a lump sum withdrawal from his pension but 
Scottish Widows said as hed purchased an annuity, it couldnt make any further payments 
other than the fixed annuity payments.
Mr N says Scottish Widows didnt make it clear he couldnt make additional lump sum 
withdrawals in the future, nor that the policy couldnt be changed. Mr N also believes 
Scottish Widows shouldve got in touch with him to check if he wished to continue with the 
annuity within the cancellation period. And he believes as the pension is his money, he 
should be able to make changes if he wishes to do so. Mr N asked Scottish Widows if it 
could cancel his annuity but it said it couldnt do so as it hadnt made a mistake.
Our investigator looked into matters but didnt think that Scottish Widows had done anything 
wrong and so didnt uphold the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the findings of the investigator and for broadly the same 
reasons. I appreciate Mr N will be very disappointed with this, but Ill explain why Ive not 
upheld his complaint.
Im very sorry to hear of the struggles Mr N has faced and the financial difficulty he is in now. 
I appreciate he feels that Scottish Widows should allow him access to his pension fund to 
take out a lump sum and that this would help his situation. However, Mr N no longer has a 
pension fund with Scottish Widows, he used this to buy an annuity. And so Scottish Widows 
cannot pay Mr N a lump sum from his funds even if it wished to do so. 
Mr N purchased a lifetime annuity and Scottish Widows is contracted to pay Mr N the agreed 
sum for the rest of his lifetime (Mr N also selected a 30 year guarantee under the policy). 
HMRC rules do not allow providers to undo annuities and break these contracts and for 
example pay a lump sum instead, as Mr N now wants. If Scottish Widows was to do so it 
would likely receive a fine and Mr N would be deemed to have received an unauthorised 
payment (as this would be in contravention of HMRCs rules) and the majority of the 
payment would be taken in tax in any event.
Under certain conditions and only when a provider agrees to do so, HMRC rules allow 
annuities to be cashed in for a sum based on the cost of providing that annuity now. One of 
the conditions is that the value is less than £10,000 and Mr Ns annuity would be well over 
this limit. So, this wouldnt apply to him either even if Scottish Widows agreed to do so.
So the only way in which I could recommend Scottish Widows do something in line with what 
Mr N now wants, is if it had made a mistake that meant Mr N took out an annuity when he 
wouldnt have done so but for that mistake. However, having considered the sales process, 
what it told Mr N, the documentation he received and what Mr N told Scottish Widows, I think 
its clear it acted fairly and reasonably and gave Mr N all the information he required to make 
an informed choice.
I say this because it was explained both verbally and in writing that once Mr N had 
purchased an annuity, it would have no cash in value and couldnt be changed.
Mr N says Scottish Widows shouldve told him that once hed purchased the annuity hed no 
longer be able to make lump sum withdrawals. Whilst, Scottish Widows didnt say this 
exactly, it had explained hed be purchasing an annuity for life which would extinguish his 
fund, how an annuity worked, and this couldnt be amended in the future. Mr N was given 
plenty of opportunities to ask any questions and had he asked if he could continue to make withdrawals ad hoc, it would no doubt have told him that he could not. I think Mr N ought to 
have realised that he wouldnt be able to make withdrawals in the future and if this was 
something on his mind he ought to have asked then.
Hes also said Scottish Widows shouldve checked in with him to see if he wished to cancel 
the annuity. However, there is no requirement for it to do so and Scottish Widows had made 
Mr N aware he had 30 days within which to change his mind both in writing and verbally. So 
I dont think it couldve done anymore here to make Mr N aware of his options.
Unfortunately, Mr Ns circumstances have changed and he now believes withdrawing lump 
sums would be more beneficial for him than the annuity he took out. But for the reasons 
explained, there is nothing that Scottish Widows can now do to help. As Ive said, Mr N 
doesnt have a fund with Scottish Widows, its agreement is to pay him an annuity in line with 
the terms agreed  this was a lifetime agreement and this was explained to Mr N at the time.
In conclusion, Im sorry to hear of Mr Ns financial struggles but for the reasons explained, he 
will not be able to release more funds from his policy with Scottish Widows. Scottish Widows 
havent done anything wrong and so I cannot recommend this complaint is upheld.  
Mr N has told us hes struggling with the cost of living crisis  Im sorry we cant be of more 
help but we can only consider the dispute he had with Scottish Widows and give an impartial 
answer. However, there are agencies that can help people in financial difficulty, such as the 
Citizens Advice Service  their Adviceline number is 0800 144 8848 and is free from 
landlines and mobiles.
My final decision
For the reasons explained I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman