DRN-4228901
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy a claim she made under her travel insurance has been declined by Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral).
What happened
When returning from holiday, Ms B lost her glasses, her video recording device and 
accessories so she made a claim to Admiral, her travel insurer.
Admiral declined Ms Bs claim. They said the video recording device and glasses wouldnt 
be covered as they were left in a hire car, and valuables left in a car is excluded under the 
terms of Ms Bs policy. They also said separately the accessories wouldnt be covered as the 
total amount was under the policy excess.
Admiral also said the policy terms required Ms B to report the loss to the police and/or 
transport operator and obtain a report, but no evidence of this had been provided.
As Ms B was unhappy with Admirals claim decision, she approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. He noted that Ms B 
had originally said she thought she left the items in a hire car, and that is excluded under her 
policy. He acknowledged that Ms B later said she had contacted the hire car company and 
says they must have been left in the airport instead. But there was no evidence provided that 
she had contacted them, or the police and obtained a report, or a report from the airport, 
which was a requirement under her policy. However, he said that if Ms B had evidence of 
contacting them, she should submit this to Admiral for consideration.
Our investigator also thought Admiral had incorrectly assessed the accessory part of the 
claim when saying this fell below the excess and therefore wouldnt be covered on this basis. 
Instead, he said as per the terms, these items would actually be classed as valuables. But 
even taking this approach, the same exclusion would apply as it did to the video recording 
device and glasses, so this part of the claim was fairly declined by Admiral either way.
Ms B didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator.
Ms Bs policy covers loss or theft of personal belongings (subject to other terms and policy 
limits). When Ms B reported her claim, she said:
I think I left my glasses and (name of video recording device) in our hire car.
I have emailed the travel agent.
Waiting for a response.
Admiral declined this part of Ms Bs policy based on the following exclusion:
What is not covered
We will not pay any claim for:
valuables left in a motor vehicle
As these items are classed as valuables under the policy terms, and being left in a car is 
excluded, and this is how Ms B originally reported the loss, I dont think Admiral unfairly 
declined the claim based on this exclusion. 
Ms B has since said she has contacted the car hire company and they didnt find the items, 
so they must have been left in the airport. However, Ms B hasnt provided any evidence that 
she either contacted the police or airport (or hire car company) about the loss, and she 
hasnt obtained any report from them, and her policy terms require this:
Making your claim
a. If youre claiming for lost, stolen or accidentally damaged personal belongings, 
you must:
report any loss or theft to the police or your transport operator within 24 hours 
of discovering it and get a written police report
So, I dont think Admiral unfairly declined the video recording device and glasses part of the 
claim based on how Ms B first reported the loss  items left in a hire car. However, if Ms B 
has any evidence to demonstrate contacting the hire car company/airport/police as she later 
said she did, and any reports from them, then she should submit this to Admiral for 
consideration. But based on the information Ms B has provided so far, I dont think Admiral 
has unfairly declined this part of Ms Bs claim.
Admiral also said that Ms Bs claim for the video recording device accessories would also be 
declined as the claim was for £141.41, but the policy excess was £150. Its not unreasonable 
for Admiral to decline a claim if it doesnt meet the policy excess.
However, Ms Bs policy terms say:
Valuables
Personal items of value which belong to you such as cameras, camcorders, 
binoculars, telescopes, and accessories, audio visual and television equipment, 
spectacle and glasses, computers, tablets, gaming consoles, electronic book 
readers, satellite navigation equipment, mobile phones and accessories, jewellery, 
watches, furs, and items made of or containing gold, silver, previous metals, precious 
or semi-precious stones.
So, whilst Admiral treated the video recording device accessories as general personal 
belongings and declined the claim based on not meeting the excess alone, like our 
investigator, I dont think that Admiral considered these items correctly.The above terms Ive referred to outline camera accessories would also be treated as 
valuables too, so I think thats how Admiral should have considered this part of the claim, 
rather than general personal belongings and relying on not meeting the excess alone.
However, even if they were correctly classed as valuables as per the terms, Admiral didnt 
reach the overall wrong outcome on this part of the claim, as the same exclusion applies to 
the accessories as the video recording device and glasses. So overall the outcome is still the 
same.
With the above in mind, I dont think Admiral acted unfairly overall by declining Ms Bs claim 
based on the information and evidence shes provided.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman