DRN-3812023
The complaint
Mr P, as an executor of the estate of the late Mrs P, says the conduct of Barclays Bank UK
PLC delayed the release of funds to the estate.
What happened
Mr P notified Barclays of Mrs Ps death on 7 September 2021. On 11 November 2021, 14
January 2022 and 15 February 2022 Barclays sent near identical covering letters to Mr P
asking him to complete the enclosed closure form. The final section of this form asked for an
indemnity to protect the bank should any other persons be entitled to a share of the funds.
Mr P did not want to do this, so he had instead provided the Grant of Probate on 9 January
2022. This meant the need to give an indemnity had fallen away.
But Barclays continued to send forms that included this section, and did not say it could be
ignored. What Barclays was actually waiting for was authorisation and proof of identity from
the second executor. But for weeks after receipt of the Grant of Probate it did not tell Mr P
this. Once it did Mr P provided the information and the funds were paid out on 21 February
2022.
Barclays accepts that its communication was poor but says it did not wrongly withhold funds
as it needed the information from the second executor listed on the Grant of Probate. It
offered Mr P £120 compensation for the trouble caused. But Mr P wants compensatory
interest for the period the estate was without the funds as a result of Barclays conduct.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He found Barclays response to it to be fair
and reasonable.
Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. He said this view is inconsistent with
a decision made on a very similar case against Barclays. He disagrees Barclays had a duty
to hold the funds  no other bank asked for consent and documentation from all parties on
the Grant of Probate  yet it delayed the release of over £32,000 for six weeks. Its
requirements are out of step with the industry.
I reached a different conclusion to the investigator, so I issued a provisional decision. An 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision. I asked both parties to send any 
comments by 17 November 2022.
Extract from my provisional decision 
First I want to clarify that I am only looking at the individual circumstance of this case, others 
may seem similar, but each case is decided on its own merits. Also Mr P raised a number of 
challenges to the banks process, but we cannot review the process. That is the role of the 
regulator. We look at whether in the circumstances of an individual case the bank has made 
errors, and if so how it should put things right.
In this case there were bank failings as set out above in What happened. Barclays has
acknowledged this, but then argues that the delay in releasing the funds was not caused by
its service errors, rather by its duty to wait for details from the second executor.
I am not challenging this process, but I disagree that its poor communication had no direct
impact on the delay. Had Barclays made an effective call, or sent a clear letter, on receipt of
the Grant of Probate, explaining what needed to happen next the funds would have been
released much sooner. I say this because as soon as Mr P knew what he needed to submit
he did so. Instead it sent generic letters that still included redundant sections about an
indemnity, with no precise indication of what it was waiting for. It might argue that the form
states that in instances where a Grant of Probate is required all executors are required to
sign, but it wasnt required in this case  that was an option Mr P took to avoid giving the
indemnity. I do not find the way it informed Mr P to have been clear, fair and not misleading.
It follows I find Barclays was responsible for the cause of the delay and so it should pay
compensatory interest.
We dont award compensation for inconvenience to executors of an estate. This is because
the complaint is brought on behalf of the estate itself, not on behalf of the executor as an
individual. So even though I acknowledge that Mr P has been caused some considerable
trouble and upset by Barclays I cant comment on its offer.
Barclays accepted the findings in my provisional decision and asked for bank details for the 
settlement. Mr P also accepted the provisional decision but did not want to provide us with 
the bank details. He asked Barclays contact him directly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agree with the conclusion I reached and sent in no new information, I have 
no reason to change the findings or outcome I set out in my provision decision.
It follows for the reasons set out above I am upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Putting things right
Barclays should pay the estate of the late Mrs P 8% simple interest per year on the balance 
in Mrs Ps account between 14 January 2022 (5 days after Mr P has evidenced he sent in 
the Grant of Probate to allow for time to then supply documents and the consent of the 
second executor) and the date of settlement.
If Barclays considers it is legally obliged to deduct basic rate tax from the interest element of
the award it must provide Mr P with a tax deduction certificate so that he can claim a refund
if appropriate.
Barclays should also pay Mr P £120 as it offered to. 
It should contact Mr P to obtain bank details for these payments.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ps complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC must put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P, on behalf of the estate of Mrs P, to accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman