DRN-3505512
The complaint
Mr R complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax provided incorrect information when 
discussing details about available mortgage products; and how long his concessionary 
benefits would remain after leaving the business employment.
What happened
Mr R contacted Halifax in November 2021 to arrange a new rate for his mortgage. He says 
he was provided with incorrect information on a number of occasions and this added to an 
already stressful time for him. Mr R has said he was also provided with conflicting 
information about the concessionary interest rate his mortgage would be subject to moving 
forward, as an ex-staff member. He said hes lost out financially as in the intervening time 
taken to look to resolve the issues interest rates increased and he ended up accepting a 
higher rate than would have been available to him at the start of this process.
Halifax upheld Mr Rs complaint in part and offered him £40 compensation. It said he had 
been provided with incorrect information on two telephone calls where he discussed looking 
to obtain a new mortgage rate; but it said that any matter relating to how long he would 
remain eligible for concessionary or staff rates was a matter he need to discuss directly with 
its HR department, and wouldnt be considered as part of his complaint. 
In our latest view our investigator concluded that Halifax didnt need to do anything more to 
resolve the complaint. She said the £40 Halifax had already paid fairly reflected the incorrect 
information Halifax had provided and the distress and inconvenience this had caused Mr R. 
She explained that under the rules our service operates, she didnt think we should consider 
Mr Rs complaint about the concessionary rate available to him and that we should dismiss 
it. She said this because she considered this was an employment matter coming about from 
Mr Rs relationship (or previously relationship as an ex-member of staff) with the business. 
Mr R asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs complaint about the incorrect information provided about the rate switch
Halifax has acknowledged it provided Mr R with incorrect information on two separate phone 
calls when he was looking to switch his mortgage to a new rate. So, as theres no longer a 
dispute about what happened, Ive considered if Halifaxs offer fairly compensates Mr R for 
the incorrect information provided. 
Mr R was provided incorrect information on two phone calls before the correct information 
was provided; something that he had to point out to Halifax during the second call when 
referring its representative to Halifaxs website. He has said the incorrect information added 
to an already stressful time as he was off work and would be leaving the employment of the 
business in the coming month. I accept this was a difficult time for Mr R, when he was 
looking to ensure his finances were in order before leaving employment; and I consider this 
incorrect information would have only added to the stress of the situation. 
The incorrect information, while being provided twice, was over a matter of two days. And 
although it took Mr R bringing the correct information to Halifaxs attention during the call on 
the second day, it was then accepted as being correct and Mr R was aware he could 
complete a rate switch. So, the incorrect information was corrected reasonably quickly which 
reduced the impact this had on Mr R. 
I therefore consider the £40 Halifax has already paid in recognition of the incorrect 
information fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused; and it therefore doesnt 
need to do anything further to resolve this part of Mr Rs complaint.
Mr Rs eligibility for concessionary/staff rates
The rules under which our service operate give us the provision to dismiss a complaint when 
it wouldnt be appropriate for us to consider it. These rules can be found in the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) handbook under the section titled Dispute Resolution: Complaints 
(DISP) which can be found online. 
DISP 3.3.4A R (5) provides for the ombudsman to dismiss a complaint without consideration 
of the merits if it would otherwise seriously impair the effective operation of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
DISP 3.3.4B G (1) provides an example where the subject matter of the complaint would be 
better dealt with by a court or a comparable alternative dispute resolution service. 
Mr R complains that he was provided with conflicting information about his eligibility to retain 
the concessionary rate on his mortgage once he would have left the employment of the 
business. And as he couldnt obtain a definitive answer, he remortgaged elsewhere at a 
higher rate than had been available to him previously. Mr R has asked us to listen to calls 
between him and the HR department, but Halifax has said these calls arent recorded for 
confidentiality reasons; and it hasnt considered this part of Mr Rs complaint. 
I understand Mr Rs strength of feeling on this point, and that he considers our service 
should consider this as he says his complaint has come about from him being a customer of 
Halifax. However, even if these calls were available this part of Mr Rs complaint arises from 
a matter brought about by an employment condition and/or employment benefit and 
agreement (or now ex-employment benefit and agreement). So, this is a dispute which 
would be better dealt with by a court or tribunal to sort out the matters surrounding the terms 
of Mr Rs employment, and any benefits relevant once employment with the business came 
to an end.
So, Im satisfied this part of Mr Rs complaint should be dismissed as to consider it would 
otherwise seriously impair the effective operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold part and dismiss part 
of Mr Rs complaint about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman