DRN-4197055
The complaint
Mr O complains about how Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) handled a claim under 
his pet insurance policy for treatment of his dog.
References to Great Lakes include their agents who administer the policy.
In making his complaint, Mr O was supported by a representative. References to Mr O 
include his representative.
What happened
Mr O had a pet insurance policy covering his dog, taken out in September 2021. In July 2022 
the dog received treatment for an abscess. Mr O contacted Great Lakes to tell them about 
the treatment and make a claim. He subsequently sent copies of vet receipts to support the 
costs of treatment. 
Great Lakes considered the claim, but Mr O was concerned at the time taken before they 
declined the claim later the following month. They did so because they considered the 
treatment was in respect of a pre-existing condition (pre-existing conditions were excluded 
from cover under the policy).  
Mr O was unhappy at the decline of his claim and provided a letter from the vet which stated 
the treatment of the abscess wasnt for a pre-existing condition. Great Lakes considered the 
letter but maintained their decline of the claim on the grounds of a pre-existing condition.
Mr O complained to Great Lakes, as he didnt think the previous clinical history indicated a 
pre-existing condition (as the vet stated). He was also unhappy at the time taken to assess 
his claim and the service, including contact from call handlers and claims assessors.
Great Lakes didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they confirmed the decline of 
the claim, as the dog received advice (from the vet) for the clinical signs of the abscess 
within 24 months prior to the start of the policy. Great Lakes referred to the policy definition 
of a pre-existing condition as anything a pet received treatment, medication, or advice within 
the 24 months prior to the policy start date. They also considered the term advice to include 
anything a vet observed and recorded in a pets clinical history.
Great Lakes referred to the dogs clinical history prior to the start of the policy, including a 
visit to the vet in August 2021 for a recurring lump on the left-hand side temporomandibular 
region over the preceding three months. Fine needle aspiration (FNA) was carried out. The 
vet subsequently advised possible sialocele/sialadenitis/abscess. Further visits in February 
and April 2022 noted a recurrence of the lump. Great Lakes said the mass was first treated 
prior to the policy start and when the dog was seen after policy start, the mass had grown (in 
the same location). So it was a recurrence of the lump previously identified. Meaning clinical 
signs of the abscess were present, and advice given before the policy started, so a pre-
existing condition (and excluded from cover).
On the issue of the service Mr O received, Great Lakes didnt (from review of calls) feel their 
service had fallen below standard, other than one occasion where a call back didnt happen. 
So, Great Lakes upheld this element of the complaint, apologising to Mr O.
Mr O then complained to this service. His complaint contained several elements. First, the 
overall time taken to assess his claim (despite telling Great Lakes hed paid the vet bills in 
full). Second, he found it difficult to contact them and to speak to the assessor dealing with 
the claim. Third, he disagreed with the decline of the claim as at no time during previous 
visits to the vet had his dog been diagnosed with an abscess or received treatment for such 
a condition. The tests carried out didnt diagnose the masses as abscesses and before 
further tests could be carried out, the treatment had removed the abscesses. His vet also 
said it wasnt a pre-existing condition. Mr O said hed found the whole process difficult, time 
consuming and upsetting. Hed also suffered significantly financially. 
He wanted Great Lakes to review the claim and settle it in full (subject to the policy excess) 
and for Great Lakes to review claim processes to make them more streamlined for 
policyholders. He also wanted them to improve their claims and complaint response 
timelines and make it easier for policyholders to speak to the assessor dealing with a claim. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Os complaint, concluding Great Lakes hadnt acted fairly. He 
didnt consider Mr O made a misrepresentation (about whether the dog had a pre-existing 
condition) under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA) as Great Lakes hadnt asked a clear question about whether Mr Os dog had a pre-
existing condition. The investigator also didnt think the dog had a pre-existing condition. The 
vet said the earlier incident of a lump was likely caused by a foreign body, with no evidence 
to link it to the subsequent treatment for an abscess. As the onus was on Great Lakes to 
show it was reasonable to apply an exclusion to decline the claim, as they hadnt shown this, 
they should reassess the claim. The investigator also thought Great Lakes should pay Mr O 
£50 for delays assessing the claim and the time Mr O had spent chasing about the claim. 
Great Lakes disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. In disagreeing, they said they werent saying Mr O made any kind of 
misrepresentation when he took out his policy nor that Mr Os policy was invalid (a remedy 
under CIDRA if an insurer thought a consumer made a misrepresentation). Theyd declined 
the claim because they thought there was a pre-existing condition and not because of how 
Mr O answered questions at the time he took out the policy. Great Lakes referred to their 
response to Mr Os providing his vets opinion (and their final response) setting out their 
grounds for concluding there was a pre-existing condition. They also emphasised the lump 
recurred in the same location as evidence of pre-existing condition, which the vet was 
seeking to identify the underlying cause - with the diagnosis of an abscess/foreign body 
coming later. They also highlighted clinical notes references to the lump and its recurring 
nature.
In my findings, I considered the information and evidence, including the respective views of 
Mr O, Great Lakes and the vet. Looking at what the vet had said, the difference seemed to 
be the nature of the mass or lump. The first, being linked to the salivary gland or associated 
condition (with clear fluid aspirated) and the second being an abscess (with purulent material 
aspirated) possibly caused by a foreign body (not the salivary gland).
I thought the question was therefore whether the mass (lump) had different causes (as the 
vets opinion indicated) and therefore a different condition. Or, as Great Lakes said, the 
mass (lump) having been present in the same part of the dog means there were clinical 
signs of the condition that subsequently occurred in July 2022 (the abscess). So, the issue 
came down to which of the two views is consistent (or could reasonably held to be 
consistent) with the terms of the policy, and what it defines as a pre-existing condition. On 
balance I was more persuaded by the view of Great Lakes. I also considered the clinical history of the dog in the context of the policy definition of a pre-
existing condition. I concluded the history could reasonably be considered consistent with 
the policy definition. Taking all these points into account, I concluded Great Lakes had 
shown enough to apply the exclusion for a pre-existing condition in the circumstances of the 
case. So, I concluded Great Lakes acted fairly to apply the exclusion to decline Mr Os claim.
But I agreed Mr OI had suffered some distress and inconvenience, and I thought £50 
compensation would be fair and reasonable.
On the point that Mr O was also unhappy at Great Lakes processes for assessing claims 
(and handling complaints) and asked that they are streamlined, I thought these wee 
operational matters for Great Lakes. So, they werent ones that fell within the remit of this 
service. Complaint handling was also something that fell outside the remit of this service, so 
I didnt ask Great Lakes to do anything further in these regards.
Because I reached different conclusions to those of our investigator, I issued a provisional 
conclusion to give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. This is set out 
below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My role here is to decide whether Great Lakes have acted fairly towards Mr O. 
The two key issues in Mr Os complaint are, firstly, whether Great Lakes acted fairly in 
declining his claim for treatment of his dog. Great Lakes view is that they fairly declined the 
claim, on the grounds there were clinical signs and vet advice (within 24 months of the policy 
start) of the abscess that was subsequently treated. Mr O, with support from his vet, says the 
abscess wasnt a pre-existing condition. The second, broader issue is the way Great Lakes 
handled the claim. This issue has further elements, including the time to assess the claim, 
the way Great Lakes communicated with Mr O and the processes for assessing claims and 
handling complaints.
On the first issue, the decline of the claim because of a pre-existing condition, Ive 
considered both views carefully, including the relevant terms and conditions of the policy 
(particularly those referred to by Great Lakes in their final response) together with the 
supporting information and evidence, including the clinical notes and subsequent letter and 
the clinical history of Mr Os dog. 
In their final response, Great Lakes refer to the Policy definition of a pre-existing condition 
which states in Section 1.3 Definitions we use that pre-existing condition means:
anything your pet has had treatment, medication or advice for in the 24 months 
before your policy starts. We consider advice to include anything a vet observed and 
recorded in your pets clinical history.
In turn the policy terms and conditions go on to say in Section 5. Your cover that:
pre-existing conditions
x We will not pay for any costs relating to pre-existing conditions. Ive then considered the question of whether the dog did have a pre-existing condition. Great 
Lakes, in their final response, refer to the dogs clinical history prior to the policy start, 
including a visit to the vet in August 2021, after which the vet subsequently advised possible 
sialocele1/sialadenitis2/abscess. Further vet visits in February and April 2022 noted a 
recurrence of the lump. So, Great Lakes say the mass was first treated prior to the policy 
start and when the dog was seen after policy start, the mass had grown (in the same 
location). So the mass was a recurrence of the lump previously identified. Meaning clinical 
signs of the abscess were present, and advice given before the policy started, so it was a 
pre-existing condition (and therefore excluded from cover).
Ive also considered the view of Mr Os vet, provided to Great Lakes during the assessment 
process. The key parts of the vets view are as follows:
We would not consider the abscess claimed for to be a pre-existing one, the reason 
being that although [the dog] had swelling on left hind side previously (July 2021 to 
August 2021) an FNA was performed which aspirated out clear fluid with bloody 
areas, not typical purulent material that is normally associated with an abscess. This 
can be indicative of sialocele
[The dog] then presented to us in July 2022 with swelling on left hind side and 
pyrexia. We performed another FNA which aspirated purulent material, not consistent 
with saliva. [The dog] was diagnosed with a submandibular abscess.
The history was sent to a soft tissue specialist in July 2022 to review the case and 
they were concerned the problem may not be its salivary gland, but rather a small 
foreign body.
Looking at what the vet has said, the difference would seem to be the nature of the mass or 
lump. The first, being linked to the salivary gland or associated condition (with clear fluid 
aspirated) and the second being an abscess (with purulent material aspirated) possibly 
caused by a foreign body (not the salivary gland).
The question is therefore whether the mass (lump) had different causes (as the vets opinion 
indicates) and therefore a different condition. Or, as Great Lakes say, the mass (lump) 
having been present in the same part of the dog means there were clinical signs of the 
condition that subsequently occurred in July 2022 (the abscess). So, the issue comes down 
to which of the two views is consistent (or could reasonably held to be consistent) with the 
terms of the policy, and what it defines as a pre-existing condition.
Ive thought about this carefully, but on balance Im more persuaded by the view of Great 
Lakes. In reaching this conclusion Ive looked through the clinical history, which record the 
notes made at the time of the dogs visits and treatments, between July and August 2021 
through to July 2022. The notes record a history of issues with the left hind side mandible at 
various times, including the following references [date]:
reports lump on jaw LHS mandible flared up again, largest has ever been and 
suddenly gotten to so much bigger in size than prev
Diagnoses Salivary mucocele (sialocele) [July 2022]
Diagnoses Salivary mucocele (sialocele) [April 2022]
1 Sialocele is a collection of saliva that has leaked from a damaged salivary gland or salivary duct
2 Sialadenitis is an inflammation of the salivary glandrecurrence of lump LHS mandibular region. Solid round lumpsalivary gland?
Diagnoses Sialoadenitis [February 2022]
Advised possible sialocele/sialadenitis/abscessnot typical purulent material, 
wondering if sialocele possibly? [September 2021]
Recurring lump LHS temporomandibular region for last few monthsmobile lump 
LHS,salivary gland? Aspirated out clear fluid with bloody areas.
Diagnoses Salivary gland disorder (unspecified) [August 2021]
Taken together, this supports the view that the dog had a history of issues affecting the 
same area, from August 2021 through to July/August 2022. The former date would be within 
24 months of the policy start date (and within an overall period of 24 months) so would fall 
within the timeframe for a pre-existing condition included within the policy definition. 
Ive also considered the clinical history, including the above extracts, in the context of the 
policy definition of a pre-existing condition:
anything your pet has had treatment, medication or advice for in the 24 months 
before your policy starts. We consider advice to include anything a vet observed and 
recorded in your pets clinical history.
Looking at this, the dog had treatment and medication for a recurring issue affecting the left 
hind side temporomandibular area over the period July 2021 to July 2022. The notes also 
indicate advice from the vet above further tests and other procedures to determine more 
exactly what the issue was. So, while the vet has subsequently said the two conditions are 
different (given the differing nature of the material aspirated out through FNA) I think the 
history could reasonably be considered consistent with the policy definition.
Ive also considered the general principle, where an insurer relies on an exclusion, that the 
onus is on them to show its reasonable to apply it. Given my conclusion the clinical history 
can reasonably be seen to be consistent with the policy definition of a pre-existing condition. 
Taking all these points into account, Im persuaded Great Lakes have shown enough to 
apply the exclusion for a pre-existing condition in the circumstances of this case. So, Ive 
concluded Great Lakes acted fairly to apply the exclusion to decline Mr Os claim.
While separate to the issue of whether the dog had a pre-existing condition (which was the 
basis for Great Lakes declining the claim) Ive considered the point about whether Mr O 
failed to declare a condition at the point he took out the policy. Which would have constituted 
his making a misrepresentation under CIDRA. 
Our investigator concluded Mr O didnt make a misrepresentation (because he wasnt asked 
a clear and specific question about whether his dog had a pre-existing condition). In their 
response to our investigators view, Great Lakes say they arent saying they think Mr O 
made a misrepresentation when he took out the policy. Rather, their decline of the claim is 
based on the policy exclusion for a pre-existing condition. 
Thinking about this aspect, Great Lakes didnt make any reference to Mr O making a 
misrepresentation in their decline of his claim, nor in their final response. Ive also noted they 
havent sought to apply any of the remedies available to an insurer where they consider a 
consumer has made a misrepresentation  such as avoiding the policy from its start, or 
seeking to place a retrospective exclusion for specified conditions from its start or other date. 
Which supports the conclusion they havent treated this case as one involving 
misrepresentation. 
That being the case, Ive not considered this aspect any further.
The second area of the complaint is the time taken by Great Lakes to assess the claim and 
their responsiveness to Mr O during the process. Ive looked through the timeline of events 
provided by Mr O alongside the case notes provided by Great Lakes. Great Lakes say (in 
their final response) they feel their service hadnt fallen below standard, other than one 
occasion where a call back didnt happen. So, Great Lakes upheld this element of the 
complaint, apologising to Mr O. Ive also considered the length of time taken to assess the 
claim (and decline it) and while it involved additional information and consideration of Mr Os 
vets opinion, I think the process did take longer than it should have done (which Great 
Lakes have acknowledged to this service. Taking all these factors into account, I think Mr O 
has suffered from some distress and inconvenience. Taking the circumstances of the case 
into account, I think £50 compensation would be fair and reasonable.
Mr O is also unhappy at Great Lakes processes for assessing claims (and handling 
complaints) and asks that they are streamlined. However, these are operational matters for 
Great Lakes and arent ones that fall within the remit of this service. Complaint handling is 
also something that falls outside the remit of this service, so Im not asking Great Lakes to 
do anything further in these regards.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint in 
part. I intend to require Great Lakes Insurance SE to:
Pay Mr O £50 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Great Lakes Insurance SE must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr O accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Mr O replied to disagree with my provisional decision, making several points. First, that 
Great Lakes had relied on the previous visits to the vet in relation to a lump on the left hand 
side of the mandible and the entry in the clinical notes to possible sialocele / sialadenitis / 
abscess. The fact the abscess was in the same location as the previous lumps wasnt (he 
felt) sufficient evidence that the cause was the same. That view was supported by the letter 
from the vet.
Second, use of the word possible didnt mean something had happened or existed (or 
would happen or be likely to happen). There was no evidence that any of the issues prior to 
July 2022 were linked to an abscess (again, supported by the letter from the vet). So, there 
wasnt any definitive evidence to support the view of Great lakes there was a pre-existing 
condition. So, their decision was based on an assumption, not the information available and 
the view of the vet.
Mr O also didnt accept my conclusion about which view (Mr Os or Great Lakes) was 
consistent with the terms of the policy and what it defined as a pre-existing condition. And 
why my conclusion differed from the opinion of the vet.
Great Lakes replied to say they had nothing further to add and accepted the provisional 
decision to pay Mr O £50 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Great Lakes have acted fairly towards Mr O.
Ive considered carefully the points made by Mr O in response to my provisional decision, 
and Ill set out my views on each of them in turn.
On the first and second points, I accept the clinical history doesnt provide a definitive view 
that the previous visits indicated the same condition as that subsequently in July 2022. 
Specific diagnoses wont always be possible at a point in time, which is why they can be 
qualified by use of terms like possible (or suspect). Where thats the case (as here) I have 
to form a view (from the available evidence and information) about what  on the balance of 
probabilities  is more likely to be the case.
In the circumstances of this case, the question is whether the history  given treatment and 
medication for a recurring issue affecting the left hind side temporomandibular area and 
advice from the vet about further tests and other procedures  is consistent with the policy 
definition set out in my provisional decision. In my view, it is. So, on the balance of 
probabilities, I concluded there was enough evidence to support the conclusion there was a 
pre-existing condition. And while I noted the view of the vet (setting it out in detail in my 
provisional decision) this didnt change my conclusion about the clinical history over the 
period indicating a pre-existing condition (as defined in the policy).
On the third point, my role is to decide, in the circumstances of a case, whether a business 
has acted fairly and reasonably. This will involve deciding whether a business has acted in 
line with (or applied) the specific terms and conditions of a policy. Which is why we consider 
the evidence and information available (including the views and opinions of a vet in pet 
insurance cases) alongside what a policy sets out in the terms and conditions, including the 
definition of specific terms (such as pre-existing condition). This can mean, as here, that our 
conclusions can differ to the views of a vet (or other expert) when considered alongside the 
other information and evidence. 
Taking these points together, Im not persuaded they change the conclusions set out in my 
provisional decision, so my final decision is the same as my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint in part. I 
require Great Lakes Insurance SE to:
Pay Mr O £50 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Great Lakes Insurance SE must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr O accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Paul KingOmbudsman