DRN-2104847
The complaint
Mr M says that Vanquis Bank Limited has wrongly calculated the interest due on his credit 
card account.
What happened
Mr M has a Vanquis credit card. In October 2019 he used it to make a purchase for £3,000. 
That transaction appeared on his November statement, which said that the minimum 
payment was due on or before 16 December. Mr M paid nearly £2,600 on 10 December and 
made a further payment of just over £500 on 18 December. 
When Mr M received his next statement, however, he noticed that he had been charged 
interest on the full amount of £3,000 from the date of the transaction. Hed expected to pay 
interest on the balance left on his account after the payment of 16 December, but not on the 
full amount. He didnt expect to pay interest on anything hed paid before the payment due 
date  16 December. 
When Mr M queried what had happened with Vanquis, it explained that no interest is 
charged as long as the full statement balance is paid by the due date. If, as happened here, 
payment isnt made in full, the interest free period is revoked and interest calculated from the 
transaction date. It had therefore correctly charged interest on the full amount from the date 
of the transaction until the first payment was made and on the remaining balance from then 
until the second payment was made. 
Mr M didnt accept that explanation and referred the matter to this service. One of our 
investigators considered it but, having reviewed the account terms, concluded that Vanquis 
was right to calculate and charge interest from the date of the transaction  and that its 
explanation was correct.
Mr M didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review 
them.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have however reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator did, and for broadly 
the same reasons.
I note that Mr M routinely pays off the full balance of his statement in full by the due date. 
Because of that, he doesnt usually incur interest on his card transactions. The information 
about the Vanquis card published on its website explains that but goes on to say that, 
otherwise, interest is charged from the date on which a transaction is debited to the account.  
I appreciate that Mr M thinks it unfair that, having paid nearly all of what hed borrowed 
before the due date and the balance very shortly after it, he should be charged interest on 
the full amount. That is however what the account terms provide for. Thats in line too with 
how other credit card providers charge interest; purchases are generally interest-free only if 
the full balance on the account is cleared by the due date on the statement. Otherwise, 
interest is charged from the date of the transaction.
Im satisfied therefore that Vanquis has charged interest in line with the account terms and 
hasnt therefore treated Mr M unfairly.      
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Vanquis Bank Limited to do anything further to resolve 
Mr Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman