DRN-4404056
The complaint
Miss K has complained that she is unhappy with the quality of a car she acquired in January 
2023, using a hire purchase agreement with N.I.I.B. Group Limited, trading as Northridge 
Finance (Northridge).
What happened
Miss K acquired a used Land Rover in January 2023, using a hire-purchase agreement with 
Northridge. The car was nearly six years old, with a mileage of 49,000. The cost of the car 
was just under £33,000, of which Miss K borrowed £21,603.99 over a term of 60 months with 
a monthly repayment of £453.32. 
Miss K said that straight after getting the car, she had a problem, in that there seemed to be 
no power when pulling away. The dealership advised her to contact the warranty company  
it told her to take the car to a specialist. Miss K took the car to a local Land Rover garage, 
and the diagnostic report refers to issues with the cylinders and states that the car will 
require a new main block. The mileage at that point was 50,306.
The car was then collected for repair by the selling dealership. It was returned just over a 
week later at the beginning of February 2023 (Miss K having been provided with a courtesy 
car in the interim), with the dealership saying that the issue had been an electrical fault 
which had been fixed. The dealership also offered to extend the warranty on the car from six 
months to three years.  
Miss K said that the problem with the car the reoccurred in May 2023. Again she was told by 
the selling dealership to take the car to a specialist, and this she did. In summary, this Land 
Rover garage concluded that the car was breathing excessive oil, there was suspected 
premature bore wear on cylinders 1 & 4 and that a new engine was required, along with 
possible replacement of the turbo and intercooler.
The selling dealership collected the car in mid-June 2023, and returned it a month later after 
carrying out the following repairs:
Replacement of block;
Crank stripped and polished;
New set of crank bearings;
New piston ring set;
Replacement of gasket;
Turbos inspected and believed these were fine;
Intercooler inspected and flushed;
Cylinder head inspected and diagnosed as fine;
Full lower engine rebuild.
The day after the car was returned, Miss K found that oil was leaking from the car over her 
driveway. She spoke to the selling dealership and was again told that the car needed to go 
to another specialist for diagnostic tests. After she spoke to the warranty company, Miss K 
said that she then received a phone call from the selling dealership, in which its 
representative was aggressive towards her (although the dealership disputes this).
After this, Miss K felt that she wanted to reject the car. The selling dealership didnt agree, 
saying, in summary, that the initial problem was due to an electrical fault, the cause of the 
second issue was found to be the failure of number 4 piston oil ring and according to the 
independent engineer this wouldve happened quite suddenly, and finally its pre-delivery 
inspections did not identify any underlying issues with the vehicle.
After this, Miss K complained to Northridge. It wrote to her in July 2023 to say that it hadnt 
completed its investigation, but that given the time it was taking she could bring her 
complaint to this service. This she did. During the course of this complaint, Miss K also 
arranged for an independent inspection of the vehicle at her own expense. I have a copy of 
the report and its contents are discussed below. 
Our investigator looked into Miss Ks complaint, and concluded that it should be upheld. 
Northridge asked for more time to consider its response to our investigators view, and our 
investigator agreed to its request for an additional 14 days to prepare its submissions. It did 
not send anything in, despite a reminder at the time. Miss Ks complaint was then referred 
for review by an ombudsman, with a further deadline of mid-October given to Northridge to 
provide any further information it wished to be considered. Northridge did not send anything 
in, and nor did it request any additional time to respond. As over a month has passed since 
that final deadline, and as Northridge has not responded after being prompted to do so, I am 
now issuing my final decision.
I should also say here that Miss K told us that she and her child both have health problems, 
so this situation is particularly difficult and stressful for them, 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Ks complaint. Ill explain why. 
Because Northridge supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, its responsible for a 
complaint about the quality, and theres an implied term that the car was of satisfactory 
quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person 
would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances such as (amongst other 
things) the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. When considering satisfactory 
quality, I also need to look at whether the car is durable  that is, the components within the 
car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time.
In this case of course, the car was nearly six years old, with a mileage of 49,000 when Miss 
K acquired it. And the price was lower than that of a new car. So its reasonable to expect 
that parts of the car would have suffered a degree of wear and tear, and that a car of this 
age would likely need repair and maintenance sooner than a newer car. 
Ive taken account of the relevant law, in particular the Consumer Rights Act 2015, (CRA). 
There are certain times, set out in the CRA, when a consumer is entitled to reject goods, in 
this case the car, if they dont conform to contract  a short term right to reject within 30 days 
of taking delivery, or a final right to reject if a repair or replacement hasnt resulted in the car 
subsequently conforming  that is, it then being of satisfactory quality. Miss K sent in details of the sequence of events, together with copies of email exchanges 
with the various parties and the sales documentation and service history for the car. She 
also provided a copy of the independent inspection report she arranged, at a cost of £288. 
Northridge sent in copies of the hire purchase agreement and emails with the dealership.
Ive carefully considered all of the evidence provided. 
The first fault became evident as soon as Miss K got the car in January 2023. I note that the 
Land Rover garage which inspected the car at this point referred to a new main block being 
required, although the dealerships information showed an electrical fault being repaired. I 
dont have any information about these differing explanations of the fault, although I note that 
the block was replaced during the second repair. 
Nonetheless, Miss K was able to drive the car for a few months until the fault reoccurred. At 
this point more extensive repairs were carried out, although these stopped short of the new 
engine said to be required when diagnostic tests were carried out at the second Land Rover 
garage. I note that this Land Rover garage said on its diagnostic report that it believed the 
lining of the bore in one or more cylinders had worn to excess prematurely and that this fault 
would take time to develop and would not be sudden failure. 
As I noted above, Miss K commissioned an independent inspection report from an 
organisation which provides expert vehicle inspections. I have a copy of this report, and a 
copy has been sent to Northridge. The car mileage at the date of the report was 53,539.
The report includes the sequence of events relating to the faults, diagnostics, and repairs 
which Ive set out above, and notes that the inspector was given copies of the two diagnostic 
reports from the Land Rover garages, and an email from the selling dealership showing 
details of the second repair. 
The report states In our opinion, based on the available evidence, we can confirm a fault in 
the form of the engine displaying excessive blow by and goes on to explain this term, and 
that the issues often relate to the failure of the piston rings.
The report ends by saying that We can conclude that on inspection of the vehicle and upon 
reviewing the information made available, we would advise that the fault with the engine 
would be the result of an unsuccessful repair. The report states the parts requiring 
replacement as engine and sundries.
Our investigator also carried out her own research as noted in her view. In summary, she 
said shed found that cylinders dont suddenly fail after covering the mileage this car has 
done (49,000 at the point of supply). Reduced cylinder compression is due to worn piston 
rings and typically piston rings should last for around 100,000 miles. In addition, she found 
that piston rings should not make contact with the cylinder walls, and therefore, failure of the 
piston rings can cause oil to escape into the cylinder thus causing the car to breathe 
excessive oil. So, as the piston rings are worn, even if they were replaced, the new piston 
rings would not be able to compensate for the grooves/ scrapings already made by the old 
piston rings.
I have carried out my own online research and I agree with the points made by our 
investigator. 
Taking all this into account, my conclusion is that the car was not of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply. I say this for the following reasons. The first fault occurred just after Miss 
K got the car, and the first Land Rover garages diagnostic report identified the need for a 
new main block. (I accept that the first repair, arranged by the selling dealership, identified an electrical fault, but as I noted above the block was actually replaced during the second 
repair a few months later). The fault reoccurred within a few months, necessitating much 
more extensive repairs, and the subsequent independent report concluded that the fault with 
the engine at that point was due to an unsuccessful repair. The faults occurred within the 
first six months of Miss K acquiring the car, and the parts which have failed ought reasonably 
to have been expected to have a much longer lifespan. And Ive not seen anything to make 
me think that Miss K has caused or contributed to the faults occurring. So I think its most 
likely that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply. 
As my conclusion is that that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, and 
nor did it conform to contract after the repair, I consider Miss K is entitled to exercise her 
right to reject it. So Ive decided to uphold this complaint.  
Although there have been these issues with the car, Miss K has had some use of it, and the 
email exchange with the dealership shows that she had use of a courtesy car for part pf the 
time, so I dont consider it fair to require Northridge to refund all of the monthly payments 
made under the agreement; rather it should refund those payments made from the point that 
Miss K was unable to use the car. 
However, I do consider it fair to require Northridge to pay an amount of £300 in recognition 
of the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss K because of the issue with the car.
Putting things right
Northridge should:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Collect the car at no further cost to Miss K.
Refund Miss Ks deposit contribution of £ £1,263.52.
Refund £10,372.49, which is the remaining balance after settling Miss Ks previous 
hire purchase agreement.
Refund the cost of the independent inspection, this being £288.
Refund the contractual monthly payments made by Miss K from May 2023 onwards
Add 8% simple interest* per year to the amounts refunded, calculated from the date 
each amount was paid to the date the compensation is paid.
Pay £300 for the inconvenience Miss K has experienced due to the faults with the 
car.
Remove any adverse information from Miss Ks credit file (if any has been added).
*if Northridge considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Miss K how much its taken off. It should also give Miss K a 
tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I have decided to uphold Miss Ks complaint. N.I.I.B. Group 
Limited, trading as Northridge Finance should pay Miss K the compensation Ive described.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman