DRN-1677146
 
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received from Virgin Money plc (Virgin) when he 
transferred a cash ISA to them from another bank. He feels he has lost 5 days worth of 
interest.
What happened
The investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and is known to both 
Mr H and Virgin so I wont repeat it in any great detail. Therefore, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think its relevant to the issues. 
However in summary it is this; 
Mr H had a cash ISA with a bank whom I shall call N. He made a request to Virgin to transfer 
that ISA on the 28 December 2018 and Virgin started the transfer process that same day 
with N. Mr Hs account with N closed on the 2 January 2019 and Virgin received the funds 
from N by way of a Faster Payment Transfer on the 7 January 2019. Virgin applied the funds 
they received to Mr Hs account that day. 
Mr H is unhappy as he feels he has missed 5 days interest and so complained to Virgin. 
Virgin looked into his complaint but rejected it as they did not think they had done anything 
wrong.
Mr H was unhappy with Virgins response and so brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator also looked into it but didnt think Virgin had acted unfairly. As Mr H didnt agree, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual complaints and to 
award redress where it is appropriate. Im not the industry regulator, and I dont have power 
to make rules for financial businesses, direct that they change their processes, or punish 
them. That is for the Financial Conduct Authority. 
I will consider whether Virgin acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr H. I aim to 
address all relevant points with a view to reaching a fair and reasonable decision based on 
the evidence before me. I take into account both sides views.  But, where evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, then I have to come to a decision on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, I consider what is more likely to have happened in the light 
of the available evidence and the wider circumstances of the case. 
Ive looked at the available evidence and the time frame I have described above is correct. 
So I cant see that Virgin have done anything wrong here. The day they were asked to 
initiate the transfer they did. That was the 28 December. The day they received the funds 
was the 7 January and they immediately placed them into Mr Hs account. Again I cant say 
they have done anything wrong because they couldnt have done that any sooner. And I also 
note that HMRC guidelines require a Cash ISA Transfer to be completed within 15 working 
days and this transfer was well within that timescale.
I know Mr H feels that he should receive some compensation but because I cant see that 
Virgin have done anything wrong I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator 
and I dont think that would be fair. So I cant say Virgin has acted unfairly and Im not 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Virgin Money plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman