DRN-2036107
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about the service theyve received from Aptus Wealth Limited trading 
as Aptus Wealth Chartered Financial Planners (Aptus).
What happened
In 2015, Mr and Mrs L signed a client agreement with Aptus for its Investment 
Management service. Part of this service is an annual financial review. In 2019 the review 
took place after Mr and Mrs L confirmed there were no changes to their circumstances. 
When it was sent to them, Aptus asked for a response. After there was no response, Aptus 
chased Mr and Mrs L. At this point they said they didnt agree with the review and would 
explain what changes they wished to make.
Aptus responded to Mr and Mrs L and said they would have to pay a fee for a new financial 
review. Mr and Mrs L complained about this. They said that it was their right to review the 
investment and it was wrong to charge a cost to do so. There was further correspondence in 
which Aptus said that the options were for Mr and Mrs L to accept the recommendations or 
reject the recommendation and end the contract. A deadline was given by Aptus, when this 
wasnt met by Mr and Mrs L Aptus cancelled the contract.
Mr and Mrs L complained it was wrong to cancel the contract, and that the options given 
werent right. They shouldve been given an option to amend the review without charge. Mr 
and Mrs L also complained that Aptus didnt give them performance graphs and figures, and 
they believe the figures they were given were purposefully incorrect.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She explained she felt it was right for Aptus to 
charge for an additional review. She said that Mr and Mrs L hadnt raised any specific 
circumstances they wanted the new review to take account of before it was carried out. She 
also said that as the review had been conducted, the offer for them to accept it, pay for a 
new review or find a different investment manager was fair.
The investigator also explained that Aptus wasnt able to send Mr and Mrs L performance 
graphs due to an illiquid investment being part of their portfolio. But it did give a figure for 
performance of the strategy as a whole However, a misunderstanding had occurred and Mr 
and Mrs L thought that figure was for their personal portfolios.
Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the investigator. They believe the service Aptus is giving 
doesnt support the idea of an advisor as theyve not been able to reject and make changes 
to the advice given. They also believe the figures Aptus has given them in relation to 
performance were purposefully incorrect. And they believe that the cancellation of the 
contract will have negatively impacted their investment portfolio. Mr and Mrs L asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint and make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of this service isnt to regulate financial businesses, that is the role of the Financial 
Conduct Authority. Mr and Mrs L have complained about the regulatory status of Aptus but 
this isnt something that I would consider. Ive looked at whether Aptus has made any errors, 
and if so, how to put things right.
Mr and Mrs L have raised a few different issues theyve experienced with Aptus. To 
determine whether Aptus did anything wrong Ive looked at its role and the contract it had 
with Mr and Mrs L. Ive also had a look at the performance information it gave, and whether it 
could or should have cancelled the contract with Mr and Mrs L. Ill deal with these points 
separately.
The client agreement
Mr and Mrs L signed a client agreement for the investment management service. This was 
defined as:
our minimum ongoing service which provides an annual review of your investments but 
no face to face meetings.
So, Im satisfied that having one annual review is all Mr and Mrs L were entitled to under the 
agreement. It went on to say:
You can choose to supplement any of the above services with a one-off review meeting or 
investment review. Our one-off fee for these services are as follows:
-Review meeting - £350
-Investment review - £350
This is the reason Aptus told Mr and Mrs L it would cost for it to do another review, taking 
into account what they wanted to change.
I can see the review that Mr and Mrs L disagreed with was in 2019. At this point Aptus had 
conducted a few annual reviews, so I think it wouldve been reasonable for Mr and Mrs L to 
notify it earlier whether they wanted to change any strategy. I understand there has been 
some focus on the change in Mr and Mrs Ls employment  but I dont think that makes a 
difference here. Ultimately Mr and Mrs L wanted their investment portfolio to have less cash 
and less property holdings in it. As they mentioned this after the review had been completed, 
and it would involve a completely new review to determine a new portfolio recommendation I 
dont think its unfair for Aptus to charge for this.
Mr and Mrs L pay £25 per month for the service  this includes the management of their 
investments and an annual review. As Mr and Mrs L were asking for changes, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Aptus to ask for a fee to review those changes. And at the time of the 
request Aptus had already carried out the contracted annual review making its 
recommendations to match the information it had about Mr and Mrs L and their attitude to 
risk. So I think it fulfilled the terms of its agreement.
I understand why Mr and Mrs L are upset about Aptus only giving the option of accepting the 
advice or rejecting it and finding a different investment manager. I can see why this felt that 
there was no option to work with Aptus about their concerns. However, in this agreement, 
Aptus carries out a financial review and puts forward its recommendation for how it will 
manage Mr and Mrs Ls portfolio. If this isnt something Mr and Mrs L agrees with, it follows 
that they may wish to receive advice elsewhere. By reviewing the investments in line with Mr 
and Mrs Ls needs, and managing the investments in line with that review, Aptus has carried 
out its role under the agreement it has with them. So, I think it was fair that, in the absence of another full review which would cost, Aptus gave Mr and Mrs L the opportunity to receive 
different advice.
Performance information
Mr and Mrs L asked Aptus for a graph showing performance growth over the years they had 
their portfolio. Mr L said he was told this wasnt possible but was then told the portfolio had 
achieved a total return of 48.42% over the last five years. Mr L said there must have been a 
graph to support this. I can understand why Mr and Mrs L are unhappy they didnt receive a 
summary of the performance since 2015. But I think Aptus has explained why that wouldnt 
be accurate.
One of Mr and Mrs Ls investment holdings was in a particular fund that collapsed. I can see 
they managed to receive their investment back from the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS), but this creates issues with producing an accurate summary of 
performance. I can see Aptus explained this, as well as our investigator. Any performance 
figures would be skewed. Instead, Aptus was able to provide Mr and Mrs L a value of their 
total portfolio  including the compensation they received from the FSCS and this showed a 
growth from the money invested.
I do think Aptus couldve done better when it gave a return figure of 48.42%. Its very clear 
that Mr and Mrs L asked specifically whether this was for their investments and Aptus said it 
was. It has since clarified that it was for the moderately adventurous portfolio as a whole  
rather than Mr and Mrs Ls specific portfolio. So, I agree that Mr and Mrs L were given 
incorrect information. But Ive not seen anything to suggest this was done on purpose. And I 
can see that Mr and Mrs L did receive a full breakdown of their investments from the 
platform provider following this. So, I dont think theres any ambiguity around the value of 
their investments or the growth.
Cancellation of the contract
Mr and Mrs L say Aptus cancelled the contract before they had finished talking about their 
options. Ive taken a look at why this has happened and I dont think Aptus acted 
unreasonably.
I can see that Mr and Mrs L didnt respond to the review sent to them in June 2019. Aptus 
chased this with them and after no response in July 2019 it said it would terminate the 
agreement if it hadnt received a response in 30 days. In August, Mr and Mrs L said they 
would respond. They came back and asked questions which is when the correspondence 
started telling them about another review and their options. Aptus had set out their options 
clearly if they didnt want to pay for a further review. This was to accept the 
recommendations for the year or to find alternative advice. I can also see that Aptus agreed 
to an extension for Mr and Mrs L to respond. It said in its email of 29 August 2019:
I will put things on hold until 13th September but if I havent heard from you by then I will 
have to assume that you wish to terminate.
As Mr and Mrs L didnt respond with what they wanted to do by this date, Aptus terminated 
the agreement. I understand that Mr and Mrs L were busy working and so didnt respond 
until 16 September and said they hadnt yet made a decision. But I think Aptus gave them 
sufficient time to consider what option they wished to take and gave them sufficient warning 
that if it didnt hear from them it would terminate the agreement. So, I dont think Aptus acted 
unfairly. I know Mr and Mrs L believe they wouldve lost money whilst their investments havent been 
actively managed. However, Ive not been provided any evidence of financial loss. And, in 
any event, I dont think Aptus acted unfairly in terminating the agreement after it hadnt 
received a response from Mr and Mrs L.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman