DRN-4340760
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that Tesco Mobile Limited continues to ask her to settle a credit 
agreement she didnt take out.
What happened
In September 2022 Mrs C realised shed been the victim of familial economic abuse. A 
number of purchases had been made with her debit card and agreements taken out in her 
name which shed not known about.
One of these was a credit agreement with Tesco Mobile for a mobile phone. Mrs Cs account 
had been debited with £22.99 for this device for nine months before she knew what was 
going on and contacted Tesco. Tesco believed this was a civil dispute and wouldnt cancel 
the agreement. They continued to pursue the debt.
Mrs C was unhappy about what had happened and brought her complaint to the 
ombudsman service. In support of her complaint, she provided details about her report to 
local police. Shed told them about the people whod committed this crime along with other 
supporting evidence.
Our investigator felt that Tesco had no reason at the time the agreement was taken out to 
believe this was a fraudulent account. All correspondence was to Mrs Cs address and 
electronic copies were provided to her email address.
Mrs Cs complaint has been managed by her representative who has confirmed that Mrs Cs 
bank has accepted a considerable number of transactions were carried out without her 
authority. Mrs C has been refunded. This includes payments Mrs C made to Tesco Mobile.
I completed a provisional decision on 10 August 2023. I asked Tesco to cancel the credit 
agreement and stop asking Mrs C to pay anything towards the account.
Tesco Mobile responded and said they didnt believe there was any evidence that Mrs C 
didnt know about this agreement or nothing to say she didnt give permission for the 
agreement to be taken out.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as I did in my provisional decision. What 
follows explains my thinking and takes into account Tesco Mobiles response.
I can see that a credit agreement was taken out in Mrs Cs name in January 2022. This was 
taken out by phone. Unfortunately Tesco Mobile didnt retain a copy of the call beyond the 
six months theyre required to do so. The phone was delivered to Mrs Cs home address. At 
the time members of Mrs Cs family were in and out of her property. A copy of the agreement 
was supplied to Mrs C by email.
Tesco has been able to confirm the phone name was set up in the name of Mrs Cs 
grandson. 
They wondered why it had taken so long for Mrs C to notice there was anything wrong. I 
believe this speaks to a misunderstanding of how financial abuse can impact a victim.
Familial abuse is often difficult to prove and obviously the issues behind this can be 
complicated and distressing. There is no debate that members of Mrs Cs family would have 
had adequate opportunity to misuse Mrs Cs finances and take out agreements in her name.
Ive also considered the possibility that what actually happened is a family dispute. Where 
consent may have been originally provided but then subsequently disputed after something 
happened within the family. That is certainly possible, but I dont think thats what happened 
here.
I note that local police decided not to proceed with taking any action against members of 
Mrs Cs family after interview. From what Ive seen, the police correspondence seems to 
suggest they were unsure of being able to obtain conviction since both sides told different 
stories.
Ive also been able to consider evidence from social media supplied by Mrs Cs 
representative. This appears to suggest a deliberate campaign to take money from Mrs C by 
family members. Ive also reviewed other evidence provided by Mrs Cs representative which 
confirms Mrs Cs poor health and the impact of such distressing events.
I can see there were plenty of opportunities for Mrs Cs debit card to be photographed and 
subsequently used to purchase a range of items  games, takeaway food, TV subscriptions, 
online purchases. I can also see a number of credit agreements were taken out in Mrs Cs 
name, including for a number of different mobile phones. Again this would suggest a level of 
fraudulent activity unless I were to think that Mrs C was involved. Ive received no evidence 
to suggest why this would be the case. 
Most recently Mrs Cs bank has confirmed they will be refunding her for the disputed 
transactions they agree she didnt authorise. This includes the credit agreement with Tesco 
Mobile.
I already believe theres limited evidence to show Mrs C consented to taking out the credit 
agreement with Tesco Mobile. On that basis they will need to stop asking Mrs C to settle 
their debt. 
Tesco Mobile states theres limited evidence to show Mrs C didnt consent to this agreement. 
Im surprised theyve taken this stance. My role is to make decisions sometimes based on 
the limited evidence that is available and take into account the full circumstances, come to 
an outcome based on what I believe the evidence points to. Im satisfied Ive done this here.
Specifically there is evidence:
of additional agreements taken out in Mrs Cs name;
of fraudulent transactions on Mrs Cs account which her bank has refunded;
to show Mrs C went to the police to report what had happened.Overall Im satisfied Mrs C didnt agree to taking out this agreement.
Putting things right
For approaching the last year Tesco Mobile has continued to pursue Mrs C for this debt 
despite her complaint being reviewed by our service. I appreciate their view that this was a 
civil dispute, however I didnt see Tesco Mobile take any steps to understand the emotional 
distress being caused by their action. I believe in the time that has passed, a default will 
have been added to Mrs Cs credit record. This will need to be removed, along with any 
record of the agreement taken out in her name.
I am concerned about the impact this has had on Mrs C and I believe Tesco Mobile could 
have taken steps to alleviate this. Overall I believe their actions added to Mrs Cs distress 
and Im going to be asking them to pay Mrs C £200 in compensation.
As Mrs Cs bank has refunded her for disputed transactions, I wont be asking Tesco Mobile 
to refund payments made from Mrs Cs account.
I have no power to ask Tesco Mobile to take any action on the related airtime contract as 
that isnt a regulated credit agreement so doesnt fall under our services remit. Im sure, 
however, in light of what Ive said they will take appropriate action to cancel that contract.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct Tesco Mobile Limited to:
Cancel the credit agreement in Mrs Cs name for a mobile phone;
Stop pursuing Mrs C for any debt related to this agreement;
Remove this credit agreement from Mrs Cs credit record; and
Pay Mrs C £200 for the distress caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman