DRN-3307486
The complaint
The estate of Mrs G complains that Westfield Contributory Health Scheme (Westfield 
Health) didnt cancel a cash plan sooner. 
The complaint has been brought by Miss G, as the executor of Mrs G estate.
What happened
The late Mrs G was covered under a cash plan with Westfield Health. The premiums were 
collected from her pension through her previous employer.
Mrs G became disabled and moved into a care home. In October 2017, Miss G was granted 
authorisation to be Mrs Gs representative under the Deprivation of Liberty Safeguards. 
On 22 November 2017, Miss G sent Westfield Health documents issued by the Department 
for Work and Pensions (DWP) and Citizens Advice, which confirmed her appointment as 
Mrs Gs representative. Miss G explained that Mrs G had experienced a brain injury and 
asked if she could make a claim for permanent disability under the plan.
Westfield Health responded to Miss G and said it couldnt provide her with any information 
relating to Mrs Gs plan. It said that for her to act as Mrs Gs agent, it would need to see a 
power of attorney document. It explained that some of its plans provided permanent 
disability cover, but only if the disability related to an accidental injury.
Miss G pointed out that an individual without mental capacity couldnt enter into a power of 
attorney. She said she intended to notify Mrs Gs former employer about the benefit 
restrictions highlighted by Westfield Health, so they could consider the appropriateness and 
cost-effectiveness of maintaining premiums on what she thought appeared to be an 
inappropriate plan. 
On 8 December 2017, Westfield Health emailed Miss G. It said that whilst it accepted she 
was acting as Mrs Gs appointed representative, it didnt think the documents shed provided 
meant she could act as Mrs Gs agent in respect of the plan. It said that because of data 
protection law, it couldnt give her any of Mrs Gs personal plan information. Westfield Health 
said that it noted Miss Gs comments about the appropriateness and cost effectiveness of 
the plan, and whilst it appreciated she may feel the plan was no longer beneficial for Mrs G, 
it couldnt accept cancellation from her. However, it said that if she was a named deputy 
authorised by the Court of Protection, then she could be added as Mrs Gs agent. Finally, it 
advised her to contact Mrs Gs former employer to see if she could stop the premiums 
through them.
Miss G contacted Mrs Gs former employer to ask them to stop paying premiums. They 
advised her they could only accept a request to cancel payroll deduction from Mrs G or 
someone with a power of attorney. They said Miss G could apply to the court of protection.
Westfield Health then decided to contact the DWP and the Citizens Advice to verify the 
documents previously sent to it by Miss G. Once it had done so, it decided to appoint Miss G 
as Mrs Gs agent. It emailed Miss G and advised her of this on 18 December 2017. In that 
email it said Miss G should notify it if she wanted to cancel Mrs Gs cover.
In 2020, Mrs G sadly passed away. Westfield Health cancelled Mrs Gs cover under the plan 
at this time.
Miss G made a complaint to Westfield Health on behalf of Mrs Gs estate. She said she had 
asked Westfield Health on behalf of Mrs G to stop collecting premiums in 2017, but the plan 
had remained in place. She wanted Westfield Health to return the premiums paid since that 
date.
Westfield Health made Miss G aware of the email it had sent to her on 18 December 2017. 
However, Miss G said she hadnt received that email. 
Initially Westfield Health refused to return any of the premiums. However, after further 
consideration, it offered to return the premiums for the period December 2017 to August 
2020, when the plan was cancelled. This amounted to £533.10. Miss G was unhappy with 
this offer, as she thought Westfield Health ought to add interest, as well as additional 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience that she said Westfield Health had put her 
through. She therefore brought a complaint to this service on behalf of Mrs Gs estate.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think Westfield 
Health had been wrong to initially refuse to accept Miss G as Mrs Gs agent. She said that 
after Westfield Health had changed its mind on this, it had made Miss G aware of that and 
she couldnt hold Westfield Health responsible for Miss G not receiving this correspondence. 
The investigator thought it was likely though that if Miss G had received the correspondence, 
she wouldve cancelled the plan, so she thought it was fair for Westfield Health to offer to 
return the premiums. However, she didnt think Westfield Health needed to pay interest, or 
additional compensation. 
Miss G didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Westfield Health acted unreasonably by initially advising Miss G that it couldnt 
communicate with her as Mrs Gs representative. The information Miss G provided Westfield 
Health in respect of her appointment as Mrs Gs representative under the Deprivation of 
Liberty Safeguards didnt give her control of all of Mrs Gs financial affairs. As Westfield 
Health explained, Mrs G could be appointed a deputy by the Court of Protection, but that 
hadnt happened. 
Nonetheless, Westfield Health then made the decision to allow Miss G to act as Mrs Gs 
agent. That was up to Westfield Health.
Westfield Health advised Miss G of this in an email dated 18 December 2017. Given that the 
parties had been corresponding by email, I see nothing wrong with this. Unfortunately, 
Miss G says she didnt receive the email. 
Ive read Westfield Healths email of 18 December 2017. This said that in the absence of any 
legal documents, it had been unable to provide Miss G with information in relation to Mrs Gs cover. However, in view of the circumstances, it had contacted the DWP and Citizens Advice 
and verified the documents shed provided. It had then decided to appoint Miss G as Mrs Gs 
agent. 
The email then went onto explain that Mrs G had held the cover since 1975, and that she 
had made several claims. Westfield Health said it couldnt comment on the appropriateness 
of the cover given Mrs Gs change of circumstances, and suggested that Miss G seek 
independent advice on this. It said that if Miss G decided to cancel the plan, she should 
notify it accordingly. Though it also said that she would need to contact Mrs Gs employer in 
order to stop the premiums, as it didnt request the premium payments and therefore had no 
authority to stop these.
As Westfield Health didnt receive a request to cancel Mrs Gs cover, the plan remained in 
place. I dont think Westfield Health acted unreasonably here. It had no way of knowing that 
Miss G hadnt received the email. 
Nevertheless, Westfield Health later decided to offer to return the premiums paid under the 
plan since the date of its email. I agree with our investigator that its likely Miss G wouldve 
cancelled the cover on Mrs Gs behalf at this time if she had read the email, so Westfield 
Healths offer seems fair in the circumstances. However, I dont require Westfield Health to 
add interest to the refund, as it continued collecting the premiums in good faith and hadnt 
actually received a cancellation request.
Miss G says that Mrs G couldnt have made use of the plan after 2014 as she was disabled. 
If Mrs Gs health meant she was ineligible to make a claim under the plan and there was no 
risk to Westfield Health of a claim being paid, then our normal approach would be to require 
Westfield Health to return the premiums. 
Ive therefore looked carefully at the plan terms. I see the plan included a number of benefits, 
some of which Mrs G may not have been able to claim. However, I think there was the 
potential to claim for some of them  such as the hospital benefit. So I dont think it could be 
said that Westfield Health were under no risk of paying benefit under the plan. I therefore 
dont require it to refund premiums from 2014.
Miss G thinks Westfield Health ought to pay an additional sum of compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience she says shes experienced. However, as our investigator has 
explained, we cant compensate representatives for any impact experienced to them 
personally. Thats because a representative isnt an eligible complainant under our rules. I 
therefore dont require Westfield Health to pay any compensation to Miss G  in respect of 
her role as Mrs Gs representative before August 2020, or in her role as the executor of 
Mrs Gs estate after August 2020.
My final decision
Westfield Contributory Health Scheme has already made an offer to pay £533.10 to settle 
the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Westfield Health should pay £533.10.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs 
G to accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman