DRN-2789916
The complaint
Miss T complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Volkswagen 
Finance, did not agree to refinance the balloon payment on her hire purchase agreement. 
She wants a plan to pay it in affordable monthly amounts.
What happened
In September 2016 Miss T obtained a car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Volkswagen. She contracted to make 48 monthly payments and a final payment of £6,300. 
In July 2020 Miss T contacted Volkswagen to ask about finance options for paying the final 
payment as she couldnt afford to repay it in one lump sum. Volkswagen provided her with 
quotations, and she applied for finance in November 2020. Her application was declined.
Miss T says she was wrongly told she hadnt supplied full employment history. After she 
complained, she was told her application was declined because of her credit history.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Volkswagen had given Miss T wrong information, and that it was frustrating for Miss T when 
she had difficulties contacting Volkswagen. But she couldnt conclude that this had an impact 
on the outcome of her finance application, and that Volkswagen had correctly followed its 
application process.
Miss T didnt agree. She said, in summary, that her circumstances hadnt been taken into 
account and that an apology for the unacceptable level of service she received was not 
enough. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator for the following 
reasons:
When Miss T applied for finance in November 2020, she provided her employment details 
for the previous two years and four months, rather than the three years that was required. 
Volkswagen contacted Miss T on 23 December to request the full three years which she 
provided on the same day. Volkswagen told her the outcome of her application on 
8 January. I find Volkswagen dealt with Miss Ts application within a reasonable timescale.
The balloon payment was due on 3 November 2020. Whilst Miss Ts application was being 
considered, the payment remained due for payment, so I dont find Volkswagen acted 
incorrectly in attempting to collect this payment  or in following its arrears procedures when 
the direct debit request was returned.
When Miss T phoned Volkswagen on 8 January, she was given wrong information. She was 
told her application had been rejected because she hadnt supplied the required employment 
history. When she complained, Volkswagen said her application did not meet the 
requirements of its credit scoring system. I sympathise with Miss Ts frustration about this - 
she knew shed supplied the correct employment history. And it wasnt until she complained 
that she was given the right information about her application. But I dont find Volkswagens 
mistake made a difference to the overall outcome here  her finance application had still 
been rejected.
From when Miss T first asked for a finance quote in July 2020 until she raised her complaint 
in January 2021, she says she had trouble in getting through to a member of staff on the 
phone and that Volkswagen did not call her when requested. Volkswagen has explained 
there was increased customer contact during this period, but it was working at reduced 
capacity  because of Covid 19. And Volkswagen accepts that its customer service was not 
always at the level it would have liked. I dont find this is unreasonable in the unprecedented 
circumstances. Despite this, I find Miss Ts application and complaint were both dealt with 
within a reasonable time.
Volkswagen declined Miss Ts application because it did not pass its credit scoring system. It 
suggested Miss T look at her credit file. Shes told us there was a default on her credit file 
and I can see that she missed payments under the terms of this hire purchase agreement 
from January to October 2017 and from January to April 2018. Taken this all into account, I 
dont find that Volkswagen has treated Miss T unfairly.
Miss Ts explained her personal circumstances and why its important for her to have use of 
a car. I am not unsympathetic to the position in which she finds herself. But Volkswagen 
gave due consideration to her application to refinance the final payment and it didnt treat her 
unfairly in declining her application. The terms of the hire purchase agreement require her to 
either return the car, or pay the final payment, at the end of the agreement. And whilst its 
customer service could have been better, I cant reasonably require Volkswagen to do any 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman