DRN-4414777
The complaint
Ms H and Mr H have complained about Lloyds Bank Plc. They said it gave them unsuitable
advice when it recommended investments to them. They think they have suffered investment
losses because of the unsuitable advice they were given and would like to be compensated
for this.
Ms H and Mr H have been represented by a claims management company throughout their
complaint. Their representatives have made several comments, but for ease of reading this
decision and because they are the complainants, I have referred to Ms H and Mr H as
having made these comments throughout.
What happened
Ms H and Mr H opened stocks and shares ISAs with Lloyds in September 2000. They
invested £6,000 each. Ms H invested in a UK growth fund and Mr H a worldwide growth
fund. They cashed in these investments in January 2002, and both made a loss.
Ms H and Mr H said they were given unsuitable advice from Lloyds. They said they were
long standing customers and approached the bank to discuss savings and investment
options after Mr H had received a lump sum when he left his employment.
Ms H and Mr H said they were advised to invest in the stock market at the wrong time and
too soon after going through significant changes to their personal circumstances. They said
they had no prior knowledge or experience of investing but were recommended investments
that exposed them to too much risk. They said they were first time, naive and inexperienced
investors. They said they made investment losses because of the unsuitable advice given by
Lloyds and would like to be compensated for this.
Lloyds said in response that Ms H and Mr Hs complaint was not one that it was going to
look at, as the complaint happened too long ago. Ms H and Mr H were not happy with
Businesss response and referred their complaint to our service.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2023. Both parties have received 
a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the 
decision below. I said;
Lloyds has consented to us looking into Ms H and Mr Hs complaint about what happened 
in 2000 when it gave investment advice, so I am satisfied that I can consider the complaint.
Ive looked at the complaint afresh and I am currently minded to uphold it. Ill explain my
reasons.
I think its reasonable for me to rely substantially on the sales documentation that Lloyds
has provided to give me an insight into Ms H and Mrs Hs circumstances and financial
situation at the time and in understanding of their wishes and intentions.
Ms H and Mr Hs aim was to invest a lump sum. The fact find document stated they wished
to invest for capital growth. They didnt have any investment experience. Their total 
savings amounted to £17,000 in a savings account. They also held around £7,000 in their 
current account. They had a £89,000 mortgage and an outstanding £9,000 loan. Theres 
no mention in the fact find of Ms H and Mr Hs expenditure or disposable income. The fact 
find does state Mr Hs income as £2480 and Ms H as £175. But there is no detailed
breakdown of expenditure at all.
I also cant see that having a sum set aside to cover emergency spending needs or large
unplanned expenses were discussed or recommended. Mr H had only just left his long-
term employment and had been retired on medical grounds. This had happened only 2 
months before the first meeting with the advisor from Lloyds. Mr H said he had started his 
self-employment, his own motorcycle training business. When they met with Lloyds Mr H 
had been doing this for 1 month. Mr H was the sole wage earner.
I think it would have been important for Ms H and Mr H to have a reasonable amount of
readily accessible savings put aside before they committed to a longer-term lump sum
investment, especially bearing in mind the reliance they held on to Mr Hs new self-
employment. Their total savings after the proposed investment amounted to around 4
months worth of their joint monthly income. And Lloyds did not record down either Ms H
and Mr Hs disposable income or how reliable Mr Hs new self-employment income was
either. It had checked Mr Hs monthly income but would also have seen hed been self-
employed for only 1 month.
Without having some money set aside in a savings account which Ms H and Mr H could
access without notice and without penalty, I dont find they had capacity to risk loss on their
investments, especially considering what I have just concluded.
Whilst the ISAs could have been surrendered at any time, their value wasnt guaranteed,
especially in the short to medium term. They were intended to be held over the medium to
long term, and whilst this matched Ms H and Mr Hs investment objective, it risked them
getting back less than they invested if they needed to surrender their ISAs early.
I think its fair to say Ms H and Mr Hs investment experience was limited. So, I think it was
likely to have been more difficult for them to understand the risk they were taking by having
such a significant proportion of their savings tied up in investments that were effectively
designed to be locked away for the long term. This at a precarious time in the short to
medium term for them, as Mr H, the sole wage earner, was only a month into embarking 
on a new business. This, with apparently no guarantee of income, at least none that was
recorded down by Lloyds within the meeting.
In coming to my provisional decision, Ive considered that it seems Lloyds were not aware
how much Ms H and Mr H had in disposable income each month or how significant the
impact would be on any loss of earnings from Mr Hs new business. But in any case, based
on what Lloyds did have in front of it, I think Ms H and Mr H should have been advised to
keep their savings in case of emergency spending needed and establish Mr Hs business
before they committed any of their money to long term investment. I dont think Ms H and 
Mr H were in a strong enough position to invest the amount they did over the medium or 
long term. So, it stands, that I am currently minded to conclude Lloyds advice was 
unsuitable.
In line with the ombudsman approach to putting things right, where a complaint is upheld, I
consider it fair and reasonable for Lloyds to pay compensation to reflect the financial
consequences of its unsuitable investment recommendation in 2000.I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Lloyds responded on 19 October 2023 and agreed with the 
findings. Ms H and Mr H responded on 23 October 2023 and said my findings were 
acceptable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment on or that will 
change the outcome of this complaint. So, because of this, I dont see any reason to depart 
from my findings within my provisional decision. Lloyds now needs to put things right.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Ms H
and Mr H as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not given
unsuitable advice.
I take the view Ms H and Mr H would have invested differently. Its not possible to say
precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out
below is fair and reasonable given their needs and circumstances when they invested.
To compensate Ms H and Mr H fairly, Lloyds must:
Compare the performance of Ms H and Mr Hs investments with that of the
benchmark shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the
actual value of the investment. If the actual value is greater that the fair value, no
compensation is payable.
Lloyds should also pay interest as set out below.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Lloyds UK 
Growth Fund 
(Ms H)
Lloyds 
Worldwide 
Growth Fund 
(Mr H)Unknown Average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate ceased 
to be held8% simple 
per year of 
any loss 
from the end 
date to the 
date of 
settlement*
*Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded. HM Revenue and Customs requires
Lloyds to take off tax from the interest part of that award. Lloyds must give Ms H and Mr H a
certificate showing how much tax is taken off, if they ask for one.
Actual valueThis means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark. Any additional sum that Ms H and Mr H paid into the investment 
should be added to the fair value calculation at the part it was actually paid in.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Ms H and Mr H were assessed as having a medium attitude to investment risk. But,
had the adviser discussed their need for having money to cover emergency or in
planned spending, I think its more likely than not that they would have put their
existing savings in a savings account, where they would have had ready access to
their money without risking their capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Ms H and Mr
Hs circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that they would have invested
only in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return they could have obtained
with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold Ms H and Mr Hs complaint about Lloyds Bank UK Plc and it now needs to put 
things right as I have described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman