DRN-2521624
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy that Hannover Ruck SE will not allow her a cash lump sum in place of her 
annuity.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G has complained alongside her husband, who has a separate complaint, that 
Hannover Ruck should allow them to cash in their annuities. The key point of their argument 
is that they are aware of other instances where customers have been allowed to do so. And 
this has been documented in the media. Furthermore, theyd like the same options for them 
and others like them, that are now available under the pension freedoms legislation.
I know that Mrs and Mr G are knowledgeable on this subject and have done their research, 
so a lot of what Im explaining they will already know. But it is necessary to set out the 
context and reasoning for my decision.
When Mrs G took out her annuity in 2006, she didnt have the option to take the pension 
benefits as a lump sum. Her options were largely restricted to taking out an annuity.
Since then legislation around annuities has changed and since the introduction of pension 
freedoms legislation, providers can now offer customers the opportunity to take the whole 
fund as a lump sum rather than taking an annuity. But this legislation didnt say that annuities 
already in payment could be taken as a lump sum.
The government looked at introducing a secondary annuity market, where customers would 
be able to cash in their annuities. But, after consultation, the government didnt carry this 
forward, mainly because of concerns that it wouldnt be in the consumers best interest to 
cash in annuities. And also because of the complexities around valuing this and whether this 
would provide fair value to customers.
So, the current rules generally dont allow a customer to cash in an annuity and take a lump 
sum payment. However, in instances where the value of that annuity is less than £10,000, it 
can be cashed in if the provider offers this. Mrs Gs annuity was purchased for £7,599.66 in 
2006, and so it will be less than £10,000.
However, Hannover Ruck says that it has chosen not to offer this option to its customers. I 
know that Mrs G knows of other cases where this business and others have chosen to allow 
others to do so. But the majority of providers have chosen not to offer this option to their 
customers. On the majority of occasions, it has been offered, a commercial decision has 
been taken for a group of customers or decisions have been made on an individual basis for 
those with a particular set of circumstances.
As the legislation is only enabling, i.e Hannover Ruck have a choice, I cant say its wrong 
not to offer this to all its customers. However, I have considered Mrs Gs particular 
circumstances and whether Hannover Ruck has been unfair or unreasonable in its stance 
that they wont allow her to cash in her annuity.
Whilst I appreciate that Mrs G didnt have any choice at the time, when taking out her 
annuity, Hannover Ruck (or more precisely the business then responsible) did explain that 
the annuity couldnt be cashed in at the time. And Mrs G signed to agree to this. Whilst I 
appreciate that legislation has since changed, it does show that Mrs G bought her annuity on 
this understanding. And that Hannover Ruck has been consistent in what its told Mrs G.
Mrs G bought her annuity in 2006 and it was setup to pay her a sum every six months, which 
provided an annuity of £370 a year. Mrs G has said its her money and Hannover Ruck in not 
agreeing to cash-in her annuity, is depriving her of whats hers. But when Mrs G took out the 
annuity, her savings built up in the pension were used to buy that annuity. This began a 
separate contract from that of the pension. This contract was to pay the annuity for the rest 
of her life.
This means, in effect, that Mrs G sold her pension savings to Hannover Ruck in exchange 
for an income for life. So, this means there is no money in Mrs Gs name any longer, she 
used that to buy the annuity. So I dont agree that Hannover Ruck is withholding Mrs Gs 
money from her. 
As Hannover Ruck said, commercially for them as a business it also has to consider whether 
offering this option makes sense (under the legislation it has a choice). And in this case I 
think this is a fair argument.
Mrs Gs fund totalled £7,599 and she has been receiving £370 now for approximately 14 
years. Mrs G says its an injustice that Hannover Ruck wont allow her to cash in the annuity. 
But I dont agree. She has already had the benefit of that annuity for 14 years. And if a cash-
in value was calculated for her now, it wouldnt be based on the sum she had at the start 
minus the money shes received to date. The calculation method  used would likely be based 
on how much it would cost to provide a £370 annuity for her life now. This could be quite a 
bit more expensive than it wouldve cost to provide this amount 14 years ago, although a 
reduction on £7,599 as Mrs G is now 14 years older. So I dont think Hannover Ruck is being 
unfair or unreasonable in its treatment of Mrs G in continuing to stick to the agreed life-time 
annuity contract.
I appreciate why Mrs G would prefer a lump sum now and I am sorry to hear about her 
daughters ill health. The amount of annuity she is being paid yearly comes to £370 a year. I 
know this isnt a huge amount of money but it will still have some material benefit to Mrs G. 
And part of the reason the annuity amount is low, is because Mrs G took her benefits early. 
Commonly an annuity is taken at 60 or 65 and the pot is converted into an annuity amount, 
in part, based on how many years it will likely be paid for. 
Mrs G has also put forward a number of more general arguments such as small annuities 
having a negative effect on other benefits. We look at every case on its own merits and 
whilst this may be a strong argument to show detriment, it doesnt apply here, as I am only 
considering Mrs Gs case and circumstances.Mrs G has pointed to the other providers who are allowing annuities to be cashed in and 
cases where business have previously allowed cashing-in on certain cases but no longer do. 
In our experience the majority of cases cashed in have generally been on annuities worth 
much less in value than Mrs Gs would cost to provide now. Or the decision has been made 
for commercial reasons. I know that it may seem unfair that depending on who a customer 
has their annuity with, their access to this option differs. But Im afraid this is a product of the 
legislation, it allows the providers to make a choice.
And the same applies to pension freedoms, depending on when a person has taken 
retirement, the options down the years have changed. Changes in legislation are rarely 
backdated for obvious reasons. I can understand it might be frustrating for Mrs G and others 
in the same position as her, that legislation has changed to give customers more choice. 
But, this is no different to anything else, legislation, law, opportunities differ throughout time. 
And in Mrs Gs case the legislation changed some time after she took her benefits.
We have seen some businesses changing their stance on cashing-in annuities. And if in the 
future Hannover Ruck changes its position on cashing-in annuities or the legislation 
changes, Id expect it to consider its position on Mrs Gs annuity afresh regardless of this 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold Mrs Gs complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman