DRN-1760422
 
The complaint
Mr Ks complaint is about the closure of his current and basic bank accounts.
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr K has provided detailed submissions to support his complaint. Ive read and considered 
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what I 
think are the main issues.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
TSB has confirmed there have been a number of cases of fraud on Mr Ks accounts 
over a two-year period. It had refunded him on some of these occasions and paid 
him some compensation.
The accounts terms and conditions, which were given to Mr K when he opened the 
accounts and were available online, say TSB can close an account at any time by 
giving two months written notice and immediately if its being used for fraud or 
something illegal. 
TSB is entitled to decide which customers it wants to offer accounts to. And in this 
case it was entitled to decide it no longer wanted to deal with Mr K. Here it says it 
was concerned about the number of fraud claims being made on his accounts, so it 
gave him 60 days notice of the accounts closure. But it says that before that notice 
period ended another fraud claim was raised. So, it immediately closed his accounts. 
Mr K has confirmed he has another account with another provider. 
Im satisfied that TSB gave Mr K the required notice to close his accounts and when 
another fraud claim was made it was entitled to determine to close the accounts 
immediately. This was all in line with the accounts terms and conditions. And even 
though the basic account was closed, Mr K has another account and he hasn't been 
left without access to basic current account banking services.
Overall TSB has acted fairly and in line with the accounts terms and conditions. And 
I dont think I can therefore ask it to do anything more or differently.
For these reasons, although I recognise Mr Ks frustration, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about TSB Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2020.Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman