DRN-1135572
 
The complaint
Mr G says Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk (MoneyBoat), 
irresponsibly lent to him. Mr G says he shouldnt have been given any lending as he was in 
serious debt with other lenders.  
What happened
This complaint is about one short-term loan MoneyBoat provided to Mr G in May 2016. The 
amount borrowed was £250 and to be repaid over six monthly payments of £82.90. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Gs. The adjudicator didnt think it would have been 
proportionate for MoneyBoat to have asked Mr G for the amount of information needed to 
show the lending was unsustainable. 
Mr G disagreed. He said he was using other short-term credit providers at the same time 
that he borrowed from MoneyBoat. As a result, he shouldnt have been given the loan.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);  
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
MoneyBoat has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving the 
borrowing. It asked Mr G about his income and expenditure. He confirmed he had a monthly 
income of £1,177 and total outgoings of £324 (which MoneyBoat increased for its own credit 
checks to £800 in line with national average expenditure), leaving him with a disposable 
income of £377. And using these figures for its income and expenditure checks, MoneyBoat 
deemed the borrowing of £250 to be affordable to Mr G. 
MoneyBoat also carried out a search of Mr Gs credit file. It can be seen from this that:
Mr G had other active accounts, 
there was no evidence Mr G had been in an active and/or satisfied county court 
judgments (CCJs) and 
no delinquent accounts in the last 12 months. 
 
Mr G did have one default in the previous three years. But Mr G was borrowing three years 
after he had defaulted on other borrowing which I consider a sufficient enough break for it 
not to have raised any concerns with MoneyBoat. I dont think it was unfair of MoneyBoat to 
have lent to Mr G. 
And given this was the first loan Mr G had taken with MoneyBoat, I think the checks it carried 
out were sufficient at such an early period in the borrowing relationship. I wouldnt have 
expected it to have carried out any further in-depth checks or taken additional steps to verify 
the information it had. I think it was reasonable for MoneyBoat to have relied upon that 
information in making its decision about whether to lend to Mr G, and after taking into 
account his historic loan default. And so it follows that I cant say that MoneyBoat has done 
something wrong in lending to Mr G. I appreciate my findings are likely to disappoint Mr G  he has told us other lenders have 
made offers on other borrowing he had. But we do look at each complaint on its own 
individual merits. And I hope my explanation will help him understand how Ive reached this 
conclusion. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman