DRN-2796550
The complaint
Mr L complains about questions asked and information requested by HSBC UK Bank Plc 
(HSBC) when he tried to withdraw money from a dormant account.
What happened
Mr L has an account with HSBC. In 2020, HSBC placed it into dormancy as Mr L hadnt used 
it for more than a year. In March 2021, Mr L tried to withdraw the balance but wasnt able to 
do so because the account was frozen. He called HSBC about this and the advisor said he 
could close the account and return the funds to Mr L. But Mr L said that, although he didnt 
use the account, he didnt want to close it. The advisor said that he would need to carry out 
some checks in order to remove the dormancy marker and proceeded to ask some 
questions, including about Mr Ls nationality.
Mr L doesnt think he should have to answer these questions to be able to access his 
money. He says that HSBC told him he would need to go into the branch to withdraw the 
funds, which he did. But he says he was asked more questions there as well as being asked 
to provide proof of his address. He says he gave HSBC his address, which matches the one 
it has on file. But he says that HSBC wasnt happy with that and asked him to provide 
documents as proof of his address.
Mr L says he just wants to withdraw his own money and he doesnt think he should have to 
answer all of HSBCs questions or provide proof of his address in order to get it. He 
complained to HSBC, but the complaint wasnt upheld as HSBC said it had followed its 
procedures correctly.
Mr L wasnt happy with that response, so he brought his complaint to this service. He says 
hes been put to a great deal of inconvenience, including time spent on the phone and a trip 
to the branch during the COVID-19 pandemic. He wants HSBC to pay him some 
compensation, as well as releasing the account balance to him. Our investigator thought that 
HSBC had acted fairly and didnt ask it to do anything. But Mr L didnt agree and asked for 
his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In April 2020, HSBC notified Mr L that his account would be frozen from mid-June 2020, as it 
had been inactive for a year. The letter (which was sent electronically) said that, if Mr L did 
nothing, his account would be frozen and he wouldnt be able to use it again until he 
contacted HSBC. Mr L didnt respond to HSBC or use the account following this notification, 
so the account was placed into dormancy when the notice period expired. As the account 
had a credit balance, HSBC didnt close it, but instead inhibited the account. This meant that 
Mr L wasnt able to use the account, including to make withdrawals.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Ls bank account as well as HSBCs policies 
and procedures. Im satisfied that HSBC followed these correctly when it placed Mr Ls 
account into dormancy and inhibited it. Im also satisfied that HSBC gave Mr L notice that the 
account would be frozen.
Ive listened to Mr Ls call to HSBC from March 2021. He said he wanted to withdraw the 
money but didnt want to close the account. The agent said in that case he would need to do 
some checks so that he could remove the dormancy marker. He asked Mr L some 
questions, including his nationality. Mr L objected to being asked this and said he just 
wanted his money. The agent explained that he could close the account and return the funds 
to Mr L. But if Mr L wanted to keep the account open, he needed to ask these questions 
before he could reactivate it. Mr L said he wasnt obliged to provide this information, 
especially as it wasnt information hed had to give when he opened the account.
I think its right for HSBC to have security and identity checks and procedures in place to 
safeguard customers accounts and prevent fraud so far as possible. And I think its 
reasonable that it applies checks when a customer seeks to reactivate a dormant account. 
As to exactly what those checks and procedures are and how they are carried out, that is a 
matter for HSBC to decide. What Im looking at here is whether it applied those procedures 
correctly and fairly.
HSBCs policy for reactivating accounts requires staff to check certain information with the 
customer. This includes asking for the customers Government-Issued Identification Number 
(such as a passport number) and their tax residency. Im satisfied that HSBCs advisor was 
acting in line with this policy when he asked Mr L questions, including about his nationality.
In addition to raising these queries, HSBCs policy for account reactivation requires the 
customer to be fully identified. The customer needs to be present in the branch for this to 
happen. So I think it was reasonable for HSBC to ask Mr L to attend the branch.
The identification procedure involves asking the customer to provide identification and proof 
of address, and there is a set list of documents which HSBC will accept for this purpose. I 
think thats reasonable and I find that HSBC was acting in line with this policy when it asked 
Mr L for proof of his address.
If the customer isnt able to provide their identification or proof of address, HSBCs policy is 
to keep the account dormant and inhibited until the proof is provided. As Mr L didnt provide 
proof of his address, HSBC didnt reactivate the account. I think that was reasonable and in 
line with HSBCs policy.
HSBCs staff explained to Mr L that, if he didnt answer the questions or provide the 
information, it could close the account and release the funds to him. HSBCs policy states 
that the full identification and additional information procedures dont have to be followed if 
the customer wants to close the account. So I find that Mr L was given the correct 
information about this.
In summary, HSBCs policy is that If Mr L wishes to retrieve the balance, he needs to either 
close the account which he isnt using or provide the documentation and information which 
HSBC is requesting in order to continue to use the account. I think thats reasonable and I 
find that HSBC applied the policy correctly here.
I realise that Mr L feels strongly about this complaint and says that HSBC has caused him a 
lot of inconvenience. Its in the nature of some security and identity checks and procedures 
that they sometimes cause customers inconvenience. But the checks are in place to protect 
customers like Mr L. I understand that Mr L may not wish to provide the requested information. But its appropriate for HSBC to have policies and procedures in place to deal 
with dormant accounts and the reactivation of those accounts. And I dont think what it asked 
of Mr L here in order to reactivate his account was unreasonable. So Im not going to ask it 
to do anything. If Mr L wishes to keep the account open, I would urge him to provide the 
information HSBC has requested so that it can be reactivated.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman