DRN-4177024
The complaint
Mrs T, via her representative Mrs M, complains that an investment was mis-sold to her by 
the Co-operative Bank Plc in 1997. 
What happened
In 2022 Mrs M was sorting through Mrs Ts paperwork and got in touch with the Co-operative 
about any accounts Mrs T might have taken out with Britannia Building Society, a part of the 
Co-operative Bank. They told Mrs M that according to their records, Mrs T opened a stocks 
and shares ISA in March 1997 (which would have been a PEP at that time), and they didnt 
have records of it being closed. Mrs M later found a cheque stub showing a payment for 
£6,000, dated a few days before the PEP was opened.   
The Co-operative said that though it would have been sold in a Britannia store, the ISA 
would have actually been provided by Britannia Life, which later became Alba Life, which 
was now Phoenix Life. They said Britannia Life was a separate company to Britannia 
Building Society. 
So, Mrs M got in touch with Phoenix Life, but they didnt have any records of the account to 
say if it still held any money. They explained that ISAs sold by Britannia wouldnt have been 
passes to them but rather to Standard Life, part of Abrdn. Unfortunately, Abrdn also couldnt 
find records of what happened to the account. 
Mrs M raised a complaint about the Co-operative about the fact they were unable to say 
what happened to this account. This complaint has been dealt with separately by our 
service, and wasnt upheld. For clarity, I wont be commenting on that complaint in this 
decision. Following the outcome of that complaint, Mrs M raised a complaint about the sale 
of the investment, primarily because she didnt think the Mrs T was made aware it wouldnt 
be held with Britannia Building Society. Mrs M remembers Mrs T taking out a Guaranteed 
Equity Bond (GEB) and thought that was likely to be the same product as the ISA.
The Co-operative didnt uphold the complaint  they said although the ISAs were sold in 
Britannia branches, the responsibility for the sale lay with Phoenix Life as the ISA provider. 
They explained GEBs were separate, and would have been provided by Britannia, but they 
had no record of Mrs T taking out a GEB. So, they didnt uphold the complaint. As Mrs M 
remained unhappy, she brought the complaint to our service on Mrs Ts behalf. 
An investigator looked into it and didnt uphold it  she thought it was likely that the Co-
operative wasnt responsible for the sale of the ISA, based on the explanation theyd 
provided. Mrs M didnt agree  she pointed out a rewards statement dated February 2007 
from Britannia that showed Mrs T had received a certain number of points for holding two 
accounts, including the PEP. She felt this showed Britannia (and so, the Co-operative) had 
records of the ISA from 2006/7 and that they must have been involved with it at that stage. 
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M has provided detailed recollections of the sale of the GEB, as she assisted Mrs T with 
taking this out. However, shes not provided specific recollections about the sale of the PEP. 
She suspects they were the same product  that the GEB was to be held within the PEP. 
However, based on the balance of probabilities, Im satisfied they were two separate 
products sold at different times. Primarily, this is because the Co-operative has recently 
confirmed that Britannia Building Society didnt start to sell the GEB product until around 
2005  eight years after the start date of the PEP.
 
The Co-operative has also confirmed that the GEB product line stayed with Britannia (and so 
the Co-operative)  so the provider of that is different to the provider of the ISA, which the 
Co-operative maintains is a separate company. 
The sale of the GEB
Though theres no documentary evidence of the GEB, given Mrs Ms detailed recollections of 
the sale of it, I dont doubt that one was taken out in Mrs Ts name. However, neither the Co-
operative or Mrs M have been able to provide information about it  for instance we dont 
know when it was sold, or how much Mrs M invested. 
As these were fixed term products, its not surprising that theres no records of it. Presuming 
it was taken out in the mid to late 2000s, it would have come to an end many years ago. 
Though I know this is frustrating for Mrs M and Mrs T, I simply think the Co-operative wont 
be able to provide anything further about the GEB. Given the time thats passed, I dont think 
this is unreasonable. 
As the Co-operative has confirmed this product stayed with Britannia, Mrs Ms complaint 
point about whether they were told about the fact the product would be with a different 
company, doesnt apply here. Nor do I think it would be fair and reasonable to say it was 
mis-sold for any other reason, given the lack of information  both about the amount and 
time of the investment, and about Mrs Ts circumstances and objectives at the time it was 
sold.  
The sale of the ISA
Mrs M has explained that shes found a cheque stub for £6,000, dated a few days before the 
start date of the PEP. That was the total you could invest in a PEP in 1997, and given its 
proximity to the start date, Im persuaded that was the amount that was invested in this PEP. 
However, its start date and the amount are the limit of what we know about the PEP. We 
have no point of sale documents  so no application form, key features, illustration, fact find 
or suitability letter, which are the types of documents that wed normally want to see when 
considering the sale of an investment. Nor do we have any recollections from Mrs T or Mrs 
M about this sale specifically. 
Having reviewed everything, Im persuaded that the Co-operative arent responsible for the 
sale because:Though it was sold in a Britannia branch, or via their offices, from what Ive seen Im 
persuaded Britannia Life is separate and would be responsible for the way the 
product was sold, and what was said, both verbally and in writing, at the sale. 
On the screenshot the Co-operative has supplied, which shows the start date and 
account number of the ISA, theres no end date. I think the reason for this is likely 
because the PEP was held with a separate company, so the Co-operative havent 
been able to update their own records of it.
Though not responsible for the sale, the Co-operative (or Britannia Building Society 
at the time) kept details of the sales that took place and used this information for 
their Membership Reward scheme. 
The statement from February 2007 does not confirm the PEP was held by Britannia 
Building Society, based on the single page of it that Ive seen. 
I understand that Mrs M feels strongly that she and Mrs T werent made aware that the 
product would be provided by a firm other than Britannia Building Society and feels the 
account was mis-sold as a result. It seems that Mrs Ms main concern with the ISA being 
with a different company is that it wasnt as safe as she and Mrs T were expecting - she 
feels this has caused the money to become lost. 
Given we have no paperwork from the sale, I havent been able to confirm what was said - in 
writing at least - about who the PEP was provided by in 1997. As it appears to have been a 
Britannia Life product, which was a subsidiary of Britannia Building Society at the time, its 
possible that the branding on the documents was all similar, so Mrs T very well may have 
thought the PEP was provided by Britannia Building Society. 
In general, product providers cant guarantee that they will always be trading as a company 
indefinitely  and so with open-ended products like PEPs and ISAs, there is always a risk 
that the product provider may choose to sell their book of products on to a different 
company. Or, as seems to be the case here, the subsidiary could split off from the Building 
Society. 
Unless it was something the business was already planning and had made public knowledge 
at the time of the sale, I wouldnt expect a business to highlight this as a risk to a customer. 
This is because its a hypothetical and remote risk at that point in time. There are many 
hypothetical things that can happen during the life of any product, and its not always 
possible for each possibility to be set out in terms and conditions, or more prominently in the 
other point of sale documents. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied the Co-operative arent responsible for the 
sale of the ISA and so, they havent done anything wrong here. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, for the reasons set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman