DRN-1535746
The complaint
Mr T has complained that National Westminster Bank PLC didn't give him a choice of which 
benefit he would like associated with his student account he holds with it. He is also unhappy 
with the service it has provided over the last two years.
What happened
Mr T has said he is unhappy he was not given a choice of which benefit he could have due 
to him holding a student account with NatWest. Instead, NatWest automatically chose the 
benefit for him.
He has explained that his student account was never set up correctly. And while this issue 
has now been resolved, the service he received over the last two years trying to resolve the 
matter has caused him a lot of distress and inconvenience. He has also said it has had a 
detrimental effect on his mental health. Because of this Mr T has said he would like £2,000 
in compensation. 
Regarding the benefits associated with the student account, the benefit Mr T wanted was 
only given to new customers who had opened an account online since August 2018. Mr T 
opened his account in branch in 2009. So, he had the benefit which was available at the time 
the account was opened. But as Mr T had received a letter stating he could choose which 
benefit he wanted, its NatWest understood why he was confused. So, it offered £150 for the 
confusion it caused. But Mr T remained unhappy, so he brought the complaint to our service.
NatWest has said it has investigated each complaint Mr T has previously raised to get a full 
picture of the service it provided over the two years. It said it recognised there had been 
service failings and has reimbursed Mr T with call costs, travel costs (for when he has had to 
go into branch), and compensation for conflicting information and the overall inconvenience 
caused. But Mr T remained unhappy, so he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ts complaint. As NatWest had issued several final response 
letters addressing each issue Mr T had raised (dating back to 2017) our investigator had to 
consider if we could look at the complaints (as more than six months had passed since those 
final response letters had been issued). However, NatWest gave us consent to consider the 
complaint. 
Our investigator felt NatWest could have made it clearer to Mr T at the outset that due to his 
account opening in 2009, there was only one benefit available. And he agreed, if it had done 
this Mr T wouldn't have felt confused. However, he felt the £150 that was offered to 
compensate Mr T for this was reasonable. 
Having investigated each service issue our investigator agreed that NatWest had made 
errors. And he could appreciate why Mr T was unhappy and frustrated. But he felt that 
NatWest had recognised this and compensated Mr T fairly at each point. So, he said he 
wouldn't be asking NatWest to do anything further in relation to the service issues. Mr T 
remained unhappy, so he asked for the case to be passed to me to consider.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why.
Having reviewed the evidence I am pleased to see that Mr Ts graduation date has been 
updated. However, this seems to be the root cause of most the service issues Mr T has 
experienced. 
Having listened to the call where Mr T raised a complaint regarding the misleading 
information he was given (about getting his charges refunded) in April 2017, I agree he was 
given conflicting information. And off the back of that information Mr T travelled to the 
branch, which caused him a degree of inconvenience. However, I am pleased to see that 
NatWest refunded Mr Ts travel costs and it also refunded Mr Ts charges as a gesture of 
goodwill. And after listening to the call I am aware that Mr T was happy with the resolution.
In February 2018 Mr T raised a further complaint. NatWest advised him that he could 
increase his overdraft to £2,500. And because of this, Mr T was passed to a separate 
department to arrange this increase, where he was put on hold. Again, these issues were 
caused due to Mr Ts graduation date being incorrect on NatWests system. This was 
disappointing to see. Thats because Ive listened to a call Mr T had with NatWest in April 
2017, and in this he explained his graduation date had moved to 2019. Mr T was given £100 
for the incorrect information and £75.60 for call costs. I appreciate Mr T would have been 
upset he wasnt able to obtain the overdraft limit he was told he could have. But he was 
given the right information relatively quickly. Therefore, I cant say the impact of this 
conflicting information justifies a higher award being made.
Mr T was still experiencing issues with his graduation date not being correct in January 
2019.  Mr T said he had provided proof to demonstrate this. Having considered what had 
happened previously, I think on balance, it is likely Mr T did provide this evidence, as it 
would have been in his interests to ensure this was accurate. Considering there had been 
previous errors made with Mr Ts graduation date, I can appreciate why he was frustrated 
that this error had occurred again. And I agree Mr T would have been inconvenienced 
having to provide further proof. But I can see that NatWest offered a further £100 for the 
trouble and upset caused and waived charges and interest totalling £115.26. But again, I feel 
this is reflective of the trouble and upset Mr T had experienced in this instance.
In November 2019, Mr T went over his overdraft and had unarranged overdraft fees applied. 
He spoke to an advisor and she explained he shouldn't have had charges applied as he had 
a student account. Those charges were refunded, and Mr T was put through to the 
complaints team. NatWest awarded Mr T £75 for this mistake. However later that month, Mr 
T received marketing from NatWest suggesting he could have had a choice in relation to the 
associated benefits. But this was not the case. At the time Mr T opened his student account 
this particular benefit was not available. So, I cant say NatWest has acted unreasonably by 
not offering Mr T that particular benefit as he was not eligible for it. But I do think its 
communication could have been clearer. NatWest has offered Mr T a further £150 for the 
inconvenience it caused. And as Mr T was never eligible for this benefit, I think this 
accurately reflects the inconvenience he experienced due to the incorrect information being 
provided.
I appreciate Mr T is looking for £2,000 for the trouble and upset he has experienced due to 
the service NatWest has provided over a two-year period. But having considered each incidence, Im satisfied NatWest address the matter and offered fair compensation at each 
stage. The service issues which have occurred, would certainly be frustrating and them 
continuing to happen would definitely amplify the inconvenience Mr T has experienced. But 
when looking at the overall awards that have been offered my NatWest, they are in line with 
what I would have offered having considered the overall service over a two-year period. So, I 
know this will be disappointing for Mr T, but I wont be asking NatWest to anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2020.
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman