DRN-4175300
The complaint
This complaint is about a new interest rate product Miss B and Mr B asked Connells Limited 
to arrange on their mortgage. Connells didnt carry out the task on time, leaving Miss B and 
Mr B with substantially higher mortgage costs for five years.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Miss B and Mr B and Connells. Im 
also aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which 
has been sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Miss B and Mr B being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words, 
rounding the figures, and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
Miss B and Mr B have a mortgage with a lender Ill call T. The mortgage was on a fixed rate 
of 1.44%, which was due to expire at the end of November 2022. The terms of that 
agreement were that if they left it before 30 November 2022, Miss B and Mr B would incur an 
early repayment charge (ERC) of around £3,200.
In August 2022, Connells arranged for T to issue an offer for a new five-year deal at 3.29%. 
This offer had an expiry date of 2 November 2022, so Miss B and Mr B would have paid an 
ERC if theyd taken it up. In September 2022, T introduced a policy allowing borrowers to 
pre-book a new deal up to three months ahead of taking it up. At this point, Ts five year 
fixed rate deal was at 3.49%. 
At the beginning of November 2022, Miss B and Mr B became aware that Connells hadnt 
taken any further action to confirm their new deal with T; the August offer had expired and 
Miss B and Mr B were facing the prospect of their mortgage going onto Ts standard variable 
rate (SVR) from 1 December 2022. 
When they complained; Connells said there was still time to take a new deal to avoid going 
on to SVR. However, Ts five-year rates was now at 5.99%. Miss B and Mr B didnt think 
they could afford to pay that, and were reluctant to commit to it without knowing at that stage 
if Connells would offer redress. They eventually took a new five-year rate of 4.34%, in 
March 2023. 
Connells did offer redress for its error; it agreed to pay the difference in interest between the 
3.29% rate and the 4.34% over the five-year period. It also offered to compensate Miss B 
and Mr B for the three-month period they were on SVR, refund the £99 arrangement fee, 
and pay compensation of £500 for their time, trouble and upset. In total, the redress package 
on offer totalled just under £12,500. Miss B and Mr B accepted it without prejudice and 
continued with the complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the settlement was a fair response on Connells part. Miss B and 
Mr B asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. They say that at the end of 
the five years on the 4.34% deal, their outstanding balance will be about £4,000 higher than 
it would have been on the 3.29% deal. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts.
 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us. Its for me to decide what the material issues are 
that will affect the eventual outcome. Its also my judgement on what evidence I need to see 
and consider, in order to reach a fair decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
This is not a complaint where I have to decide fault; Connells has accepted it is responsible 
for Miss B and Mr Bs financial position being worse than it should have been, and has paid 
redress for it. What that leaves for me to decide is whether Connells settlement is fair, or 
whether the circumstances require that it do more to make Miss B and Mr B whole. Having 
carefully considered everything that both parties have said and provided, I believe the 
current settlement is fair. Ill explain why.
Firstly, its entirely appropriate that Connells return the arrangement fee of £99, because 
Miss B and Mr B didnt receive the service the fee was intended to pay for. Meanwhile, the 
award of £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience is generally consistent with the 
level of award we generally make in broadly similar circumstances. 
The bulk of the award from Connells is a lump sum to offset the extra interest Miss B and 
Mr B have had to pay, and will continue to pay, because their mortgage is fixed at 4.34% 
rather than 3.29% until 2028. It also covers the three-month period they were on SVR, so the 
question of whether Miss B and Mr B failed to mitigate the impact of Connells error is moot.
 
What is also relevant here is that Connells used the 3.29% rate as the basis for its award, 
even though the offer at that rate would have expired before Miss B and Mr Bs existing deal 
was due to end. In other words, Connells has assumed Miss B and Mr B would have 
switched to the 3.29% deal whilst still liable for an ERC on their current deal, but hasnt 
deducted that ERC from its award. 
That leaves the sticking point for Miss B and Mr B, which is an argument, based on 
calculations they have carried out themselves, that at the end of the five years on the 4.34% 
deal, their outstanding balance will be about £4,000 higher than it would have been on the 
3.29% deal. 
Its not my role to audit the calculations forensically, but on first glance, its not apparent to 
me that the December 2022 starting balance in the tab for the 3.29% calculation includes the ERC Miss B and Mr B would have paid in order for the mortgage to have gone onto that rate. 
If it does not, then the calculation would need to be re-done, in one or other of two 
alternative methodologies. 
Either the starting balance has to have been to be around £3,200 higher than it is, or the 
interest rate would have to be 3.49% (the rate that would have been available to pre-book in 
September 2022 to take effect from 1 December 2022) rather than 3.29%. In either case, the 
resulting progression of the capital reduction over the five years would be dramatically 
different.
There may or may not be other anomalies in the calculations Miss B and Mr B have 
submitted that might come to light if they were subject to forensic audit by a suitably-qualified 
professional. But just the one I have highlighted above is enough for me to conclude that the 
calculations cannot be relied on when Im deciding the fairness or otherwise of Connells 
settlement.  
If Miss B and Mr B have a real and substantive belief (based on something other than their 
own calculations) that they face a further loss on the capital position in 2028, it is open to 
them to arrange for the calculations to be audited by a suitably qualified and independent 
party. 
The evidence of an audit could be used as the basis for a new complaint against Connells, 
but not as the basis for this one to be reopened. I make the latter point because Connells 
would need to be presented with the finished audit first, and be given the opportunity to 
consider and respond to it. 
Miss B and Mr B would have to meet the cost of the audit, albeit if errors were found that 
were to their detriment, we would then expect Connells to reimburse any reasonable cost of 
the audit as well as taking any corrective action the audit revealed to be necessary. But as 
things stand, the available evidence doesnt give me reason to think that Connells should 
pay more redress than it has already.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Miss B and Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman