DRN-4153867
The complaint
Mrs T and Mr T complain about the service provided by Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited 
when Mr C wanted to claim his pension benefits.
Since the complaint was made Mr C has passed away, so the estate is represented by his 
daughter and son-in-law Mrs T and Mr T.
Mr C, Mrs T and Mr T have been helped in the complaint by Mr Y, a family friend and Mr Cs 
tax adviser. 
What happened
Mr C had two pension policies with Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) 
administered by two different teams. The P plan valued at around £54,800, and the F 
plan (originally set up with Friends Life) valued at around £2,005. Mr C also had two other 
plans held with provider O valued at around £290,000, from which hed been taking 
monthly income for a number of years. 
Aviva wrote to Mr C a few months prior to his 75th birthday in July 2020, warning of his 
approaching retirement date and the impact on his options of turning 75 (the point at which 
pensions become fully taxable). At the time Mr C was quite unwell, receiving treatment for 
terminal cancer. Mr Cs wife was in a care home and his daughter Mrs T wasnt local and 
had family commitments, so Mr C asked his friend Mr Y for help.
Mr C gave Mr Y authority to discuss his pensions with Aviva. Mr Y had suggested to Aviva 
that Mr Cs two policies be merged, which together with funds he intended to transfer from O 
would provide Mr C with monthly income. Mr Y also sent Aviva Mr Cs expression of wish in 
favour of his daughter and a completed Lifetime Allowance (LTA) form. Mr Y informed 
Aviva that Mr Cs cancer diagnosis meant he wasnt expected to live past November, so 
finalising these arrangements was urgent. Things were additionally difficult due to 
communication constraints arising from the pandemic. 
On 11 June Aviva confirmed it had updated its records to show Mr Y as Mr Cs 
representative, and had received the letter of wishes. And the following day Aviva confirmed 
the P plan was rebate only (it had been set up to contract out of SERPS), so couldnt 
accept any transfers, and subsequently confirmed the plans couldnt be merged and neither 
could accept transfers in. 
On 29 June 2020 (a few days before Mr Cs 75th birthday) Mr Y told Aviva Mr C wanted to 
take the P policy into drawdown to enable it to be passed on to his daughter. Mr C himself 
spoke to Aviva to confirm his instructions regarding the P plan, and a retirement pack was 
issued the same day, based on the full policy value moving to an Aviva drawdown plan 
releasing no tax-free cash (TFC). Despite Mr Ys authority to speak to Aviva, Mr C still 
needed to sign the forms himself. Unfortunately by the time the forms were signed Mr C had 
already turned 75, so the P policy became taxable. 
A new quote and forms then had to be generated as in August Mr Y said Mr C now wished 
to release TFC prior to the policy being put into a drawdown plan, which Mr C confirmed on 
8 October 2020. Signing the forms was delayed as Mr Cs health had deteriorated. The P 
policy was eventually put into a drawdown plan from which Mr C could make withdrawals. 
It transpired the F plan could always have been taken tax-free, although a well- intentioned 
member of staff incorrectly thought it might be quicker to claim it under serious ill health 
(SIH) provision. This was eventually resolved and the full policy value of just under £2,000 
was paid to Mr C in September 2020. But Mr Y complained to Aviva, saying as soon as 
Aviva knew Mr C was terminally ill, he should have been able to take both policies as tax-
free lump sums through SIH provision. 
Aviva responded to Mr Cs complaint in October 2020 and apologised for the inconvenience 
caused to Mr C. Aviva said Mr C had been told in June 2020 that ill health claims are taxable 
at age 75. But instead of requesting to take the funds as a lump sum which wouldve been 
tax-free, Mr Y had requested a quote to move the fund into a drawdown plan. 
Aviva paid £500 to apologise for providing conflicting information about the F plan, inclusive 
of £3.42 late payment interest. And in relation to the P plan it admitted a training gap meant 
its staff didnt realise a SIH claim wasnt tax-free after age 75. So it paid £250 for this error 
(£750 in total). It also offered compensation of £100 each to Mr Y and Mrs T. And it clarified 
that the P plan proceeds would be paid to Mr Cs beneficiaries as a taxable lump sum, as a 
beneficiary drawdown plan wasnt possible. 
Mr Y complained again to Aviva in October 2020 that he and Mrs T hadnt received their 
£100 payments. He said Aviva knew the urgency of Mr Cs terminal illness, so shouldve said 
sooner that merging the policies wasnt possible and issued the correct claim forms without 
delay. 
Mr Y also raised a new complaint point in relation to a £25,000 withdrawal requested by Mr 
C, which resulted in additional tax liabilities for both Mr C and his estate. Aviva responded to 
these points but didnt think it was liable to refund the tax, although it did increase Mr Ys 
compensation to £120. 
Mr Y brought Mr Cs complaint to this service in March 2021, saying Avivas delays and 
inefficient service meant while the smaller (F) policy paid out tax-free, Mr C was forced to 
take a taxable drawdown on the larger (P) policy. To resolve things Mr Y said Aviva should 
unscramble everything, and enable Mr C to take the P plan tax-free on medical grounds, to 
minimise the future tax burden for his daughter Mrs T. And it should pay substantial 
compensation for the inefficient and insensitive way the claim process was handled, and that 
Aviva should reimburse the estate with £10,378 being the additional tax Mr C paid. 
In July 2021 this service was notified that Mr C had sadly passed away in May 2021. 
Progress was delayed until July 2022 when probate was in place, as our rules require 
evidence the representatives have the necessary legal powers to bring a complaint. Mrs T 
and Mr T (and Mr Y) represent the estate of Mr C. And Mrs T also complains in her own right 
as her fathers beneficiary, about her increased personal tax liability. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Based on the information provided 
she was satisfied Mr C had been told he could take the P plan as a tax-free lump sum under 
SIH prior to his 75th birthday, but instead Mr C and Mr Y both told Aviva Mr C wanted to put 
the funds into a drawdown plan so they could be easily passed on to his daughter. And while 
Mr C had been caused some inconvenience she thought the compensation of £750 already 
paid, and the £100 each offered to Mr Y and Mrs T was in line with what shed recommend. 
So she didnt think Aviva needed to do anything else to put things right.The family didnt accept this, saying Aviva hadnt taken sufficient account of the impact of Mr 
Cs terminal illness and treatment. And it was insensitive to have insisted on speaking to Mr 
C when he was so unwell. They still thought Aviva should have enabled Mr C to take the 
whole of the P policy tax-free under ill health from the outset. So they asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
Provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, as although Id come to the same overall conclusion as the 
investigator, since her view Aviva had provided recordings of several key calls with Mr Y and 
Mr C which hadnt been available to the investigator. 
I firstly offered my sincere condolences to Mr Cs family, who have undoubtedly been going 
through a very sad and difficult time. I completely understood their feelings of anger and 
distress. But having listened to the calls, I made the following findings (in summary):
Aviva wrote to Mr C two months ahead of his 75th birthday, this being a benefit 
crystallisation event whereby pension benefits are tested against the LTA. 
Aviva wasnt aware of Mr Cs terminal illness, until notified by Mr Y in May 2020. 
Mr C signed a letter of authority in favour of Mr Y in May, but this wasnt with Aviva 
until early June 2020.
Mr Y was acting as Mr Cs representative, but not his financial adviser so could 
obtain information on his behalf, but Aviva still had to take instructions direct from Mr 
C. 
Mr Ys letter to Aviva of 3 June 2020 set out what Mr C wanted to happen on or 
after the retirement date of 2 July 2020 suggesting he wasnt aware the benefits 
would be taxable after age 75.
Mr Y had been trying to arrange to combine all Mr Cs policies to generate a monthly 
income. As late as 29 June 2020 Mr Ys email said he was still hoping the firms could 
work together to facilitate the transfer of the O policies to Aviva. 
The situation was complicated by the P and F policies being administered by 
separate teams within Aviva which could only provide information about their policy. 
But it was confirmed to Mr Y in the 30 June 2020 call when he spoke to both teams 
that neither policy could accept transfers in. Firstly he was told the P policy being 
rebate-only couldnt accept transfers in, and then the Legacy team (which handled 
the ex-Friends Life policy) said the F policy could be transferred out, but couldnt 
accept transfers in. And then Mr Y was read the contents of an email from the 
Transfers-in team which confirmed the P policy couldnt accept transfers in. 
As combining the policies wasnt possible, Mr Y asked Aviva what could be done to 
enable Mr Cs daughter to access the policy under flexi-access drawdown. The agent 
explained taking the policy in cash would be taxable, and the SIH process wasnt 
relevant as Mr C was already over 55 (so able to access his pension benefits). He 
said the Retirement team would need to send quotes to Mr C. 
There was a warm handover to the Retirement team, passing on the information that 
Mr C was terminally ill and would be 75 in two days time. This team usually only 
speaks to the policy holder, but in the circumstances agreed to speak to Mr Y. Before 
Mr Y was put through, the agents discussed the tax position, and confirm that 
claiming the policy in cash under SIH would only be tax-free prior to 75.
Mr Y explained theyd intended to encash the F plan and transfer the funds from O to 
the P plan. But as he now understood the P plan couldnt accept transfers in, he was 
considering turning it on its head and exploring whether the F plan could accept 
transfers in from O. Which suggests hed forgotten the earlier conversation with the 
Legacy team where that question had been answered. The Retirement team agent confirmed encashing the P policy was one of Mr Cs 
options. Mr Y interjected that he knew he could also take flexi-access drawdown or 
an annuity, which wouldnt pay out much. And in any case Mr C was on borrowed 
time and unlikely to live past November. 
But the urgent focus was still on combining the policies and moving the funds into a 
drawdown plan with Aviva, rather than taking the policies in cash under SIH.
I understood Mr Y found having to deal with two separate departments frustrating, 
but I could see the two teams did their best to communicate with each other and to 
assist him.
The F plan
The F plan was structured so that it could always be taken tax-free.
SIH claims are usually more straightforward as they avoid some of the customer 
journey steps of a usual retirement claim, but wasnt necessary for the F plan. 
It was unfortunate a well-meaning member of staff inadvertently delayed and 
complicated matters by suggesting a SIH claim would be quicker. But this was 
resolved relatively quickly, and Mr C received the proceeds tax-free in September 
2020.
I was satisfied Aviva had made sure Mr C hadnt lost out financially by adding late 
payment interest. 
And I felt the £500 it paid to apologise for the impact of the delays and confusion 
caused to Mr C at such a difficult time was fair. 
The P Plan
Mr Y could have made a SIH claim on the P policy in May 2020, when he notified 
Aviva of Mr Cs terminal diagnosis. Had he done so I thought there wouldve been 
enough time for the claim to be paid tax-free prior to Mr Cs 75th birthday. 
Age 75 is significant in tax terms in relation to pension benefits. Usually 25% is tax-
free and 75% taxable, but post 75 there is no tax-free entitlement. SIH claims are 
usually paid totally free of tax, but this doesnt apply post-75.
Aviva has admitted to a knowledge gap in this regard, as not all its staff realised a 
SIH claim would be taxable once Mr C was 75. 
But Mr Y was told by the Retirement team on 30 June 2020 there would be a tax 
issue if the policy was paid out under SIH, as the funds are only tax-free below age 
75. So he knew any SIH claim had to be made prior to Mr Cs birthday.
Aviva made clear on several occasions it couldnt provide Mr C (or Mr Y on his 
behalf) with advice, only information or responses to specific queries. 
Mr Ys role was to obtain information and assist Mr C as he was so ill, he couldnt 
give instructions on Mr Cs behalf. 
Mr Y explained Mr C wanted to ensure the money goes to his daughter, either in 
cash or within a pension. He asked what forms needed to be completed, and whether 
Mr C would pay tax or not. The call handler said he could only provide information 
not advice.
The call handler went through the procedure for taking benefits from a policy. Some 
of the usual warnings and questions were irrelevant in light of Mr Cs terminal 
diagnosis. But I thought Avivas staff were constrained by the regulatory 
requirements for taking pension benefits, and the call would be non-compliant if they 
skipped any of the steps or questions. 
Mr Y confirmed Mr C wished to move the plan into flexi-drawdown, he didnt ask to 
encash the plan. Aviva explained the initial withdrawal would be taxed at the 
emergency rate, and theyd send a form P45 to enable HMRC to make any 
adjustments. The drawdown fund would remain invested, from which Mr C could withdraw flexible 
amounts until the value was eroded, and any remainder would be paid out to his 
estate or beneficiaries. Mr Y was told that as Mr C was over 75 hed be liable for tax. 
I understood why the family felt it was unkind and intrusive, but despite Mr Cs severe 
ill health I thought it was reasonable of Aviva to insist on speaking to him direct to 
confirm his instructions. And Mr Y appeared to accept this, just asking for the 
paperwork to be sent to him.
I had no doubt Mr Y (who wasnt in the best of health himself) only wished to assist 
his friend, but Aviva had a duty to act in Mr Cs best interests. His age and health put 
him in the category of a vulnerable consumer, potentially open to abuse, coercion, or 
manipulation. Aviva had seen no medical evidence of Mr Cs ill health, and Mr Y had 
provided some information in confidence, which meant it couldnt be confirmed. 
Mr Y had explained Mr Cs illness and medication affected his mood, concentration, 
and hearing. But he said Mr C was an intelligent man and would be able to 
understand, so Aviva had no reason to think he lacked mental capacity. 
From listening to the 30 June 2020 phone call between Aviva and Mr C he appeared 
fully engaged in the conversation, asking relevant questions, and seeking clarification 
on particular points.
But Mr C didnt ask to encash the P policy, instead he chose drawdown, confirming 
hed received and read the Your Retirement Options booklet and said the 
drawdown situation suits us best.
Aviva explained with drawdown the funds would remain invested, so the normal risks 
around market volatility applied. 
To the call handlers surprise Mr C said he wanted the policy to be all in, he didnt 
want to take any tax-free cash. So the call handler sought confirmation he wanted the 
full amount plus any final bonus to be taken out of the main pension pot and put into 
drawdown, and Mr C said he did. 
Mr C was given a few regulatory risk warnings (around fraud and scams, MPAA and 
the impact on means-tested benefits). 
Mr C had stressed the urgency, so the Retirement team agreed to send the relevant 
quotation forms (based on the no TFC option) to Mr Y by the end of the week (30 
June was Tuesday). Mr C then had to sign the forms himself, and return them with an 
acceptable form of identification, but was reassured when Aviva said returning them 
a bit late wouldnt be a problem. 
Avivas email to Mr Y of 29 June stressed the forms needed to be completed before 
Mr C turned 75. 
Aviva sent the relevant forms to Mr Y at 9.15am on 2 July explaining how to open 
them and offering to fax copies if easier. But the forms would need to have been 
completed and signed the same day. This would have been very tight particularly as 
Mr C was so unwell. 
But Mr Y didnt forward the forms to Mrs T until 6 July, asking her to print them out 
and arrange for them to be signed by Mr C. The completed forms were returned to 
Aviva on 13 July 2020, but as this was after Mr C turned 75 the policy was taxable.  
So Mr C decided to take the 25% TFC after all, which required a new quote and new 
forms to be signed. 
Mr C was very unwell by this point, communicating with him direct was difficult and 
he required support. His family members and Mr Y were both unable to visit him, 
which further delayed progress. 
Tax impacts
I said whatever option Mr C had chosen, there was no way to avoid tax completely, 
hed pay it, or his estate would. On receipt of the retirement pack in April 2020, Mr C could have claimed the P policy 
under SIH before turning 75, which would have been paid to him tax-free. But the 
funds would no longer be outside his estate for IHT.
He could also have taken benefits from the P policy before turning 75, of which 25% 
would be tax-free and the rest taxable. 
After releasing TFC he could have transferred into a drawdown plan for his daughter 
to inherit, which would be outside his estate for IHT purposes. 
But Mr C told Aviva he wanted the policy to be all-in he didnt want to take 25% 
TFC, so the retirement quote was issued on that basis.
Policy F could always have been encashed free of tax regardless of ill health, but any 
unspent funds in Mr Cs bank account would then form part of his estate for IHT 
purposes
Similarly for Policy P in drawdown, Mr C was clearly told that money withdrawn from 
the plan but unspent would form part of his estate and subject to IHT, but anything 
remaining in the pension would be outside his estate.
Finally I said any queries about overpaid tax should be addressed through HMRC.
I recognised and sympathised with the horrible experience Mr Cs family had been through. 
But I couldnt hold Aviva responsible for the benefits of the P policy not being taken prior to 
Mr C turning 75. It wasnt responsible for delays caused by the abortive attempts to merge 
the policies and transfer in funds from O to produce an income, which was still being 
pursued as late as 29 June 2020. I acknowledged Aviva could have stressed the 
implications of delaying until Mr C was 75, and the knowledge gap around the tax treatment 
of SIH claims post 75. But I couldnt fairly say Aviva shouldve over-ruled Mr Cs clearly 
expressed wish to arrange his pensions so they could most easily be passed on to his 
daughter, and claimed policy P under SIH.
Aviva had paid a total of £750 to Mr C and offered £100 to Mrs T which I thought was fair. I 
didnt think Aviva should cover the additional tax or pay any additional compensation to Mr 
Cs estate or Mrs T personally. And while Aviva had offered to pay Mr Y £120, I explained I 
dont have the power to award compensation to a consumers representative. So overall I 
said the compensation offered by Aviva was sufficient to put things right. 
Responses to the provisional decision
Neither party responded to the provisional decision, so I have no new information or 
evidence to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This was a very emotive case, and Im sorry its taken so long to reach this point. Dealing 
with financial matters when a family member is seriously or terminally ill is stressful and 
distressing. And I understand why on reflection Mr Cs family may have welcomed Aviva 
stepping in and arranging a SIH claim, (for policy P) from the outset. 
Aviva had given Mr C two months notice of the need to take decisions about his pensions 
prior to turning 75. Once Aviva had Mr Cs authority to discuss the policies with Mr Y he 
explained the intention of merging the policies to provide an income. Taking the policies as 
lump sums wasnt mentioned. Mr Y says Aviva should have let him know sooner that it wouldnt be possible to merge the 
policies or accept transfers in. Answering this was complicated by the two policies being 
administered separately and structured differently, so one team couldnt comment on both 
policies. But Mr Y was told by email on 12 June the P plan couldnt accept transfers in, and it 
was confirmed in one of the 30 June calls that the policies couldnt be merged, and neither 
could accept transfers in. But on receipt of that information, instead of instigating the claim 
process to take the policy as a lump sum, Mr Y asked about a drawdown plan which could 
pass to Mr Cs daughter. 
While the process wasnt joined up, Im satisfied the various teams within Aviva tried to work 
together to assist Mr Y and Mr C. And they were mindful of the sensitivity around dealing 
with a terminally ill customer, and the urgency of the situation. 
Mr Y and Mr Cs family understandably wanted to shelter Mr C from the administrative 
burden as much as possible. Mr Cs illness and treatment affected his mood, hearing and 
resilience, meaning communication was difficult and he needed support to complete the 
forms. But the timing was unfortunate as the pandemic-related restrictions meant family 
visits were difficult, especially as Mr C needed to be protected from infection risk. I 
understood the family felt it was unnecessarily intrusive of Aviva to speak to Mr C when he 
was so unwell. But in my provisional decision I explained Avivas duty to ensure they were 
acting in the best interests of a vulnerable consumer, meant it was reasonable to insist on 
taking instructions from Mr C himself. 
Mr Y was made aware of the tax implication of Mr C turning 75, but merging the policies to 
provide an income was being pursued as late as two days prior to Mr Cs 75th birthday. 
Meaning valuable time was taken, and meeting the 2 July deadline was very tight. In his own 
words Mr Y was juggling lots of paperwork and was trying to keep Mr C and Mrs T updated 
on what was happening, so I think he overlooked the significance of Mr Cs 75th birthday on 
his tax position. 
Ive explained it wasnt possible to avoid tax altogether. Leaving policy F aside which was 
claimed tax-free, the whole of policy P became taxable when Mr C turned 75. If hed taken 
benefits prior to 75 Mr C wouldve been entitled to 25% TFC, but any withdrawals from a 
drawdown plan would be taxable, although the remaining balance would be outside of his 
estate for IHT purposes. But if Mr C had encashed the policy tax-free under SIH, any 
remaining unspent funds would no longer be outside his estate for IHT purposes. Its not 
possible to have it both ways and encash a policy tax-free and then reinvest the proceeds in 
a drawdown plan to retain the IHT advantage. 
From reviewing the file again, Im satisfied neither Mr Y or Mr C requested a SIH claim for 
policy P, as the priority was ensuring the pension was passed to Mr Cs daughter outside of 
his estate. I dont agree Aviva shouldve acted against Mr Cs wishes and instigated a SIH 
claim rather than follow his drawdown instructions. So I dont find Aviva should refund any 
additional tax Mr C or Mrs T are liable for. 
I remain of the view the £750 compensation paid to Mr C, and the £100 offered to Mrs T 
were fair. Its not clear if Mrs T has received her compensation, so Aviva should pay it if not 
already done so. Ive already explained why I cant award compensation to Mr Y as Mr Cs 
representative. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense Aviva Life & Pensions Limited Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T 
and the estate of Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman