DRN-3194713
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with how Topaz Finance Limited, trading as Rosinca Mortgages, 
administered their request for a mortgage payment holiday.
What happened
On 6 May 2020, Mr and Mrs L told Rosinca Mortgages that they wished to take advantage of 
a three-month payment holiday for their mortgage accounts  beginning in June. Theyd 
already discussed the proposal with Rosinca Mortgages, and decided they were happy to go 
ahead. But the payment holiday wasnt processed, and Junes payments were collected as 
usual.
When Mr and Mrs L queried why payments had been taken, Rosinca Mortgages 
acknowledged its mistake. It said the payment holiday hadnt been properly processed 
because the confirmation email that Mr and Mrs L had sent was missed by its staff. As a 
resolution, Rosinca Mortgages said it would refund the payments and backdate the payment 
holiday.
 
The payments were refunded relatively quickly, but Rosinca Mortgages made some 
administration errors when it attempted to amend and backdate the payment holiday. These 
errors resulted in some incorrect information being reported to Mr and Mrs Ls credit files. 
Specifically, that their mortgage accounts were shown to be in arrears for the month of June. 
These problems didnt come to light immediately. Mr L checked his credit file in July and 
spotted that Rosinca Mortgages was reporting incorrect information, so he complained. The 
complaint was upheld. Rosinca Mortgages sent its final response on 17 September, it 
apologised for the poor service and set out that the necessary amendments had been made 
to Mr and Mrs Ls credit files. Rosinca Mortgages offered Mr and Mrs L £200 to compensate 
them for the issues theyd experienced.
 
Despite the assurances from Rosinca Mortgages, when Mr L checked his credit file again, 
some incorrect information was still being reported. So, he complained again. 
Rosinca Mortgages sent a further response on 12 November. It recognised that one 
mortgage account hadnt been properly updated, but that it had rectified the issue 
immediately once it was aware. Rosinca Mortgages also increased its offer of compensation 
to £250.
 
Mr and Mrs L remained unhappy, so they brought their complaint to our service. They said 
that they had incurred costs in keeping up to date with their credit files  checking regularly 
to make sure Rosinca Mortgages had reported things correctly. Moreover, Mr and Mrs L said 
they believed the errors made by Rosinca Mortgages had impacted their ability to secure 
some government-backed funding for their business during the coronavirus pandemic. They 
said they had applied for a business current account with two banks so they could go on to 
apply for a Bounce Back Loan, but their applications had been declined.
 
Mr L also set out that, while the issues with Rosinca Mortgages were ongoing, his personal 
credit card limit  and the credit limit of a separate business credit card  had both been 
reduced following a review carried out by his bank. Mr L believed the bank made this 
decision because of the information Rosinca Mortgages was reporting to his credit file at the 
time.
 
An investigator here reviewed what happened, she didnt think Rosinca Mortgages had done 
enough to put things right. The investigator acknowledged that the issues had eventually 
been sorted out, and that Mr and Mrs L had ultimately been successful in obtaining a 
Bounce Back Loan, but said that the errors made by Rosinca Mortgages likely contributed to 
Mr and Mrs Ls initial applications for a business current account being declined. Although, 
she couldnt know this for certain.
The investigator also said that the errors made by Rosinca Mortgages could have impacted 
the decision from Mr Ls bank to reduce his personal credit card limit  and that of his 
business credit card. But she explained that banks can carry out a review at any time, and 
she didnt know for certain that the banks decision to review the two credit cards could be 
linked to the mistakes.
 
To put things right, our investigator felt Rosinca Mortgages should increase its offer of 
compensation to £450 overall.
 
Mr and Mrs L took some time to think about what the investigator had said, and they decided 
to ask for an ombudsmans decision. They didnt think the amount of compensation offered 
was enough to reflect the level of stress and worry that Rosinca Mortgages had caused, or 
the time and money theyd had to spend checking their credit files to ensure things were 
reported correctly.
 
So, as an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I think it would be useful to reflect on the role of this service. In response to our 
investigator, Mr and Mrs L have said that they dont agree with the level of compensation 
theyve been offered. Put simply, they feel Rosinca Mortgages have got off lightly. While I 
understand Mr and Mrs Ls point of view, its important for me to explain that this service isnt 
intended to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct. So, any compensation award 
our service might make isnt meant to reprimand Rosinca Mortgages or act as a fine.
Turning to the matter at hand, the background to this complaint isnt in dispute, 
Rosinca Mortgages accepts that something went wrong here.
 
Mr and Mrs L had to do more than shouldve been necessary to get things back on track, 
and I can certainly understand the frustration and worry they wouldve experienced at the 
time. Moreover, I can see why they feel the errors Rosinca Mortgages made contributed to 
them not being able to open a business current account  and to the impact on Mr Ls line of 
credit with his personal and business credit cards.
 
Our investigator suggested that it is possible for Rosinca Mortgages errors to have impacted 
Mr and Mrs Ls business current account application, and to have contributed to the 
reduction in credit card limits. But, equally, the investigator also explained that theres no sure evidence to show it was the ultimate reason behind the banks decisions. And I think 
thats key here. It is entirely possible that the information being reported by 
Rosinca Mortgages was taken into consideration by the bank  but theres no conclusive 
evidence to show thats what caused the issues Mr and Mrs L experienced with their 
business current account applications and reduction in credit limits.
  
It would be unhelpful of me to speculate, so I wont go into various potential explanations, 
but there could be several reasons why Mr and Mrs Ls applications for a business current 
account werent successful and the credit card limits were reduced. And, in the absence of 
sufficient evidence, I dont think it would be fair of me to conclude that Rosinca Mortgages 
error was the definitive cause of what happened.
I do accept, though, that Rosinca Mortgages shouldve rectified things correctly in the first 
instance. I think the experience has taken its toll on Mr and Mrs L, and I can surely 
understand if its damaged their trust in Rosinca Mortgages ability to administer things 
properly. It shouldnt have been necessary for Mr and Mrs L to have to put much time into 
trying to resolve things  or needing to continuously check their credit files to make sure the 
information being reported was correct.
 
To that end, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs L did suffer distress and inconvenience. And I think the 
increased offer of £450 is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation to reflect the time 
and effort they had to put in to make sure Rosinca Mortgages fixed its mistakes. So, thats 
what I require Rosinca Mortgages to pay Mr and Mrs L to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Topaz Finance Limited, trading 
as Rosinca Mortgages, to pay Mr and Mrs L a total of £450 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman