DRN-1305214
 
The complaint
Mrs G says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs G bought the policy in 1996 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities - that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs G says PPI wasn't discussed when she applied for her credit card, and that she 
didn't know it had been added to her account. She also says she didn't tick the box to 
say she wanted the cover, and that this must've been added after she'd signed the 
form. I've noted everything Mrs G has said. The difficulty I have is that I can't be sure 
what was discussed between Mrs G and Barclaycard when the policy was sold. I'm 
also mindful that these events took place over twenty years ago, and that exact 
recollections of what happened can fade over time. I can see there was a box directly 
underneath the box that was ticked that could've been completed if Mrs G didn't want 
the PPI. I think it's unlikely the form would've been completed without some 
discussion about the PPI, because it seems a choice had to be made about whether 
or not to buy it. Without anything else to support what Mrs G has told me, I don't think 
it would be fair or reasonable for me to say that Barclaycard didn't make Mrs G 
aware the policy was optional.   
Barclaycard recommended the PPI to Mrs G, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable 
for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Mrs G says she 
was entitled to sick pay from her employer if she couldnt work, and that she had 
some savings. But I understand that Mrs G's savings were earmarked for a property 
she wanted to buy. So I can't be sure that the money would've been available to her 
if she'd needed it in the future. In addition, the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to 
Mrs Gs employer benefits and wouldve been useful to her if she couldnt work. So I 
think Mrs G wouldve had some use for the policy, despite her existing arrangements.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But its unlikely Mrs G would have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
 
Mrs G mentions there were two sections on the application form that needed a signature - 
one for the overall credit card agreement, and another in connection with (amongst other 
things) the PPI. Mrs G points out that she didn't sign the section that she considers relates to 
the PPI. I've thought carefully about everything Mrs G has said.
I can see the point Mrs G is making, but I'm not persuaded that the second signature box 
was only for the purpose of accepting the items listed on the page in question - which 
included the PPI. 
Both signature boxes included the wording:
'This is a Credit Agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Sign it only if you 
want to be legally bound by it.'
So it seems to me that a signature in either box indicated acceptance of the overall credit 
agreement. I'm not persuaded that customers had to sign the second box to indicate 
separate acceptance of the PPI and the other items included on that page of the agreement.
So this point doesn't change my overall conclusions about the case.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman