DRN-2855266
The complaint
Mr N says Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy lent to him irresponsibly. He says that he 
was in a bad financial situation to start with and he says the loans made this worse. This led 
to him taking out further loans and affected his ability to pay his bills. 
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Savvy provided to Mr N in January 2019. Mr N 
borrowed £1,500. He was due to make 15 monthly repayments of £133.33. I understand 
Mr N hasnt been able to fully repay this loan. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought the checks that Savvy made were 
proportionate. He didnt disagree that Mr N had some other debt, but Savvy had largely 
accounted for this in the application process. And this seemed reasonable. 
Mr N disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He said that Savvy shouldve gone through 
his bank statements and credit file to find out about his other lending. If it had done this, it 
wouldnt have lent to him. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Broadly 
speaking, this all means that Savvy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to make 
sure Mr N could repay their loans in a sustainable manner. Additionally, there may come a 
point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the 
lending was unsustainable.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons. Ive decided not to uphold 
Mr Ns complaint and Ive explained why below.
Ive seen a record of the information Mr N provided when he completed his loan application. 
Mr N said he had a monthly income of about £3,000. And Savvy has recorded that he had 
regular monthly outgoings of about £2,480. So, it would been reasonable to say that Mr N 
could afford the loan repayments given this information.  
The crux of Mr Ns objection to the lending is that he feels Savvy should have made more in-
depth checks. Had it done this, it wouldve seen he was in financial difficulty. 
Savvy did ask Mr N some questions about his income and expenditure. And it also looked at 
his credit file. It also spoke to Mr N about the other debt it had seen in his credit checks and 
adjusted his expenditure figure accordingly. And it verified his income with a payslip. 
I think this was a fairly detailed and proportionate check, thinking about the circumstances of 
this case. Given the amounts borrowed against Mr Ns income, and that that it was he first 
loan, I dont think its reasonable to say Savvy should have looked into his finances in more 
detail than it already had done. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Savvy was made aware of any 
financial problems Mr N mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate Mr Ns circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Savvy to rely on 
the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Savvy did for this loan were 
proportionate. And I think its decision to lend was reasonable. Im not upholding Mr Ns 
complaint about it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman