DRN-3758902
The complaint
Miss I complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) irresponsibly 
provided her a hire purchase agreement which wasnt affordable.
What happened
In February 2016, Miss I acquired a new car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
VWFS. An advance payment of £1,700 was made and Miss I was required to make 48 
monthly repayments of around £155 followed by a final payment of around £5,378. The total 
repayable under the agreement was around £14,513.
The agreement was voluntarily terminated in September 2019, but an outstanding balance 
remained.
Miss I raised a complaint about irresponsible lending. This was investigated by our 
adjudicator and upheld. VWFS accepted the investigators view upholding the complaint and 
also offered to refund the excess mileage charges that had been previously applied. After 
discussion about the settlement offer both parties agreed to the following settlement:
Refund the deposit, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement.
Pay a rebate (based on the difference between the rentals paid by Miss I and a fair 
usage amount) of £2,010.36 (44 x £45.69) adding 8% interest where applicable; 
Refund the excess mileage charge inclusive of 8% interest totalling £449.56 (which 
had already happened);
Remove adverse information from Miss Is credit file; and
Provide a certificate showing the tax paid on the refund as Miss I had requested one.
Following the refund being processed, Miss I challenged the amounts as she didnt think the 
deposit had been refunded. VWFS provided evidence to show that of the £1,700 deposit 
recorded in the agreement, £1,400 was dealer contribution. Miss I said that her previous car 
had been part exchanged and that this was the deposit amount.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I noted that as our adjudicator had upheld 
Miss Is complaint about irresponsible lending and VWFS accepted this, I didnt revisit that 
aspect of the complaint. Likewise, the redress recommendations were accepted by both 
parties including the refund of the deposit which I found reasonable. 
While the principle of the deposit refund was agreed, the outstanding dispute was about how 
much Miss I paid as a deposit and as such would how much should be refunded. Therefore, 
my provisional decision considered what amount I thought VWFS was required to refund to 
resolve this complaint. I considered the following factors in making my decision:
The hire purchase agreement included an amount of £1,700 as an advance payment. 
Of the total, £300 was recorded as a cash contribution and I understood this had 
been accepted as being refundable to Miss I. 
Miss I said that the remaining £1,400 was the part exchange value of her previous 
car. If this was the case, I said we would expect the full amount of £1,700 to be 
considered as the deposit paid by Miss I and therefore refunded along with the 
interest. However, VWFS said that £1,400 of the advance payment was dealer 
contribution and therefore not paid by Miss I.
VWFS provided a screenshot of the transaction recording a £300 cash deposit and a 
£1,400 dealer contribution. The screenshot recorded a zero against the box for a part 
exchange and the other information in the screenshot correlated with the agreement. 
A copy of the dealer invoice also recorded the cash deposit of £300 and made no 
reference to a part exchange. 
VWFS said it searched its records and the dealer had done the same and it had no 
record of Miss Is previous vehicle being within its network.
Miss I contacted the DVLA about her previous vehicle. The information provided 
confirmed the car was sold on 3 March 2016. Miss I provided copies of her bank 
statements from the time and these did not show an entry for sales proceeds from 
the car.
In this case, I thought that VWFS had carried out reasonable checks to identify whether 
Miss Is previous vehicle was part exchanged as part of her agreement. It hadnt been able 
to find any evidence of this and instead had evidence to suggest a dealer contribution was 
made. So, on balance, I found the evidence supported the £1,400 being a dealer 
contribution and Miss I making a £300 cash payment. Therefore, I found the deposit amount 
paid by Miss I was more likely than not £300 and as such this was the amount that should be 
included in the refund.
Miss I responded to my provisional decision. She provided a further timeline of events and 
documentation (some of which was duplication of documents already received). She said on 
5 February 2016 the agreement was drawn up and she provided a copy of her bank 
statement and the log book for her existing car. The agreement was signed on 8 February 
and she collected her new car on 11 February. On the same day she collected her new car a 
MOT was carried out on her existing car which she says suggested the dealership had taken 
ownership of the existing car at that time. She said she had since visited the dealership that 
sold the car along with her documents and reviewed the documents including VWFS 
screenshot and says the adviser thought the screenshot may be at odds with what had 
happened. Miss I said the first time she was made aware of the dealer contribution was 
when her refund was being discussed and not in the sales process. 
Miss I also disputed the rate at which statutory interest was applied. She said the interest on 
the credit card payment she made was higher than the 8% simple applied in the redress. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.When assessing a complaint, I take all evidence into account and in cases where the 
evidence is incomplete or contradictory, as is this case in this complaint, I make my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I consider most likely to have happened 
given the information provided and any wider circumstances.
As set out in my provisional decision both parties accepted our adjudicators view upholding 
Miss Is complaint and the redress was also agreed, including the refund of the deposit. The 
remaining dispute relates to the amount of the deposit that should be refunded. 
I have looked at the additional information Miss I has provided alongside the evidence I had 
previously received. It isnt disputed that an advance payment of £1,700 was made. This is 
set out in the hire purchase agreement and neither party has challenged this. Likewise, there 
is no dispute that Miss I made a payment of £300 as a deposit. She has evidenced this 
through her credit card statement and this is recorded as being paid on the dealer invoice.
The outstanding issue relates to the remaining £1,400 of the advance payment. The dealer 
invoice says this is due from Miss I. I have no evidence that she made this payment directly. 
The screenshot provided by VWFS records the £300 cash deposit and records £1,400 as a 
dealer contribution. VWFS has also said searches of its network didnt show the car Miss I 
says she part exchanged as being sold within its network. Against this, Miss I has provided a 
copy of her agreement with a handwritten note referring to a bank statement and log book 
being provided which could suggest a discussion about part exchanging her car. She has 
also provided evidence that the car was sold in early March 2016 and that an MOT was 
undertaken on the car the same day she collected her new car (even though the MOT wasnt 
due until July 2016). 
On balance, having considered all of the evidence provided, while I accept that Miss Is 
existing car was MOTed and sold around the time she collected her new car, I do not find 
that the evidence she has provided is enough to say the car was part exchanged as part of 
the VWFS transaction. I say this because I have given weight to the screenshot provided by 
VWFS and the fact that there is no mention of a part exchange having taken place. So, while 
I know this will be disappointing to Miss I, on balance, I do not find I have enough to change 
my conclusion from my provisional decision that the deposit to be refunded is the £300. 
I have also considered Miss Is comments about the interest rate applied to the refund. While 
I understand the point she has made, I think in this case the interest rate applied is fair. I say 
this because although Miss I paid the £300 deposit on her credit card, she could then have 
repaid this amount to reduce her costs. While I cannot say exactly what the cost of this 
payment will have been over the duration from payment to settlement, I think the usual 
approach of applying 8% simple interest is reasonable. 
Putting things right
My provisional decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, should, as it has
agreed (and to the extent this hasnt already happened):
Refund the deposit of £300, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
Pay a rebate of £2,010.36 (44 x £45.69) adding 8% simple interest per year* where 
applicable;
Refund the excess mileage charge inclusive of 8% simple interest per year*;
Remove adverse information recorded on Miss Is credit file; and
Provide a certificate showing the tax paid on the refund as Miss I has requested one.*HM Revenue & Customs requires VWFS to take off tax from this interest. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman