DRN-2966265
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society processed his credit card payment 
incorrectly and gave him poor customer service.
What happened
Mr S attempted to make a debit card payment for his credit card. Mr S says he repeated the 
correct amount twice to the call handler and she confirmed the correct amount. But when 
she confirmed payment had been taken, she confirmed a different amount to what Mr S had 
told her.
Mr S asked the call handler to take the extra payment from him on the call. The call handler 
said she couldnt do that and Mr S would have to call back on another day to do this. Mr S 
says he had already been hung up on three times prior to the call so he reiterated that the 
extra payment needed to be taken on the call. The call handler placed him on hold so she 
could check with her supervisor how to resolve the issue.
The call handler told Mr S that they had been able to cancel the original payment and would 
process a new payment for the correct amount, which she did. Mr S says he was sceptical of 
this as he was given an authorisation code for the first payment so he wasnt sure this would 
be cancelled. Mr S also spoke with the call handlers supervisor who confirmed the original 
payment was cancelled. When Mr S spoke with a different department the following day, Mr 
S says Nationwide informed him that both payments had been taken. Mr S raised a 
complaint with Nationwide. He said he felt lied to and that Nationwide were disinterested in 
his concerns. He also said he had to speak to different departments to get the issue 
investigated.
Nationwide offered £125 compensation and an apology. They explained that although they 
couldnt agree that the original call handler was disinterested, they did think she was 
condescending to Mr S once on the call. They also explained that the payment had been 
correctly cancelled so it would never have left his account, even though it was showing as a 
pending transaction.
Nationwide said that while the original call handler correctly advised that the payment 
wouldnt be collected, they believed the confusion could have been avoided if theyd clarified 
the pending payment status. Nationwide said that they had followed their process and within 
two days a manager had contacted Mr S to say that the original payment was no longer 
pending. They said that Mr S was not guaranteed a call back from a manager and that this 
would only have been done if one of the departments hed contacted not been looking into 
his complaint for him. Mr S brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. He said the compensation that Nationwide 
offered was fair and reasonable. Our investigator explained that Mr S wasnt financially 
disadvantaged by what had happened  but if he would have been, or his credit file had 
been affected then Nationwide told him they would have rectified this. Mr S asked for an 
Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained to Mr S, the call recordings are not available here. So while 
they would have given an indication of exactly what and how things were said, I wont be 
able to rely on this here. Ive thought about what Mr S has said about him feeling that 
Nationwide lied to him. But Im not persuaded on the balance of probabilities that this 
happened and Ill explain why.
The Nationwide call handler admitted that she made an error by processing an incorrect 
account. And Nationwide have said that the call handler was trying to explain to Mr S that 
the extra payment would need to be taken another day. But because of Mr Ss experience of 
dealing with Nationwide earlier on, the call handler took the extra step of speaking to her 
supervisor to see how this could be resolved albeit after initially informing Mr S that he would 
need to ring back another day. So I think this shows the call handler has been honest with 
Mr S, by firstly admitting her mistake and secondly by trying to see if there is anything else 
which could be done for Mr S.
The call handler then confirmed that she had cancelled the original payment and her 
supervisor confirmed this. Nationwide confirmed that this process was followed correctly. Im 
satisfied its the next step which was missing  the explanation that this would show as a 
pending payment until it dropped off his account in up to seven days time. But Im not 
persuaded that Mr S was told lies here as the call handler had admitted her mistake and 
cancelled the incorrect payment.
Im satisfied that Mr S did receive poor customer service though as both parties agree here. 
So what I would expect Nationwide to do here is to apologise, explain what went wrong and 
to recognise the impact that the poor customer service will have had on Mr S. 
Nationwide did apologise to Mr S and they explained what had went wrong. They also say 
that Mr S accepted their offer of compensation of £125. I know Mr S feels strongly that this 
level of compensation is not enough. And their error could have impacted him much more if 
his circumstances were different. But I can only consider what did happen here and not what 
might have happened. 
Im satisfied that the £125 that Nationwide said they paid Mr S was fair and reasonable. I say 
this because Mr S had undoubtedly been inconvenienced through no fault of his own. It 
would be distressing for Mr S to be told the following day that both payments had left his 
account, when they had both came off his available balance and one had been cancelled. 
But the impact of this would have been limited. I say this because Mr S was told two days 
after his original call that the first payment was no longer showing as pending. The 
compensation that Nationwide said they paid Mr S would have been broadly the amount I 
would have awarded him if Nationwide did not uphold his complaint. Im persuaded that the 
payment was fair and reasonable. So it follows I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman