DRN-2758935
The complaint
Mr R complains that Wesleyan Financial Services Ltd (Wesleyan) have applied incorrect 
charges to his personal pension plan.
 
What happened
Mr R says hes been trying for some time to get information from Wesleyan about the 
charges which apply to his personal pension plan. He feels he mayve been charged 
incorrectly in the following three areas:
annual management charge (AMC)
ongoing advice charge (OAC) and 
initial advice charge (IAC).
In their final response and follow up letters, Wesleyan confirmed that Mr R was being 
charged the correct AMC for his plan. But they noted that his 2019 annual statement had 
incorrectly shown that years AMC without some of the rebates he was entitled to. They 
noted that their actuaries had confirmed the error had only appeared in the statement. And 
that the correct level of charges had actually been applied to his plan. They acknowledged 
the statement error and offered £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Wesleyan noted that Mr R had never paid any amounts in respect of OAC. 
Wesleyan also noted that the IAC had been applied correctly. And that a previous complaint 
about this had been considered and closed in 2013. They noted that as such, this part of the 
complaint now fell outside of this services jurisdiction.
Unhappy with their response, Mr R brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold it. She didnt think that Wesleyan had made any errors with the amounts 
actually charged. She considered that the £75 theyd offered due to the annual statement 
being incorrect was fair.  
Mr R didnt agree. So his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at all of the information, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Before I go any further, I think its important to note that I recognise Mr Rs strength of feeling 
about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to support his complaint, which Ive 
read and considered carefully. However, my findings mainly focus on what I consider to be 
the central issues. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr R and Wesleyan. 
And reach what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of 
the case. 
Ill first look at whether Mr R has been overcharged through the AMC. 
Was the AMC correctly charged?
I note that the Key Features Document from 2007 explained what the charges would be. It 
said: The AMC that applies to this plan is 1.00% per year, reducing to 0.90% per year if the 
fund size is £50,000 or more. An AMC of 1.00% per year is deducted daily from the 
investment funds. If the fund size is £50,000 of more then this is reduced to 0.90% by adding 
units worth 0.1% per year to the plan on a monthly basis.  
Effective from 1 January 2013 Wesleyan changed its charging structure for its investment 
funds to comply with the Retail Distribution Review (RDR) initiated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Wesleyan informed Mr R of the changes. The review led to a reduction in 
charges. So Mr R has had lower charges for the amounts hes put into his personal pension 
plan since 1 January 2013.
In summary, the charging structure is now as follows:
amounts received on or before 31 December 2012: 1.0% per year, reducing to 0.9% 
per year if the fund size is £50,000 or more (pre RDR) 
amounts received on or after 1 January 2013: 0.50% per year, reducing to 0.4% per 
year if the fund size is £50,000 or more (post RDR)
Wesleyans actuaries have confirmed that Mr Rs personal pension plan is made up of three 
slices:
Slice one received annual contributions from 2002 to 2009 and was pre RDR
Slice two received a single contribution in January 2013 and was post RDR
Slice three received a total of three contributions between 2017 and 2019 and was 
post RDR
They confirmed that all three slices have the 1.0% AMC deducted through the unit price. The 
fund is bigger than £50,000. So all three slices get a rebate. Slice one receives a rebate 
worth 0.1%. And the other two slices receive rebates worth 0.6%. 
Wesleyan acknowledge that the 2019 annual statement they sent to Mr R was incorrect. 
It didnt show the correct AMC figures. They explained that the statement only took the 
rebate for slice one into account. Although the rebates for all slices had been correctly 
applied in reality, the 2019 statement didnt take account of the rebates for slices two and 
three. 
They offered Mr R £75 for the distress and inconvenience the incorrect statement had 
caused him. But noted that the error could happen again in the 2020 statement. So they held 
back his statement so they could manually check the figures and correct them if necessary 
before sending it to him. 
I agree with our investigator that this was a reasonable approach for Wesleyan to take to 
correct the error. And I consider that the £75 they offered was fair and reasonable under the circumstances. I also note that the extra level of scrutiny that Wesleyan have applied to Mr 
Rs AMCs for the last two annual statements gives me considerable comfort that the AMCs 
have been applied correctly. 
I acknowledge that Mr R is unhappy that hes been unable to personally check that the total 
charges thatve been applied to his plan are correct. I can see that Wesleyan have confirmed 
the total amount of charges hes paid from the start. And it must be frustrating that he cant 
get to approximately the same figure. But Ive seen no evidence that Wesleyan have applied 
the wrong AMCs. And Im satisfied that they are clear what the charges shouldve been. So I 
cant ask them to rebate any AMC charges as Ive not seen evidence that they did anything 
wrong.
Ongoing advice charges
From everything Ive seen, Mr R hasnt received any ongoing advice from Wesleyan. Nor 
has he paid for any ongoing advice. As no OACs were ever paid, I cant ask Wesleyan to 
refund any OACs.
Initial advice charges
I acknowledge that Wesleyan have said that this service has no jurisdiction on this part of 
the complaint. They pointed out that they responded to a complaint from Mr R on this in 
2013 and that he didnt refer that complaint to this service in time. While I agree with 
Wesleyan, I consider its worth noting the same points as our investigator in this decision. 
Wesleyan have confirmed that with Mr Rs type of plan, the initial charge of 3% applies for 
any new money into the plan. If a customer also receives advice from Wesleyan for that 
investment, a further initial advice charge also applies. This is also 3%. The terms and 
conditions of Mr Rs plan make this clear. But unfortunately these two separate charges 
have the same value and similar names. So I can see why the confusion arose. But Ive 
seen no evidence that Mr R has been charged for initial advice. 
Overall, I consider that Wesleyan have been clear in their responses to Mr R about what the 
charging structure is and what hes been charged over the years. The policy documentation 
they provided also makes the charging structure clear. 
I acknowledge that Mr R still doesnt think hes been charged correctly. He feels that 
Wesleyan havent provided enough supporting evidence to show him that the charges 
theyve applied are correct. He also noted that FCA Rule COBS 6.1.9 requires the firm, 
where an exact price cannot be indicated, to provide the basis for the calculation of the total 
price so that the client can verify it.
I also appreciate that Mr R has said: On very many occasions in the past, Wesleyan has 
provided information on my pension that has been wrong and has subsequently needed to 
be corrected. This has left me in a position where I am reluctant to take their assurances at 
face value. I am, therefore, concerned that, in the absence of more detailed information, 
Wesleyan has been applying the incorrect charges to my pension and that this may account 
for the £2000 difference in the calculations.
But I consider that Wesleyan have provided the basis for the calculation of the total price. 
Theyve confirmed the full charging structure. We cant precisely check calculations of the 
sort Wesleyan have carried out in answering Mr Rs complaint. But Ive seen nothing which 
suggests Wesleyan havent charged Mr R in line with the terms and conditions of his plan, or 
that hes been overcharged. While I understand why Mr R has made his complaint, Ive seen 
no evidence of incorrect charging. So Im not going to ask Wesleyan to refund any charges to Mr R. 
I appreciate Mr R will be unhappy Ive not upheld his complaint. But I agree with our 
investigator that Wesleyans offer of £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
incorrect annual statement is fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons shown above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman