DRN-3514763
The complaint
Mr B complains about Allianz Insurance Plcs handling of a claim made under his buildings 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B owns a flat in a development overseen by a property management company. His flat is 
covered by a buildings insurance policy taken out in the name of the management company 
for his benefit.
Mr B made a claim, through the management company, in July 2021, after the lower floor of 
his flat was inundated with water following a severe storm. A similar claim had been made 
back in 2016.
Allianz initially categorised the claim as a flood claim. This meant the excess Mr B would 
have to pay would be a percentage of the total cost of required repairs  and in this case that 
would be several thousand pounds. 
The previous incident in 2016 had been classified as a storm claim, which carries an excess 
of £100. It was only after Mr B objected that Allianz re-classified the July 2021 incident as a 
storm claim. Mr B says this caused him considerable stress and worry.
Mr B was also unhappy about delays in the early handling of the claim. He says it was fully 
32 days after the claim was made that drying equipment was on site and in operation. 
Because of the delays, he paid his own contractor to do some stripping out. And he arranged 
for drying equipment to be brought in but couldnt go ahead with this because Allianz refused 
to guarantee that he would be reimbursed.
Mr B believes Allianz should have carried out an assessment of the threat to his health (this 
was at the time of the COVID pandemic) caused by staying at his flat. And they should have 
ensured he had suitable alternative accommodation. He also says Allianz didnt do enough 
to ensure contractors working at his flat observed COVID protocols to protect his health and 
wellbeing.
Mr B made a complaint to Allianz about these issues and about what he saw as poor 
communication from Allianz  particularly when he asked specific questions about his claim. 
He also believed Allianz raised the premiums for the policy to ensure that over time they 
would recoup any expenditure on the claim.
Allianz agreed that they hadnt moved as swiftly as they might have done to get drying 
equipment in place at Mr Bs property. And for those delays, they paid him £500 in 
compensation.
They also agreed that there had been some confusion, which was partly their fault, about 
alternative accommodation. They offered a further £250 in compensation for this. 
And they paid Mr B a disturbance allowance, to reflect the fact that he was living in the flat 
when not all essential facilities were available. This was set at £20 per day for the relevant 
period and amounted to more than £800.
Mr B wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. He doesnt think the 
compensation offered is sufficient to reflect the trouble and upset he suffered. Nor does he 
think the disturbance allowance fully covers the inconvenience of living in the flat for the 
relevant period.
He wants more compensation, a written apology from the Chair of Allianz and an assurance 
that the premiums will not be increased in such a way that Allianz essentially recoup the 
2021 renovation bill. 
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Allianz needed to do anything more to put 
things right for Mr B. 
Mr B disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to be clear at the outset about what exactly it is Im entitled to consider in this 
decision.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) dispute resolution (or DISP) rules govern the way 
our service is allowed to operate. Those rules say that we cant look into a complaint unless 
the business that the complaint is about have had a chance to look into it first and an 
opportunity to put things right for their customer (if appropriate). The exception being where 
the business consents to our looking into a complaint even though they havent had the 
chance to do so.
So, I can only look at those matters which Mr B raised in his complaint to Allianz  and to 
which they responded in October 2021, with their final response to Mr B and/or in the on-
going correspondence around that final response.
This is important because Mr B has recently raised a number of new issues with us. For 
example, hes told us hes unhappy with the way the repairs have been carried out in 2022. 
He thinks the alternative accommodation he was offered whilst those repairs were taking 
place was unsuitable. And he thinks Allianz havent responded properly to his request that 
they hold the policy premium increase until theyve considered his representations on that 
matter.
In line with the FCAs DISP rules, we cant look into any of those matters unless and until 
Mr B has raised a complaint with Allianz and either received a final response or waited the 
stipulated eight weeks and still not received a final response.
Turning now to the matters I can consider in this decision, I know this will disappoint Mr B 
but I agree with our investigator that Allianz have done enough to compensate him for the 
trouble and upset he suffered as a result of their errors and/or omissions. Ill explain why.
First of all, I should say that I am very sorry Mr B suffered the inundation at his flat. That  
and the aftermath of it  must have been a dreadful experience. I can understand Mr Bs 
frustration, anger and disappointment at the situation he found himself in. But what I have to do is separate out the inevitable detrimental consequences for Mr B of the 
very unfortunate storm event  for which Allianz werent of course responsible  and the 
additional trouble and upset Mr B was caused solely by Allianzs failings.
The classification of the insured event
Theres no dispute here about the facts. Allianz originally classified the event as a flood. And 
that would have had very serious consequences for Mr B in terms of the excess he would 
have had to pay.
However, they quickly realised their error and changed their position, re-classifying the event 
as a storm. So, whilst Mr B suffered a degree of stress for a short time, the event was 
reasonably quickly classified correctly - and the correct excess applied. Mr B didnt lose out 
financially at all, even in the very short term.
The delays in the drying out work 
Again, theres no real dispute about the facts here. Allianz admit there were four or five 
weeks of unnecessary delays before the drying out equipment was in place.
Im satisfied that £500 compensation for these early failings is sufficient to cover the trouble 
and upset experienced by Mr B solely as a result of those failings. 
There was a delay in the drying out starting. And there was a very short period where Mr B 
was unnecessarily worried about the larger excess he might be asked to pay. Bearing in 
mind the awards we might usually suggest in these kinds of circumstances  examples of 
which are available on our website  I dont think Allianz needs to pay Mr B any more than 
the £500 theyve already paid to compensate him for these particular failings.
I can see from the evidence we have on file that Allianz have reimbursed Mr B for the work 
he had carried out in the flat during the hiatus before the drying equipment was installed.
The discussions about alternative accommodation
Mr B is right in saying that Allianz should have thought about whether they ought to move 
him out of his flat before and during the drying out process. From the evidence we have, it 
appears that were numerous verbal discussions with him about that, but theres no email trail 
that shows what exactly was discussed  and/or concluded  and when.
Allianz have admitted that things could have gone better, and the position could have been 
made clearer. However, it seems they assumed Mr B, having discussed the alternatives 
available, wanted to stay in his flat. 
I dont think that should have been assumed. But I also think Mr B himself wasnt entirely 
clear about what he wanted. I certainly dont see much evidence from either side which 
suggests Mr B was energetically arguing that he needed to be moved as soon as possible.
In any case, Allianz, having admitted things could have gone more smoothly, awarded Mr B 
£250 further compensation. And they paid him a disturbance allowance at £20 per day for 
the relevant period.
In terms of the overall outcome, I cant say that was unfair or unreasonable in all the 
circumstances. Mr B has made the point that, living on the upper floors in his flat, he was 
without full kitchen facilities. Hes also said the electrics were intermittently on and off for a 
few days.That must have been difficult for Mr B. I dont want to underplay the hardship of living in 
those circumstances. But, ultimately, thats what a disturbance allowance is for  it reflects 
the fact that someone is continuing to live in a property which might otherwise be thought 
uninhabitable, and the extra expense (e.g. for certain types of food) that might imply. 
In the circumstances Mr B found himself in, there are two alternatives  alternative 
accommodation or a disturbance allowance  and it is often up to the customer to decide 
which to take.
Allianz didnt in fact move Mr B out of his flat. Theres nothing we can do to reverse that now 
 or indeed anything Allianz could do once Mr B had complained. The chance had passed. 
What they could so, at that stage, was accept the hardship and inconvenience Mr B had 
suffered and reflect that in a disturbance allowance payment to him. 
Thats exactly what they did. And they provided a further £250 in compensation for the 
confusion and lack of clarity. And Im satisfied thats enough to reflect the trouble and upset 
Mr B suffered. 
COVID protocols
When Mr B advised Allianz that contractors werent observing proper COVID safety 
measures, Allianz acted quickly to ensure that they observed those protocols in future.
Mr B didnt contract COVID in the relevant period, from the contractors or elsewhere. I can 
see that he might have been annoyed - and stressed  when the contractors appeared not to 
be paying attention to the protocols, but Allianz did what they could to put that right as soon 
as Mr B reported it to them.
The increased premiums
Mr B objected to the fact the premiums for the policy were increased at the first renewal after 
the insured event. He thinks Allianz are trying to cover all of their costs by increasing the 
annual premiums over time.
Theres no real evidence that Allianz are motivated to do that. Nor would that add up 
mathematically, except over a reasonably long period.
Its not a surprise that premiums go up after claims are made. Premiums are based on 
insurers assessments of risk. And, to put it as simply as I can, its not unreasonable to think 
theres an increased risk of a particular event occurring again if it has occurred in the past. 
Mr Bs flat has been inundated twice between 2016 and 2021.
In any case, the insurance market is a reasonably competitive one. The safeguard against 
paying expensive premiums is usually to shop around and find the cheaper alternatives 
available. 
I gather that Mr B has researched the market in this case. The fact that he cant secure 
much cheaper insurance elsewhere would seem to indicate that Allianzs risk calculations 
arent massively out of kilter with the rest of the market. 
Summary
In summary, theres no doubt that Allianz made errors in the way they handled Mr Bs claim. 
Theyve admitted to unnecessary delays and poor communication at times. Quite rightly, Allianz have compensated Mr B where those errors have impacted him and 
caused him a degree trouble and upset. 
Allianz have paid over £800 in disturbance allowance to reflect the fact that he lived for a 
period of time in a flat which might otherwise have been considered uninhabitable. And 
theyve paid Mr B a total of £750 to reflect the trouble and upset caused by the delays and 
the poor communication. 
That amount is in line with the kind of awards our service would make in similar 
circumstances, bearing in mind that each case is unique.
As I say above, if Mr B is dissatisfied with the way Allianz have handled his claim during the 
period after the events Ive considered in this decision, he would be entitled to make a 
further complaint to Allianz. And hed be entitled to bring that further complaint to us if hes 
not happy with the response from Allianz.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman