DRN-3202722
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about Hiscox Insurance Company Limiteds decision not to renew
their Buildings and Contents Insurance policy.
What happened
At renewal of their policy in 2018 Hiscox wrote to Mr and Mrs S to tell them that due to the 
number of claims made on the policy, ordinarily it would no longer be offering to provide 
cover to them. However, due to two of the claims being open, it recognised Mr and Mrs S 
may find it difficult to find an alternative policy. Because of this, it gave Mr and Mrs S a 
years notice that it would no longer provide insurance to them from 2019.
In 2019 Hiscox wrote to Mr and Mrs S to confirm it wouldnt be offering to renew their 
policy. Mr and Mrs S didnt receive the letter straight away so Hiscox agreed to allow the 
policy to run for a further month to allow Mr and Mrs S time to find an alternative policy.
Mr and Mrs S complain about Hiscoxs decision not to renew their policy and the fact the 
letter arrived without postage having been paid. They also complain they were told it was 
due to delays on their part that the claims were still open and that Hiscox made their 
decision with the incorrect claim values listed against the policy  as these had reduced in 
the meantime.
Hiscox considered Mr and Mrs Ss point but didnt change its position. It said it had paid 
the correct postage for the letter but in any event, offered to reimburse the money Mr and 
Mrs S paid on receipt of proof.
Having brought their complaint to this service, an investigator considered it and thought it 
should be upheld. She said that Hiscox hadnt provided this service with any information 
which supported its decision not to offer renewal of Mr and Mrs Ss policy. The investigator 
therefore didnt believe Hiscox had shown it had treated Mr and Mrs S fairly or the same as 
it would have done any other customer in the same circumstances. She recommended it 
reimburse Mr and Mrs S the difference in cost between its policy and the new one Mr and 
Mrs S had to take out.
Hiscox disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint. Mr and Mrs S also said the decision should take into account the impact the 
situation had on them and that Mrs S underlying medical conditions had been exacerbated 
by the stress they were put under.
My provisional findings 
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 19 November 2021. I said I did not 
intend to uphold the complaint for the following reasons:
Insurers are entitled to decide what risks they wish to provide cover for and ultimately 
who they wish to insure. It isnt my role to challenge this or tell an insurer who it should 
provide cover to. What I will do however is check that an insurer has acted in line with its 
own policies and procedures in making such a decision. And, in this case Ill be checking 
that Hiscox has treated Mr and Mrs S in the same way it would any other customer in 
similar circumstances.
In order to uphold this complaint, Id need to be persuaded that Hiscox didnt treat Mr and 
Mrs S fairly when it made its decision, that it singled them out or didnt follow its own 
policies and procedures.
Since the investigator issued her opinion Hiscox has now provided this service with the 
information on how it reached its decision. I cant share this information with Mr and Mrs S 
as it is commercially sensitive, however I can assure them Ive checked this carefully. 
Having done this, Im satisfied Hiscox didnt treat Mr and Mrs S differently to the way it 
would any other customer in similar circumstances when reaching its decision not to offer 
renewal of the policy. So, based on this, I dont think it singled Mr and Mrs S out and Im 
persuaded it acted reasonably in making its decision.
However, in saying this it did treat Mr and Mrs S differently in that it recognised their 
circumstances and gave them a years notice that the policy would not continue. I think 
this was a fair action to take. Similarly, it gave further time to Mr and Mrs S when it was 
notified they didnt receive the letter in 2019 straight away.
Mrs S has said she thinks the claim value being incorrect and a claim being open 
influenced the decision. She also says Hiscoxs delays meant the claim was open, so they 
were disadvantaged because of this. She mentions Hiscoxs decision not to pursue a 
recovery of costs against the third party in one of the claims prejudiced their position and 
unfairly influenced the decision on cover.
However, having considered the information available to me, Im satisfied none of these 
factors (separately or combined) would ultimately have influenced the decision not to offer 
renewal of the policy. The policy allows an insurer to take over and deal with a claim as it 
sees fit, so I dont think Hiscox treated Mrs S in anyway differently to it would have any 
other customer in using its judgement whether or not a recovery would be successful on 
the claim she has mentioned.
Mr and Mrs S have provided evidence which shows they were charged postage for the 
letter in 2019. Hiscox has said the letter was paid for and sent recorded delivery, and 
therefore it wouldnt be its error the letter was charged for on collection. However, it 
offered to refund this should Mr and Mrs S provide a receipt. Mr and Mrs S have provided 
a copy of the envelope which they wouldnt have received unless they paid the charge so I 
think its reasonable Hiscox should now make the payment it offered.
I realise the policy not being renewed would have been stressful for Mr and Mrs S. Theyve 
explained the difficulty they had finding an alternative cover and the impact this had on 
Mrs S in particular. I was sorry to hear this, but given I dont think Hiscox have done 
anything wrong here, I wont be recommending any compensation is paid to Mr and Mrs S.
Responses to my provisional decision
Hiscox did not respond to my provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs S said the disagreed with my decision. They reiterated many of the points and 
evidence they had provided previously and said they do not believe they should be 
disadvantaged by Hiscoxs decision not to recover costs from a third party. It has cost them 
thousands of pounds and had a long-term impact on their family as well as Mrs Ss health. 
Mr and Mrs S also said they expect Hiscox to reimburse the wages of their staff member who collected the letter for them and the other costs they incurred in doing so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not minded to alter my provisional decision. I realise Mr and Mrs S feel 
very strongly about what happened and why they think Hiscox mishandled both the claims 
and the renewal decisions. However, as I set out in my provisional decision, Im satisfied it 
was entitled to make the decisions it did and it didnt treat Mr and Mrs S any different from 
the way it would have done any other customer with the same circumstances.
Hiscox has offered to reimburse the costs of postage Mr and Mrs S had to pay, which I think 
is reasonable. It was Mr and Mrs Ss decision to instruct a member of staff to collect that 
letter, I wouldnt expect Hiscox to reimburse the costs incurred for that instruction.  
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above, and those in 
my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against Hiscox Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman