DRN-3037451
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that his premium increased under his car insurance policy a renewal even 
though Saga Services Limited promised not to increase the premium for three years.
What happened
Mr R bought a car insurance policy through a broker, Saga Services Limited in 2019.
In February 2020 Mr Rs policy renewed through Saga. Mr R had been involved in a road 
traffic accident and just after the renewal date in February 2020, he received a motoring 
conviction. 
He notified Saga promptly  and as a result Mr Rs premium went up by £6.17. At renewal in 
February 2021, Mr Rs premium went up by almost £80 from the year before. 
Mr R complained to Saga as he said the premium shouldnt have increased due to the three 
year price fix promise it gave. 
Saga said the premium increase was correct  but it refunded the additional £6.17 it had 
charged Mr R in February 2020.
Mr R remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought that 
Saga had acted reasonably. She found that one of Sagas price fix conditions was that a 
customer didnt receive a motor conviction. As Mr R had, she didnt think it had wrongly 
charged a premium at renewal as set out under the promise.
Mr R didnt agree. He said it was unfair for Saga to decide to increase his premium in 
February 2020  and then again at renewal. Our investigator explained that  had Saga not 
refunded the premium it charged in February 2020  she would have asked it to do so. This 
was because its terms say that it will change the price at renewal if a motor conviction is 
received mid -term. But as it had already provided a refund for the mid-term charge, she 
thought Saga had done enough to put things right. 
Mr R didnt agree. He said he hasnt cashed the cheque Saga sent him for the difference in 
premium the insurer charged in February 2020. He is of the view that once Saga increased 
his premium then, this was in effect a new contract and so it breached that contract when it 
applied an increase at renewal in February 2021.
Mr R has asked to raise a new complaint with Saga that it mis-sold the policy to him. 
So as Mr R didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sagas three fixed price promise was explained as follows:
This includes legal protection, accident healthcare, onward travel and our 3-year 
Price Promise. This means if nothing changes over the next three years, neither will 
the cost of your policy.
The terms and conditions of the promise say:
3-year fixed price terms and conditions
1. The Saga Fixed Price Promise is offered for a 3-year period from when your policy
cover starts, subject to you renewing annually. Your Saga Fixed Price Promise term
is as follows:
Year Date
Year 1 11 February 2020
Year 2 11 February 2021
Year 3 11 February 2022
2. With the Saga Fixed Price Promise, your total price (including the price of any
additional cover options) will be fixed for each Year stated above subject to these
Saga Fixed Price Promise Terms and conditions.
3. The price of your insurance may change during each year stated above if: You
make a fault claim or receive a conviction. Your insurance price will change at the
next renewal after the fault claim or conviction. Please note  if you make a non-fault
claim during your policy year, your price will remain unchanged
The key term here is: Your insurance price will change at the next renewal after the fault 
claim or conviction. So  when Mr R reported the motor conviction shortly after renewal in 
February 2020, Saga should not have applied a change to the premium until renewal in 
February 2021. So I dont think Saga should have applied an increase here.
When things go wrong, we look at what a business did to put things right. In this case, Saga 
refunded the additional premium it charged Mr R in February 2020. I think this was 
reasonable and in line with the terms of the fixed price promise. 
Mr R says he thinks Saga didnt do anything wrong when it applied an increase in premium 
in February 2020. He says in reality its not about the terms and conditions of the contract as 
described, its about the money  the three year fixed premium. 
But ultimately Saga has correctly applied a change of premium to Mr Rs policy at renewal 
following the motor conviction. What it did wrong was to apply an increase in February 2020  
- when Mr R made it aware. And so I think Saga has put things right  even though I 
appreciate this means Mr R was asked to pay more at renewal in February 2021. 
Mr R says Saga should have told him when he disclosed the conviction that it intended to 
increase the premium at renewal. But I think Saga shouldnt have charged Mr R an 
increased premium in February 2020  so it made an error here. The correct time for Saga 
to have made a change to the premium was at renewal. And its terms and conditions show 
when it will change the price. 
So as Saga put Mr R back in the position he would have been had it acted within the terms 
of the fixed price promise  I think overall Mr R has been treated fairly. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr R. But this means Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman