DRN-1398339
 
The complaint
Ms B complains about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc has handled a theft claim she made 
on her buildings and contents insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2018, Ms B suffered a theft from her home. Several items were taken, including 
around £50,000 worth of jewellery. Ms B reported the theft to the police and made a claim on 
her home insurance policy.
AXA appointed loss adjusters to investigate Ms Bs claim. The loss adjusters identified a 
number of concerns they had about the claim. Another family member had made a high 
value theft claim for jewellery in 2015. Ms B had told AXA her jewellery had been stored at 
that address at the time of the theft in 2015, but had been missed by the thieves. But the 
police report from that claim suggested the family member had told the police all of the 
family jewellery was stolen. 
Ms B provided the loss adjusters with a 2017 valuation, including photos, for the high value 
jewellery shed claimed for. And shed been able to provide proof of purchase for some of 
the lower value items. But she hadnt been able to evidence proof of purchase for the high 
value items. Ms B had claimed for £6000 of stolen cash which she hadnt been able to 
substantiate. Shed also claimed for a damaged laptop which she told AXA had been 
damaged during the theft. But AXAs electrical specialists said the laptop hadnt been 
working for a few months before the claim. 
AXA also had other concerns about things Ms B had told the loss adjusters in her witness 
statement. So it asked Ms B to provide an explanation for the concerns itd identified. Ms B 
was unhappy about the delays in progressing her claim, so she made a complaint to us. An 
investigator looked into that complaint and thought AXA hadnt unreasonably delayed Ms Bs 
claim. She thought AXA had been entitled to fully investigate it.
In May 2019, AXA turned down Ms Bs claim based on the policy fraud condition. Ms B 
asked us to look into a new complaint about AXAs handling of her claim. She felt AXA had 
been biased against her; had called her a liar and had caused her emotional and mental 
trauma.
AXA reviewed how it had handled Ms Bs claim. It decided the decision to turn it down on the 
basis of fraud was wrong and it removed this from Ms Bs claim file. (Ms Bs policy had 
lapsed while the policy was ongoing, so no voidance had been registered against the policy.) 
It paid Ms B £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its decision to incorrectly 
decline the claim for fraud had caused her. But it still felt Ms B hadnt sufficiently responded 
to its concerns about the claim. So it said it couldnt consider it any further until she provided 
more information.Our investigator looked into Ms Bs complaint. He thought AXAs decision to look at Ms Bs 
claim in detail was reasonable. He didnt think its investigations were disproportionate. And 
he thought the compensation AXA had paid Ms B was fair in the circumstances.
But he noted that AXA hadnt disputed a theft had taken place at Ms Bs home; shed 
provided a valuation for the high value items and he thought shed answered all of the 
questions AXA had put to her. He didnt think AXA could simply stop dealing with the claim. 
He felt it either needed to turn down the claim or deal with it. So he recommended that AXA 
reassess the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
AXA disagreed. It said it hadnt made a decision about the claim because Ms B hadnt been 
able to alleviate its concerns. It pointed to discrepancies in her witness statements. It said 
our service had supported this position in previous cases.
So the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and I think AXA now needs to reassess this claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms and conditions. Ill explain why. 
Both parties have provided me with lots of information about this complaint. While Ive only 
summarised whats happened, Ive read and considered everything in detail in reaching my 
decision. I must also stress that I am not making any finding on whether or not AXA should 
pay Ms Bs claim. And also stress that we decide each individual case based on its own 
particular facts and circumstances.
Generally, its for a policyholder to show a loss thats covered by their policy happened. 
Once theyve done this, the onus switches to an insurer to either deal with a claim, or show 
its specifically excluded by the policy terms.
In this case, AXA accepts Ms B suffered a theft from her home. Ive seen a police report 
setting out the circumstances of that theft. Ms Bs policy covers theft claims. So Im satisfied 
shes shown, on the face of things, that shes suffered a loss due to something her policy 
covers. Shes also been able to provide a valuation showing photographs of the jewellery 
shes claimed for, together with receipts, but only for some of the lower value items.
I appreciate AXA has concerns about Ms Bs claim. Particularly around the high value 
jewellery Ms Bs claimed for; her version of what happened and discrepancies around the 
laptop usage. I think its decisions to appoint investigators and to conduct a second interview 
with Ms B were reasonable  especially given the contents of the 2015 police report, which 
seemingly contradicted her first version of events. I can understand why its undertaken 
detailed enquiries and sought third party evidence. I also appreciate that it feels its concerns 
havent been adequately addressed.
But having considered everything, I do think Ms B has sought to answer the concerns AXA 
has put to her. Shes provided explanations for some of the discrepancies between her 
witness statement and the third party evidence. Shes given it the proof of ownership she 
does have. Shes also sent us evidence from a medical professional which says shes 
suffering from an anxiety disorder. This claim has now been ongoing for over two years and I 
dont doubt that its causing Ms B considerably more stress. It seems to me theres likely little 
more information Ms B can add.So I agree with the investigator that this claim now needs to be progressed. My role isnt to 
make AXAs decision for it.  I think it now needs to weigh up all of the information and 
evidence it does have and reassess the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and 
conditions. If it decides the claim isnt covered, it will need to tell Ms B which term in the 
policy its relied on to make this decision and why. 
If Ms B is unhappy with AXAs decision about her claim, it will be open to her to make a 
separate complaint to AXA about this. We may then be able to look into any further 
complaint for her.
Ive thought about the compensation AXA paid Ms B. I appreciate it must have been very 
upsetting when her claim was incorrectly turned down because of fraud, especially when Ms 
B was already suffering from anxiety. So I think it was appropriate that AXA paid her 
compensation. 
But as Ive explained, I think it was reasonable for AXA to want to investigate Ms Bs claim 
further. And Ive also borne in mind that while AXA initially recorded the claim as fraudulent 
on its own file, Ms Bs policy had already lapsed. It was recorded as lapsed on AXAs 
systems. So I dont think it wouldve impacted on her ability to get insurance elsewhere. So 
overall, I think £200 for Ms Bs trouble and upset was fair compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Ms Bs complaint.
I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to now reassess Ms Bs claim, in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of her policy, based on the information it currently holds and to communicate 
its decision to Ms B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman