DRN-4435051
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) caused unnecessary delays to the 
payment of her two pension plans. She also fees she received poor customer service. 
Phoenix upheld the complaint. It agreed to put right any financial loss caused by the 
unnecessary delays. And initially paid £200 for the distress and inconvenience itd caused 
Mrs W. It also paid her £50 to cover the cost of the phone calls shed had to make. 
After Mrs W brought her complaint to this service, Phoenix offered a further £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience itd caused Mrs W. She doesnt consider 
this is sufficient for the level of distress and inconvenience. 
What happened
Mrs W had two pensions with Phoenix. 
Mrs W said she received a letter - dated 1 October 2021 - which indicated that she might be 
a customer of Phoenix on 24 January 2022. So she called it on 25 January 2022. She said 
that Phoenixs letter had told her that all she needed to do was to get in touch with it to 
confirm her details. She said she only had Phoenixs reference number to quote on her first 
call. And that shed only quoted this on the call, but Phoenix had hung up after telling her she 
hadnt passed its security checks. Mrs W said she didnt know what security checks were 
required. And Phoenix hadnt told her. 
Mrs W then completed and posted a personal details form thatd been sent with Phoenixs 
letter. She said she included a photocopy of her marriage certificate, which proved her name 
change.
Phoenix said it received the completed personal details form on 9 February 2022. It said that 
as Mrs W was living overseas, it wrote to her on 16 February 2022 to ask her for sight of the 
original marriage certificate. It said an incorrect email address was provided to Mrs W at this 
point. This letter also explained that when Mrs W sent this information using the email 
provided, she should quote her customer number, which was based on her National 
Insurance (NI) number.
Mrs W said that every time she tried to send her marriage certificate to the email address 
shed been told to use, it came back as undeliverable. 
Phoenix said it wrote to Mrs W on 21 February 2022 to chase her for the marriage certificate. 
And when it didnt receive a reply, it said it sent five further chaser letters between March 
2022 and September 2022. 
Phoenix said that Mrs W called it on 16 September 2022 to ask it about her name change. It 
said it called her back on 20 September 2022 to explain that it still needed her marriage 
certificate to update her name. And on 21 September 2022, it said it called Mrs W to discuss 
her plan information. And that it received Mrs Ws email with a scanned copy of her marriage 
certificate the same day. Within this email, Mrs W told Phoenix when she would be available 
during the week if it needed to call her again.
Phoenix said that it updated Mrs Ws name on 30 September 2022. And it wrote to her to 
confirm this. It also sent a Retirement Quote Illustrative letter for the smaller of Mrs Ws two 
plans. This showed that the value as £2,008.17. 
Phoenix said that Mrs W called it on 26 October 2022 to discuss her pension. It said it told 
her about the claim process, including the retirement pack that itd sent on 30 September 
2022. Mrs W said shed not received the letter, and that she was unaware of the claim 
process. Phoenix then re-sent the retirement pack first class. It also logged Mrs Ws first 
grumble. Phoenix then sent the retirement pack for the second of Mrs Ws two plans on 28 
October 2022.This plan had a value of £5,509.41. 
Phoenix said Mrs W called it again on 7 November 2022 to discuss her plans and options. It 
said she then called again to cash in both of her plans. But that the line had failed, so shed 
called back later to complete the second stage of the claim process. Phoenix said it issued a 
Retirement Quote Illustrative letter for one of Mrs Fs plans the same day. But said it didnt 
send this for the other plan until 20 December 2022.
Mrs W said she emailed Phoenix on 21 January 2023 to tell it shed posted her completed 
claim forms. Phoenix said it received these on 27 January 2023. 
On 7 February 2023, Phoenix told Mrs W that £5,024.54 had been paid into her bank 
account in respect of the bigger plan. And on 27 February 2023, Phoenix told Mrs W that 
£1,925.31 had been paid into her bank account in respect of the smaller one. 
Phoenix said it sent P45s for both plans to Mrs W. But in April 2023, Mrs W told Phoenix she 
was concerned as shed only received a P45 for one plan. She said shed been given 
incorrect information about this. 
Phoenix said that as it couldnt issue duplicates of P45s, it wrote to Mrs W on 25 April 2023 
to provide the taxable amounts and tax deducted for both plans. Its work log recorded that it 
had: Issued a letter with copies of the letters for both policies but we cannot duplicate P45's 
as the originals may still arrive, they could just be delayed. Phoenix said that after speaking 
to Mrs W on 9 June 2023, it agreed to issue a copy-stamped P45 for one of the plans, which 
it actioned on 20 June 2023.
Mrs W complained to Phoenix on 5 June 2023. She was unhappy with the service and 
information itd provided since February 2022. She was also unhappy that the P45 document 
for one of her plans was still missing, despite having been told itd be posted to her. 
Phoenix issued its final response to the complaint on 23 June 2023. It apologised for 
providing an incorrect email address to Mrs W. And for the poor communication itd provided 
throughout the claim journey. It also apologised for the incorrect information provided by 
some of its call handlers. 
Phoenix also apologised because it hadnt actioned Mrs Ws initial request for a copy-
stamped P45 for the smaller of her two plans in May 2023. It said this had now been issued 
as registered post on 20 June 2023.
Phoenix upheld the complaint. And offered Mrs W £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. It also said that the delays itd caused had led to her being £118.30 worse off. So it 
offered this amount as financial redress. It also offered Mrs W £50 to compensate her for the 
cost of the calls shed made. It said it would pay her a total of £368.30. Mrs W was unhappy with Phoenixs response. So she brought her complaint to this service. 
She said that her health and finances had been affected due to the stress shed suffered. 
And felt that more compensation was appropriate under the circumstances.
After this service had requested Phoenixs complaint file, it said it reconsidered its original 
distress and inconvenience compensation. It said itd like to pay Mrs W a further £150 for the 
delay in processing the claim. Our investigator passed this offer onto Mrs W.
Mrs W rejected the offer. She told this service that shed called Phoenix as much as four 
times a month since January 2022. She said shed asked it to call her at specific times in the 
week, but felt it had ignored that request. She said that despite this, she always called 
Phoenix back on any missed calls within one or two hours. She also said that Phoenix had 
told her that it would usually take 10 to 15 days after receiving the paperwork to cash in the 
two pensions. She felt shed started the process in January 2022. But she hadnt received 
the money until 10 February 2023 and 28 February 2023. 
Mrs W said shed been trying to buy a car for her new job at the time, and because itd taken 
so long to cash in her pensions, shed lost the job. She said the stress and financial strain 
were immense. And that her health had suffered.
Mrs W felt shed received poor service throughout the process. She also said that shed had 
to wait each time she called Phoenix to actually get through to someone. And that promised 
call backs hadnt always happened. And that despite requesting information for both of her 
plans, Phoenix had only sent it for one, or had duplicated the paperwork for only one of the 
plans. 
Our investigator felt that Phoenixs settlement offer with a further £150 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience itd caused was reasonable.
Mrs W didnt agree with our investigator. She said shed only spent around 15 to 30 minutes 
trying to send emails to the incorrect email address. And that shed mentioned the incorrect 
email address in January or February 2022. She said shed been told the correct email 
address later, but had agreed with Phoenix that in future phone conversations were easier 
as its emails were encrypted. Therefore the incorrect email address wasnt an issue after 
shed pointed it out as she always spoke to Phoenix by phone. She said she didnt send 
emails apart from the one shed sent to scan her marriage certificate. 
Mrs W said Phoenix asked her in September 2022 on the phone to scan and send her 
marriage certificate. And that shed done this straight away. She said shed not been asked 
for this before. And if she had, it must mean that Phoenixs letters didnt arrive. 
Mrs W also said that Phoenix hadnt told her that original P45s would be posted. She said 
shed received one but not the other. She said this was why shed asked if she could scan 
her original marriage certificate, as Phoenix couldnt be trusted to return the original. She 
said shed sent this as soon as Phoenix had agreed this was acceptable in September 2022.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that Phoenixs settlement offer is reasonable. I 
know my decision will disappoint Mrs W. Ill explain the reasons for it. I first considered whether Phoenix acted reasonably when it first spoke to Mrs W on 25 
January 2022.
Phoenixs security check on 25 January 2022
Mrs W said that when she contacted Phoenix on 25 January 2022, she wasnt able to 
answer its security questions correctly. 
From what Ive seen, she was provided with a personal details form in the first Phoenix letter 
she received. So, although I understand why she was frustrated that Phoenix hung up on her 
when she failed its security checks on 25 January 2022, I dont consider it did anything 
wrong. 
I say this because, from what Mrs W has told this service, shed only just found out she 
might be a customer of Phoenix, despite its letter being sent almost four months earlier. And 
that letter included the client details form. I acknowledge that Mrs Ws preference was to 
speak to Phoenix, but Im not sure how she couldve been in a position to pass security 
checks during a phone call at this point. She didnt have any information about her benefits 
with Phoenix other than those in the letter. And Phoenix wouldve had no way of knowing 
that the letter had found its way to the correct person. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that, under the circumstances, it was reasonable for a personal 
details form to be included in the letter from Phoenix and for it to expect that Mrs W would 
complete and return this in order to confirm she was its policyholder.
I next considered whether the financial redress Phoenix has already paid Mrs W was 
appropriate. 
Is the financial redress Phoenix has paid Mrs W appropriate?
Phoenix calculated the financial redress based on what shouldve happened once itd 
updated Mrs Ws name on 30 September 2022. It said Mrs W had given no clear intention 
that she wanted to claim her benefits when shed first called it in January 2022. It also said 
that Mrs W hadnt got back in touch with it until 16 September 2022 to query the status of her 
name change. It had then called her back on 20 September 2022 to explain that it still 
needed her marriage certificate to update her name, and shed provided this the following 
day. 
I think that it was at this time that it became apparent that Phoenix had provided Mrs W with 
the wrong email address in February 2022. She provided the required certificate the 
following day. 
Mrs W said she hadnt spent very long trying to send emails to the incorrect email address. 
She said shed told Phoenix about it in January or February 2022. And that although Phoenix 
had told her the correct email address, itd agreed that it would communicate with her by 
phone. She also said that when Phoenix had, for the first time, asked her for a scan of her 
marriage certificate in September 2022, shed provided this straight away. 
Im satisfied that the evidence shows that once Mrs W had contacted Phoenix about the 
outstanding requirements for her name change, it took reasonable steps to let her know 
what was still needed. Im also satisfied that once Mrs W had provided this, Phoenix 
processed it in a reasonable time frame. Therefore Im satisfied that its reasonable for 
Phoenix to base its redress calculations on having a confirmed name for Mrs W on 30 
September 2022.Phoenix felt that Mrs Ws smaller plan shouldve been processed five working days after her 
marital status had been updated and a Retirement Quote Illustrative letter had been issued, 
so 7 October 2022. It told this service that Mrs Ws smaller plan shouldve been processed 
on 7 October 2022 rather than 23 February 2023. And the bigger plan shouldve been 
processed on 7 October 2022 rather than 7 February 2023. It said its actuarial department 
had calculated that if this had happened, Mrs W wouldve received £118.30 more in total 
from her pensions. This included 8% each year simple interest as compensation for the loss 
of use of the money, in line with what this service usually recommends.
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Phoenix has taken reasonable steps to put Mrs W 
back into the position she wouldve been in but for the delays it caused. I say this because 
Ive seen no evidence that Mrs W asked Phoenix to cash in her pensions before September 
2022. 
In any event, Phoenix wasnt able to confirm Mrs Ws name change until 30 September 
2022, so even if Mrs W had made it clear that she wanted to cash in her pensions before 
then, Phoenix wouldnt have been able to action her request until shed provided the 
marriage certificate.
Phoenix first told Mrs W it needed sight of her original marriage certificate on 16 February 
2022. It also said it sent several chasers to her. I acknowledge that Mrs W said she didnt 
receive any of these letters. But even if she didnt, Im still satisfied that she knew Phoenix 
needed her original marriage certificate. I say this because shed tried to comply with this 
request around the time shed first received it in February 2022, but had failed due to having 
been given an incorrect email address. Despite knowing Phoenixs requirement for this, Mrs 
W didnt send it until September 2022.
I acknowledge that Mrs W said she tried to provide the marriage certificate before 
September 2022. And that shed agreed with Phoenix that shed communicate with it by 
phone, given how erratic the postal system was. But I cant fairly say that Phoenixs request 
for the original marriage certificate in February 2022 was either unclear or unreasonable. So 
Id expect Mrs W to call Phoenix to ask it how she could provide it with the marriage 
certificate it needed once the scan of the original marriage certificate had bounced back. 
Mrs W told this service that shed been calling Phoenix constantly since January 2022. She 
said shed mentioned the bounce backs to Phoenix once very early on and that itd agreed 
that it was an error on its part. But, despite receiving extremely detailed logs from Phoenix, 
Ive seen no evidence that she asked it  before September 2022  about its ongoing 
request for evidence of her name change. 
While I dont doubt Mrs Ws testimony, without any further evidence that she asked Phoenix 
how she could fulfil its request for the original marriage certificate much earlier than 
September 2022, Im more persuaded that Phoenix only realised itd provided Mrs W with 
the wrong email address on 20 September 2022. It then provided the correct email address 
and Mrs W provided it with the missing documentation. 
I think that if Mrs W had told Phoenix that her emails were bouncing back at an earlier date, 
it wouldve provided her with the correct email address, as it did on 21 September 2022. I 
say this because Phoenix sent several chasers asking Mrs W to send it her original 
certificate between March and September 2022. Regardless of whether Mrs W received 
these chasers or not, I dont think Phoenix wouldve sent them if itd spoken to Mrs W about 
the incorrect email address. In that case, I think it wouldve given her other methods of 
getting the required document to it.
Mrs W also said that Phoenix asked her for a scan of her marriage certificate for the first time in September 2022. This is clearly not correct. I say this because she also said that 
shed tried to comply with Phoenixs February 2022 request for the scan of the marriage 
certificate at the time. But didnt succeed due to the incorrect email address. Overall, Im 
satisfied that it took Mrs W from February 2022 to September 2022 to meet Phoenixs 
request.
Im therefore satisfied that Phoenixs financial redress calculation is fair and reasonable. 
I finally considered whether Phoenixs total offer of £350 for the distress and inconvenience it 
has caused Mrs W is fair and reasonable. I understand that it has already paid Mrs W £200 
of this, alongside £118.30 in respect of the financial loss its delays caused and £50 to cover 
the cost of phone calls. 
Distress and inconvenience
Phoenix said its original distress and inconvenience offer of £200 was because thered been 
an error with the mailbox address itd given Mrs W. And because of the frustration and 
inconvenience shed faced when dealing with her claim from overseas. 
I can see that there have been a number of issues with the service Mrs W received from 
Phoenix. These are as follows:
The provision of the incorrect email address.
Phoenixs apparent failure to send the Retirement Quote Illustrative letter for both 
plans on 30 September 2022. Mrs W said shed made it clear to Phoenix that it 
should treat both of her plans together. And that itd agreed to this.
Mrs Ws difficulty in getting through to Phoenix on the phone. Its failure to call back 
when it said it would. And its failure to call her at the times shed asked it to.
Phoenixs failure to action Mrs Ws initial request for a copy stamped P45 in May 
2023.
However, I can also see that Phoenix took reasonable steps to put right the financial loss its 
avoidable delays caused. And that it made a compensation offer in respect of the distress 
and inconvenience the issues above have caused Mrs W. 
So I need to consider if the total compensation offer of the £200 already paid, plus the 
further £150 offered, is reasonable for the distress and inconvenience Mrs W has suffered. 
Mrs W said that shed suffered stress which had affected her health and finances. And that 
the delay in cashing in her pensions had caused her to forfeit a new job. 
From what Ive seen, Phoenix acknowledged its mistakes. And acted relatively quickly to put 
things right. I can see that it tried to ensure that it fully understood all aspects of Mrs Ws 
complaint. 
I can also see that the issues Mrs W has faced have caused her considerable stress. Im 
sorry for what shes been through.
However, as I noted above, I consider that a large part of the delay in cashing in Mrs Ws 
pension was due to her failing to provide the requested marriage certificate. So it wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable for me to hold Phoenix responsible for all of the impact the delay has had 
on Mrs W. I also note that Phoenixs revised offer  a total of £350 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused  would be within the range of what this service might award where the impact of a 
businesss mistake has caused considerable distress, upset and worry, and/or significant 
inconvenience and disruption that needs a lot of extra effort to sort out. And where the 
impact has lasted over many weeks or months.
Therefore, while I know this will disappoint Mrs W, I cant fairly ask Phoenix to increase its 
offer. So I uphold this complaint, as Phoenix still needs to pay the additional £150 it has 
offered Mrs W. But I wont be asking it to take any additional steps. 
Putting things right
Phoenix Life Limited must pay Mrs W a further £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused her.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Phoenix Life Limited must pay 
Mrs W a further £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman