DRN-3874726
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) didnt downgrade his account to a fee-
free account after he had complained about it being mis-sold in 2014.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicator, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
uphold this complaint.
In 2014, Mr B complained to Lloyds that it had mis-sold him a fee-paying Silver account. 
Lloyds responded to the complaint and upheld the complaint in Mr Bs favour. In Lloyds 
response to the complaint, it went on to say:
To provide a fair outcome for you, I am going to uphold your complaint and refund 
the account fees that you have paid. I will also provide you with the next 2 month's 
account fees so you can decide on your account options.
It then later went on to say:
In light of your comments regarding your AVA not being sold appropriately it is 
necessary for you to review which account is right for you. While I cannot advise you 
on which account is best for your needs, I have included with this letter details of all 
the current accounts that we at Lloyds offer, including those accounts which have no 
monthly account fee.
If you do not feel your current bank account is right for you, you need to act now. To 
change to any of our other accounts, you can visit any Lloyds branch visit (www. 
Lloydsbank.com to find your local branch) or you can call us on Lloyds - 0800 015 
0168 (geographic number 01733 462261).
If you do not take any action to change your account within the next 60 days, we will 
assume that you are happy with the account you hold. We will write to you again in 
60 days to confirm that is our understanding.
Therefore, based on the letter that was sent to both Mr B and his representative, Im satisfied 
that it was made clear that it was up to Mr B to choose which account he wanted to change 
to.
Lloyds has also provided a copy of the follow-up letter it sent to Mr B on 24 February 2015, 
reminding that Mr B had still not changed his account and so assumed that Mr B had wanted 
to keep his account. This again reminded Mr B that he was free to change to an account 
without a monthly fee at any time, and invited him to contact Lloyds if he wished to discuss 
changing his account.
Having considered everything, I think Lloyds made it quite clear to Mr B in 2014 and 2015 
that he needed to change his account, and it was up to him to decide which account he 
wanted to change to (or close the account). Im also mindful that the fees wouldve continued 
to appear on Mr Bs bank statements since 2014, and Lloyds wouldve continued sending 
letters about his packaged account each time an amendment was made, or an annual 
eligibility statement was issued. So I cant reasonably say that Lloyds failed to make it clear 
to Mr B that he still had a fee-paying packaged account.
Therefore, it appears that Mr B continued to pay for the account essentially because he 
made an incorrect assumption and because he chose not to read the information that Lloyds 
had sent him about his account and his complaint - rather than because Lloyds had made an 
error.
Mr B has said that he didnt receive these letters. However, they look to be correctly 
addressed, so I think they were more likely than not to have been received by Mr B. 
Furthermore, I note that the final response letter was also sent to Mr Bs representative  
which was a claims management company i.e. a company who should be well versed in the 
complaints process. So even if Mr B didnt receive the final response letter to his complaint 
(although I find that to be unlikely), I think its likely his representative did. And so they 
wouldve been aware that Mr B was required to choose which account he wanted to change 
to. And unfortunately for Mr B, I cant reasonably hold Lloyds responsible if Mr Bs 
representative failed to explain the contents of the final response letter with him.
As such, because Ive not been able to see that Lloyds has done anything wrong or acted 
unfairly in this matter, Im unable to find in Mr Bs favour.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman