DRN-3888134
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC restricted his account following the receipt of a 
cheque from his mothers estate.
What happened
Mr P received a cheque for £45,000 from his mothers estate. Following the receipt of the 
funds into his Lloyds account, Mr P found that his account had been blocked by Lloyds. Mr P 
wasnt happy about this, especially as hed recently had cause to complain to Lloyds about 
similar events. So, he raised a complaint.
Lloyds looked at Mr Ps complaint. They explained theyd felt the need to carry out further 
checks on the incoming amount and didnt feel theyd acted unfairly towards Mr P by doing 
so. Mr P wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Lloyds had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr P 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds have confirmed that the balance received into Mr Ps account was selected for further 
checks by their automated fraud prevention systems. Such systems are used by financial 
institutions to flag account activity that may be of concern and to prevent further usage of an 
account where its felt that there is a possibility that fraud may be potentially occurring. 
Financial institutions such as Lloyds have an obligation to employ such systems. 
Additionally, its incumbent on banks to employ these systems with a degree of vigilance  to 
err on the side of caution, as it were  which unfortunately means that there will be instances 
where legitimately authorised payments are flagged erroneously by the fraud prevention 
systems. And Im satisfied that this is what happened in this instance.
I recognise that Mr P would like Lloyds to provide a more detailed explanation as to why this 
was the case. But I wouldnt expect Lloyds to provide such an explanation here, and this is 
not only because fraud prevention systems are being constantly updated and evolved by 
financial institutions in response to new information on potential threats, but also because if 
a bank were to explain to a customer how they could avoid having their account movements 
flagged by the fraud prevention systems, then this would potentially reduce the effectiveness 
of those systems and leave them open to manipulation.
Mr P feels that because hed had a similar incident previously with Lloyds, this payment into 
his shouldnt have been flagged for further checks. But it seems reasonable to me that banks 
would assess each account movement on its own merits. And as explained above, banks 
are expected to err on the side of caution in such situations, and so I dont feel that I can 
reasonably censure Lloyds here for doing so here.
This isnt to say that Mr P wasnt inconvenienced by what happened here, and it seems clear 
and obvious to me that he was. However, given Lloyds obligations in regard to account 
movements as described above, I hope Mr P will understand why I feel that, unfortunately, 
the inconvenience he experienced here was a necessary inconvenience, and so isnt 
something which I feel constitutes an unfair act. 
Additionally, its notable that Lloyds removed the restrictions from Mr Ps account the same 
day that they were added, and so I dont feel that Lloyds delayed resolving this situation or 
that Mr P was inconvenienced for longer than he reasonably should have been. 
Finally, Mr P has noted that Lloyds paid him compensation for a similar incident previously 
and feels that Lloyds response to this complaint is inconsistent with their prior admission of 
error. But Lloyds have confirmed to this service that, upon re-review of Mr Ps earlier 
complaint, they dont feel that they did act in error. And I remain satisfied that Lloyds havent 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in this instance. 
It follows from everything that Ive explained above that I wont be upholding this complaint 
or instructing Lloyds to take any further action here. Ultimately, Im satisfied that Lloyds didnt 
act unfairly by flagging the incoming amount for further checks. And while I acknowledge that 
this was inconvenient for Mr P, Im satisfied that this was a necessary inconvenience, given 
Lloyds wider obligations as explained above, and that Lloyds acted to resolve the situation in 
a reasonable time.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr P was wanting, but I hope that hell understand, 
given everything Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman