DRN-3463019
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about the way Admiral settled a third party claim against her car 
insurance policy. 
Mr C is representing Mrs C in her complaint.
What happened
A named driver under Mrs Cs car insurance policy was involved in an incident with another 
car. The named driver was driving outside the terms and conditions of Mrs Cs policy  and 
so Admiral said it wouldnt cover the claim. It was obliged to deal with the third party claim 
under the Road Traffic Act 1988 (RTA). 
Admiral settled the third party claim and looked to recover the costs from Mrs C in line with 
the policy. 
Mrs C complained to Admiral. She was unhappy with the level of costs. She questioned 
whether the third party vehicle (TPV) should have been written off and she thought the third 
party was in car hire for longer than necessary. 
Admiral upheld Mrs Cs complaint in part. It said it was responsible for a delay of 18 days in 
settling the third party claim. For this, it deducted the equivalent of 18 days car hire from the 
total costs it looked to recover from Mrs C. And for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by its delay, it paid Mrs C £150 compensation which it also deducted from the claim costs.  
Mrs C remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. 
Our Investigator thought Admiral had acted reasonably. She found that the difference 
between the repair costs and the market value of the TPV was less than £50 and so its 
decision to pay the third party a total loss settlement was fair. She thought Admirals decision 
to reduce the costs of car hire by 18 days to reflect the delay it caused was reasonable. So 
she didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
Mrs C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary she says the length 
of time the third party was in car hire was still excessive after the deduction of 18 days for 
Admirals delay. Mrs C remains unhappy as she feels Admiral hasnt been transparent in the 
settlement of the third party claim costs for modifications. 
I issued a provisional decision on 19 April 2022. I thought it was reasonable for Admiral to 
have settled the third party claim by three weeks. And so I didnt think it fair for Admiral to 
charge Mrs C for the duration of third party car hire costs beyond this time. 
I provisionally recommended Admiral reduce the car hire costs to 21 days. This meant a 
reduction in the claim costs Mrs C owed by £234.91. 
I thought Admiral had otherwise dealt with Mrs Cs complaint reasonably. 
Admiral didnt respond to my provisional decision. But when Id asked for clarification around 
its 18 day delay, Admiral accepted that it could have settled the claim within three weeks. 
Mr C on behalf of Mrs C accepted most of what Id provisionally decided. But he says there 
is no clear confirmation that it was reasonable for Admiral to pass on claim costs for the third 
partys car for modifications including a personalised number plate. Mr C has asked whether 
Admiral properly checked if the modifications had been declared by the third party under 
their policy. Mr C says he has read that some insurers treat a private plate as a modification. 
So Mr C would like confirmation its reasonable for Admiral to have passed on these 
particular costs. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs C remain unhappy about the level of third party claim costs. Our 
role is to look at whether Admiral dealt with the claim reasonably and in line with the policy 
terms. In line with data protection, Admiral hasnt shared some requested information about 
the third party with Mrs C. 
In my provisional decision I said that Admiral had shown this service that it asked the third 
party for evidence of the modifications to their car. On receipt of this, it included the 
modifications in the revised total loss settlement it paid the third party. Admiral deducted the 
salvage fee it received for the TPV from the claim costs it looks to recover from Mrs C. 
It isnt my role to speculate on the actions of the third party insurer  irrespective of who that 
insurer is. I can only consider Admirals actions as the RTA insurer for the claim. 
Im satisfied Admiral took into account modifications to the third party vehicle. So I think it 
was reasonable for Admiral to pass on these costs to Mrs C. 
As the third party disputed the first settlement offer Admiral made, this meant the claim took 
longer to settle. This had an impact on the length of time the third party was in car hire.  
Admiral paid for car hire for the third party for 52 days  from 23 September 2019 to 13 
November 2019. In response to Mrs Cs complaint, Admiral accepted that it had caused a 
delay of 18 days in settling the third party claim. For this failing, it awarded Mrs C £150 
compensation and reduced the claim costs by £325.26, being the equivalent cost of 18 days 
car hire at £18.07 a day. 
Admiral made a final increased total settlement offer to the third party on 6 November 2019 
and advised them that car hire would end on 13 November 2019. 
Before issuing my provisional decision, I asked Admiral to provide further information to 
show its reduction of car hire costs by 18 days was reasonable. I thought a reasonable 
period of time to settle this claim was around three weeks. 
In response, Admiral accepts that it should have made an interim payment for the total loss 
settlement to the third party on 6 October 2019 (two weeks after the incident) and given 
seven days notice of hire car ending then. 
So in line with my provisional decision, I think Admiral hasnt done enough to resolve Mrs Cs 
complaint. I think Admiral should reduce the third party car hire car costs further to 21 days. I 
dont think its fair for Mrs C to cover the costs of car hire beyond this as I think Admiral could 
have ended car hire sooner than it did. 
As Admiral has already deducted 18 days of car hire costs, this means I think Admiral should 
deduct a further 13 days of costs at a total of £234.91.  (52-18-13 = 21 days)
I think the compensation amount of £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
delay in handling the claim is fair and in line with awards we give for similar cases. Aside 
from the delay, I think Admiral overall dealt with the third party claim reasonably. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to deduct £234.91 from the total claim costs it is looking to recover from Mrs C. This 
means Admiral can only ask Mrs C to cover 21 days of car hire for the third party. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman