DRN-4050974
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy with U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) handling and
settlement of a claim made under her home insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2021 during a storm, damage was caused to the main roof and an outbuilding
roof at Miss Ds property. So, Miss D made a claim to UKI, her home insurance provider.
UKI appointed their agent to inspect the damage and accepted the claim for the main roof
and outbuilding roof. Parts were ordered by UKIs agent, and a later appointment made to
complete repairs.
In March 2022 Miss D discovered the outbuilding roof was being replaced with a metal
corrugated roof. She was unhappy with this, and with UKIs agents handling of her claim, so
she cancelled the appointment for repairs.
UKI suggested Miss D obtain her own quote for repairs, which she did and submitted to UKI
for consideration. UKI subsequently offered a cash settlement, which they said was in line
with their costs to carry out repairs, minus the cost of the metal roof which had already been
ordered and delivered.
Miss D complained to UKI about the reduced settlement offer and handling of her claim. UKI
maintained the cash settlement offer was correct but offered £100 compensation for the
service Miss D had received.
As Miss D remained unhappy, she approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. She said that the type of
replacement roof hadnt been discussed with Miss D prior to order, but it shouldve been
given it was different to what was already there. So, she said it wasnt fair for UKI to deduct
the costs from the settlement amount.
Instead the investigator said UKI should carry out the repair works to the outbuilding using
fibre cement sheets and repair the main roof. She also said UKI should collect the metal
sheets.
The investigator also said UKI should increase the compensation from £100 to £400 due to
the delays and overall service Miss D received.
As UKI didnt agree, and Miss D didnt respond to the investigators assessment or
recommendations, the case was passed to me to decide.
I was minded to reach a slightly different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a 
provisional decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings, 
before I reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same outcome as our investigator. But Im 
minded to direct UKI to do something different to put things right. Therefore, Im 
issuing a provisional decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my 
initial findings, before I reach my final decision.
Firstly, Im not considering the internal damage here. This is because this complaint 
only relates to the external roof damage - to both the main roof and outbuilding roof. 
This was what was addressed by UKI in their final response dated 19 July 2022.
UKI has told Miss D it will consider whether internal damage has been caused, or 
been made worse, due to its delays and whether any settlement is due for this. If 
Miss D remains unhappy after this regarding the internal damage, shed need to raise 
this with UKI in the first instance, then to this service as a new separate complaint  
subject to our usual rules and timescales.
Miss D first reported storm damage to both her main roof and outbuilding roof in
November 2021 and UKI appointed their claims agent to inspect the damage. UKI 
has accepted the external damage to both the main and outbuilding roofs were 
caused by a storm and so is covered under Miss Ds policy. So, I dont need to 
decide whether the roof claims or damage are covered under the policy.
UKIs agent first inspected the roof in November 2021 but the report wasnt 
completed until January 2022. The claim was accepted, and parts were ordered in 
January 2022 with a repair scheduled to take place in March 2022. This is some 
months apart and after the first inspection, and from UKIs file, delays appear to be 
due to how busy their claims agent was at the time. However, I can see why Miss D 
was unhappy with the time it was taking, given the roof damage remained during this 
time, and she needed to chase UKI as she wasnt updated.
In March 2022 Miss D became aware that the damaged outbuilding roof, which was
corrugated cement previously, was due to be replaced with a metal corrugated sheet 
by UKIs contractors. Miss D was unhappy with this proposal due to how noisy a 
metal roof would be. She raised this with UKI, and they suggested Miss D obtain her 
own repair quotes instead.Miss D obtained a quote for the outbuilding roof to be replaced at a cost of £4,200 
and the main roof repairs at a cost of £850. This was submitted to UKI.
UKI ultimately offered a cash settlement of £1,988.88 before excess (£250) 
deduction. This was made up of £3,700.13 which UKI said would be the costs of 
repairs to them, but they also deducted £1,711.25 for the metal roof which had 
already been ordered and delivered as they said it couldnt be returned.
The timeline provided by both parties isnt entirely clear on the sequence of events. 
The metal roof sheets were delivered to Miss Ds home. Due to being unhappy with 
the proposed repair, Miss D cancelled UKIs contractors at some point. But it isnt 
clear whether that was before or after the delivery of the metal sheets. But what is 
clear is that Miss D became aware they were going to be metal on 14 March 2022 
and they werent delivered until 28 March 2022 having been ordered back in January 
2022. In any event, I dont think that sequence of events, including when delivery and 
cancellation happened changes anything overall. Ill explain why.
Miss D previously had corrugated cement roof sheets on her outbuilding. These 
contained asbestos, so an exact replacement wouldnt have been possible. Instead 
UKIs agent arranged for metal corrugated sheets as a replacement. But despite our 
investigator asking, UKI hasnt provided any evidence to show the metal replacement 
was ever discussed with Miss D at any point beforehand. Given the fabric of the roof 
was being completely changed, I think this should have been discussed with Miss D 
and agreed to by her in the first instance.
Miss D is unhappy with a metal roof due to the potential noise of it. Instead, her own 
quote was for fibre cement corrugated sheets. In my view that is a closer match to 
what was in place beforehand. Given the significant change to metal, when other 
closer matches were available, I think this significant change should have been 
discussed with Miss D  but based on what Ive seen, it wasnt.
If it had been discussed, Im persuaded Miss D wouldnt have agreed to it as she 
later didnt, and consequently the metal roof wouldnt have been ordered by UKIs 
agents. On this basis, I dont think it is fair to deduct the costs to UKI/their agents of 
this metal roof, which Miss D never agreed to, from the settlement amount being 
offered to her. I also dont think the overall cash settlement is fair either, even if the 
metal roof wasnt deducted. Ill explain why.
There is a £250 excess is in the policy, so I dont think that is an unreasonable 
deduction as Miss D is making a claim. UKI says it would have cost £3,700.13 before 
excess for it to carry out repairs (if the metal sheeting wasnt deducted) so they have 
offered this amount, rather than meeting Miss Ds own quote. UKI say this is in line 
with the policy terms for cash settlements:
How we settle claims
If the buildings are damaged by any of the causes listed in (Section 1) we will 
either:
Repair or rebuild the damaged part using our suppliers
Pay to repair or rebuild the damaged part using your suppliers
Make a cash paymentIf we can repair or rebuild the damaged part, but we agree to use your 
suppliers or make a cash payment, we will only pay you what it would have 
cost us using our suppliers and therefore the amount you receive may be 
lower than the cost charged by your suppliers.
However, I dont think it is fair here for UKI to limit the settlement to their own costs, 
even without the deduction of the metal sheets.
Firstly, UKI hasnt provided this service (or Miss D) with a breakdown of how this 
settlement was calculated by them, so Im not persuaded UKI has demonstrated this 
is the costs they would incur to carry out works. But regardless, the cash settlement 
limited to UKIs costs is applicable in the terms where UKI agree to cash settlement 
but couldve carried out repairs, but I dont think its fair to settle the claim in this way 
here.
Our investigator recommended UKI carry out repairs to the outbuilding roof with fibre 
cement sheets and the main roof repairs, rather than cash settling. But from my 
understanding, from Miss Ds submissions to this service, she would rather a cash 
settlement in line with her own repair quotes.
Its clear here that the service Miss D has received hasnt been in line with her 
reasonable expectations. UKI accepts its agent has handled things poorly, there 
were delays and poor communication throughout, and as talked about above, the 
proposed repairs were never discussed with Miss D despite the significant change in 
roof materials.
So, I can understand why Miss D is unhappy with UKIs handling of things and would 
rather a cash settlement, rather than UKIs own contractors carrying out repairs. And 
I think that is a reasonable way for UKI to settle the claim here given what has 
happened. With this in mind, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to 
my provisional decision, Im minded to direct UKI to pay a cash settlement based on 
the costs to Miss D, rather than restricting the cash settlement to what it would cost 
them.
But I should also be clear that Miss Ds quote was submitted to UKI in May 2022. So, 
Im unsure if that quote is still valid, and if Miss D can get the works completed for 
that amount given the time that has passed. Therefore, Im minded to direct UKI to 
cash settle the claim at the costs to Miss D. This means that UKI will need to pay the 
repair quote Miss D has already submitted, unless Miss D can evidence it has 
increased due to the time that has passed since then.
UKI will also need to arrange collection of the metal roof if it still remains at Miss Ds
property.
Our investigator also recommended UKI increase the level of compensation from 
£100 to £400. She said this was on the basis of delays in the claim handling and lack 
of discussion about the roof replacement. UKI disagreed and said the claim was with 
its agent for several months, but there were severe storm events then which had 
impacted things.I recognise UKIs agents may have been busy, but this has resulted in Miss Ds claim 
being delayed, and during this time there was poor communication as already 
recognised by UKI. And issues arose as a result of the proposed outbuilding roof 
replacement not being discussed with Miss D, and there were also no repairs carried 
out to the main roof either. 
As a result of the delays, Miss D had to obtain her own quote for repair, which UKI 
didnt accept, and offered an, in my view, unfair settlement with an unreasonable 
deduction. This has all resulted in the claim, which in my view should have been 
straightforward, being prolonged, and Im minded to agree with our investigator that 
£400 compensation is a fairer amount in the circumstances.
Therefore I was minded to uphold the complaint and to direct UKI to cash settle Miss Ds 
claim for the outbuilding and main roof in line with her costs (but UKI can deduct the excess), 
remove the metal sheets from Miss Ds property and increase compensation to £400.
The responses to my provisional decision
Miss D responded to my provisional decision accepting it. She also said shed had some 
works done to the flooring and wiring.
UKI responded to say they had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision. Having 
done so, as neither party has provided anything which would lead me to depart from my 
provisional findings, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, and for 
the same reasons.
Ill also clarify that Miss D has mentioned she has completed some works to the flooring and 
rewiring. However, here Ive only considered the outbuilding and main roof. 
As outlined in my provisional decision, UKI has said it will consider if internal damage has 
been caused or made worse due to their delays. If Miss D remains unhappy after UKI has 
done this, shed need to raise this with UKI in the first instance, then to this service as a new 
complaint  subject to our usual rules and timescales.My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited trading as 
Direct Line to:
Cash settle Miss Ds claim for the outbuilding and main roof in line with her costs 
(the excess can be deducted in line with the policy terms)
Remove the metal sheeting from Miss Ds property
Increase the compensation from £100 to £400
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman