DRN-4071577
The complaint
Mr S has complained about his motor insurer Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited because 
it has accused him of fraud, cancelled his policy, declined his claim for theft of his cars 
wheel and is demanding its outlay of around £2,500 be reimbursed.
What happened
In April 2022 Mr S found his wheel had been taken from his car. He noticed damage to the 
car too. He made a claim to Admiral. Admiral felt the nature of the theft was unusual, and its 
experts felt that the damage identified likely wouldnt have been caused by thieves taking the 
wheel. Admiral felt Mr S was acting fraudulently. So it told him so, declined his claim and 
cancelled his policy. It noted it had spent £2,720 on the claim so far, which included hire car 
costs, it asked Mr S to reimburse this sum. 
Subsequently Mr S found alternate insurance elsewhere, at an increased cost. Mr S 
complained, not least about having to bear the cost of repairing the damage to his car, to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator felt Admiral hadnt shown its fraud allegation had been fairly and reasonably 
made. She said it should remove the record of fraud, as well as any cancellation markers, 
consider the claim, stop recovery action for it outlay and pay Mr S £500 compensation. She 
later told both parties that compensation for Mr Ss loss of use of his car as well as 
reimbursement of his increased policy premium plus interest, should be paid by Admiral too. 
Mr S said hed sold the car rather than repairing it and the premium for his partners policy 
had increased too. He said this was likely because of the fraud allegation as he was a 
named driver. Admiral said it would want to see if the cancellation itself had affected any 
premium Mr S had been charged. It said that if the Ombudsman decision remains in line with 
the Investigators view, it will set up a new claim for each of the pieces of damage identified 
by Mr S, with an excess applying for each. 
Admiral though otherwise objected to the findings. It said there had been several areas of 
damage Mr S had pointed out to it. It didnt think he could have been unaware of all of them, 
such that he had merely mistakenly suggested they were related to the theft. It said there 
were then a number of implausible issues within the detail of the theft itself, including that it 
seems the thieves could have taken the car itself, but instead they took a lot of risk to spend 
time with the car on the drive stealing just one wheel. 
Our Investigator reviewed matters. She felt that Admiral had not shown the theft happened in 
a way contrary to the cover allowed on the policy nor that Mr S had done anything, such as 
having left the car unlocked, to mean Admiral would likely not be liable for the loss. She 
wasnt minded to change her view on the complaint. Admiral, therefore, asked for an 
Ombudsmans consideration.  
The complaint was passed to me. I noted Mr S had had access to another car in his 
household. So I asked our Investigator to let both parties know I wouldnt be minded to make 
a loss of use award in this instance.
In reply, Mr S said his partner often worked away, although he was sometimes able to 
borrow her car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the circumstances of this theft. I understand that Admiral has concerns about 
it  that maybe the wheel wasnt stolen by thieves at all. And that certainly a lot of the 
damage Mr S identified with the car after the accident was unlikely to be related in any event 
to a theft of a wheel. But Admiral has accused Mr S of fraud. Fraud is a serious allegation to 
be levelled against a policyholder, with such having potentially significant consequences for 
them. As such, when an insurer accuses a policyholder of fraud, this service expects that to 
be supported by strong evidence. If it isnt, then its unlikely well find the accusation was 
fairly and reasonably made.
What will equate to strong evidence will depend upon the circumstances and relevant issues 
of each case. But in general terms an insurer, siting a list of worries or concerns, will likely 
not equate to strong evidence of a fraud having occurred. 
Bearing that in mind, I note that Admiral thinks Mr S cant have just been mistaken about the 
damage it believes is not related to the theft. Rather Admiral thinks Mr S must have been 
aware of this damage, pre-existing the reported incident, and had, therefore, tried to claim a 
benefit for it under the policy. If, and I emphasise that word, if that were the case, Admiral 
would also have to show that was a benefit Mr S was not otherwise entitled to  i.e. that the 
damage just wasnt covered by the policy or it was excluded from cover for some reason. 
But the notable damage in question is some scratches and a dent on the rear bumper, with 
also some slight soiling to the dark seat cover along with indentation marks in the door pad. 
Im not persuaded Admiral has reasonably shown Mr S most likely knew of this damage 
before it was noted when the theft damage was considered.  
I understand that Admiral is also concerned that the theft is unlikely to have happened in the 
way suggested. That it thinks a thief wouldve done something differently; likely stolen the 
car, instead of spending time and taking significant risks to just steal the wheel. But it hasnt 
presented evidence in support of that contention. And Im not persuaded its reasonable for 
Admiral to base such an important decision, that Mr S acted fraudulently, on speculation of 
criminal intent. 
I know Admiral has shown that entry to the car (to obtain the locking nuts for the wheel) 
wasnt forced. So I can understand it thinks this must mean it was left unlocked. With cover 
for theft in such an instance being excluded. However, it hasnt persuasively refuted Mr Ss 
contention that a device was likely used. Mainly relying on its belief that if a device had been 
available to the thieves, theyd have stolen the car itself. Seemingly the police thought use of 
a device was likely and even Admiral acknowledged entry to Mr Ss car could have been 
gained in this way. Interestingly, Admiral has confirmed that it did not opt to investigate what 
detail the keys or the cars ECU held, with the car featuring keyless entry. So its seems 
likely that a device could have been used to gain entry to Mr Ss car.    
So I think Admiral has not done enough to show that Mr S attempted to make a gain from it 
for something he was not entitled to under the policy. As such, Admiral will now need to do a 
number of things to put matters right. Including ceasing recovery action on the claims costs it 
is looking to recover.Admiral will also need to reimburse Mr Ss increased premium costs for any new policy he 
took for the car subject of the claim (which he later sold). It doesnt actually matter whether 
the cancellation was declared or not, or even whether the new insurer rated on the claim. 
Mr S only had to pay for a different more expensive policy, where the claim could be rated 
for, because of Admirals unfair and unreasonable cancellation. Otherwise his costs would 
have remained the same to the date Admirals policy was due to renew or the car was sold. 
The sale of the car would change the cover and cost, and my award only applies to any 
cover Mr S took for the car subject of this claim to the point it was sold. Its not clear to me 
that Mr Ss partners insurance, the cost of which increased at renewal in 2023, was 
impacted by the fraud accusation and policy cancellation. In any event, this decision shows 
that Admirals accusation and cancellation on grounds of fraud was unfair and unreasonable. 
So Mr S can show this decision to his partners insurer if he wishes to and ask it to re-rate 
the cover.
Mr S was unhappy about Admiral removing the hire car and leaving him without a vehicle. 
But Mr S has now said he is a named driver on his partners cover. Bearing this in mind it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to make a loss of use award. Such applies when there is no 
access to another car, but that clearly wasnt the case here, although I note that Mr S says 
his partners car was not always available to him. I appreciate that without a car for his sole 
use, it would have been difficult for Mr S to get to work and to visit a sick family member. But 
Admiral gave him notice it was withdrawing the hire car so he reasonably should have made 
arrangements to mitigate any financial losses, which would have been easier for him with 
another car in the household. And the £500 compensation Ive awarded applies in respect of 
distress and inconvenience caused by Admirals unfair and unreasonable actions. I think that 
is a reasonable sum in the circumstances. 
I note Admirals statement that it will now, following my final decision, set up a claim for each 
of the pieces of damage Mr S identified to it, which it had found were not theft related. If Mr S 
is unhappy about that, or wishes to continue to claim for these areas of damage, and is 
unhappy with how Admiral deals with the claim or claims, that would need to be raised 
separately as its not something I will comment on in this decision.   
 
Putting things right
I require Admiral to:
Remove the record of the fraud and cancellation marker from its own and any external 
database. If needs be, it can amend the cancellation marker to show the policy was 
cancelled by Mr S.
Reimburse any extra costs Mr S can show he incurred for insuring his car (before he 
sold it) during the period the policy with Admiral should have been in place (would have 
been but for its unfair cancellation). With interest being added to any reimbursed sum 
from the date that cost was incurred by Mr S until settlement is made.
Consider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Cease recovery action for its outlay.
Pay Mr S £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require Admiral to take off tax from this 
interest. If asked, it must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to provide the redress 
set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman