DRN-1384590
 
Complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2004 in connection with a credit card. Mrs P says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
trading as Barclaycard mis-sold her the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 
I think Barclays made it clear that Mrs P didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this. The 
PPI appears to have been sold on the phone. Barclays no longer have a copy of the 
call recording  this is understandable given how long ago the sale took place. But it 
has provided us with a call script from around the time of the sale which shows that 
the policy would have been presented as optional and that the representative would 
have been required to get Mrs Ps consent before PPI could be applied to the 
account. 
 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs P so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P.
 
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P because: 
 When the policy was sold, Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs P about that. 
Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs P, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
Ive thought about everything Mrs P has said - including what she has about her existing 
repayment provisions. But these points dont change my decision. The PPI policy would 
have paid out in addition to Mrs Ps sick pay and would also have paid out if she lost her job 
 for up to 12 months per claim. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs P.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs P any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman