DRN-4130978
The complaint
Mr L complains that his account was closed by National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
What happened
Mr L had an account with NatWest with an overdraft facility of £800. On 6 October 2022, the 
balance was £483 debit. On 7 October 2022, NatWest wrote to him and gave 60 days notice 
that his account was to be closed. The letter also said the overdraft should be repaid within 
30 days of the letter - i.e. 6 November 2022. The overdraft facility was then cancelled.
On  7 November 2022, the balance was £542 debit. A payment from DWP for £324 was 
received into the account on 10 November 2022  the balance was then £218 debit. On 13 
November 2022  a payment to Mr Ls broadband provider was returned unpaid.
On 22 November 2022, a further credit from DWP for £324.91 was paid in  the balance was 
then £92.97 credit.
Mr Ls account was closed on 8 December 2022.
Mr L complained. He said NatWest had behaved heartlessly  as theyd taken his DWP 
payments and then cancelled his overdraft. So effectively, he had lost the benefit of the 
DWP payments - he said NatWest had stolen the money.
Mr L said NatWest had told him in the closure letter that full services would be allowed up 
until the account closed on 7 December 2022  i.e. 60 days from 7 October 2022. And so  
he said theyd not honoured that agreement as theyd removed the overdraft limit after only 
30 days. So he was left with only the credit balance of £92 to live off and had lost his 
broadband services. He said NatWest hadnt given him the reasons his account was to be 
closed  he had been a customer for 27 years and deserved better treatment. This had led 
to a high degree of stress and inconvenience. He said he was going through a difficult period 
of unemployment, and NatWest behaved unreasonably.
NatWest sent several final responses. Some of these referred to other complaint points that 
Mr L raised with them. But on the issues Mr L brought to us, NatWest didnt uphold his 
complaint and said:
- They could close an account at any time if they wished and didnt have to give a 
reason. Theyd given 60 days notice in writing. This was in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
- They could remove an overdraft facility if they wished. This was also in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account. This led to the payment to Mr Ls broadband 
provider being returned unpaid.
Mr L brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said NatWest acted reasonably. NatWest 
could close his account and remove the overdraft facility if they wished  this was in the 
terms and conditions of the account. And the overdraft was repayable on demand. The letter 
sent on 7 October 2022 was clear about closing the account and removing the overdraft 
after 30 days. Overall, he said Mr L was given sufficient notice about what was going to 
happen.
Mr L asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint, and so it has come to me to do that 
and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that Mr L was in some financial difficulty  he told us he was unemployed at 
the time. It looks like he relied on the overdraft facility to make ends meet, together with the 
benefit payments from DWP. I can therefore see how what happened couldve been 
frustrating and inconvenient.
But equally, NatWests terms and conditions do say that an account can be closed at any 
time. These say they can close an account immediately; or give 60 days notice in other 
cases. And they dont need to explain the reasons behind the decision. The terms say: We 
can also close any other account by giving you at least 60 days notice. We will explain our 
reasons for closing your account unless theres a legal or security reason which means we 
cant provide an explanation. There will, however, be situations where it may not be 
appropriate or permissible for us to engage with you to explain our reasoning.
The terms and conditions also say any overdraft must be repaid  they say When your 
account is closed: If your account is closed (either by us or on your instruction), youll have 
to pay any charges for services youve used before your account closes (for example, if 
youve used an arranged overdraft, in addition to any overdrawn balance youll need to pay 
any interest due for using the overdraft).
The terms and conditions also say the overdraft is payable on demand  Your arranged 
overdraft is not for a fixed period of time, however its repayable on demand. This means 
that we can ask you to repay the full amount at any time. We may also decide to reduce your 
arranged overdraft limit or end your overdraft agreement. Well only take these steps if we 
have a valid reason (for example, we reasonably believe that you cant afford your arranged 
overdraft). So - NatWest could withdraw the overdraft at any time.
I looked at the letter dated 7 October 2022. I think it was clear as it said we have reached 
a difficult decision that we will no longer be able to provide you with banking facilities. In line 
with our terms and conditions and to allow you to make alternative banking arrangements, 
your accounts will be closed 60 days from the date of this letter on 6 December 2022. While 
your accounts remain open we will continue to provide you with a full banking service. So  
NatWest gave 60 days notice to Mr L, which I think was reasonable.
Mr L argues that this means he shouldve kept the overdraft facility until 6 December 2022 
under the terms of the letter. I considered his point here. And I saw that the letter went on: if 
you have any outstanding borrowing arrangements with us, you will need to make 
arrangements to repay the full amount in the next 30 days as the facility will be removed.
So  I think this was also clear. And therefore NatWest acted reasonably when they 
cancelled the overdraft facility on 6 November 2022  after 30 days. I accept this meant that 
the payment to Mr Ls broadband provider was returned, and the credits from DWP were 
used to repay Mr Ls overdraft  which left him short of money. But  Im satisfied NatWest 
had set this out clearly in the letter they sent  and they gave Mr L enough notice to make new banking arrangements.
More generally, NatWest have explained the circumstances behind their decision to close Mr 
Ls account. Ive reviewed these and looked at Mr Ls account history. And Im satisfied that 
NatWest acted reasonably in taking the decision they did.
Therefore, while I know Mr L will be disappointed by my decision; Im not going to ask 
NatWest to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman