DRN-1829917
The complaint
Mr G complains that Capital One (Europe) plc has unfairly registered a marker at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
Mr G says that when he tried to open a new account with his bank in 2019 he found out that 
Capital One had registered the marker in 2016. His bank closed his existing account too. 
When he complained to Capital One he was only told that this related to payment 
irregularities and its internal lending policy. But it hadnt explained what this related to.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that he wasnt able 
to share the details of the CIFAS marker as this was sensitive information. He explained the 
role of CIFAS and the basis on which a marker could be added. He said he was satisfied 
that this maker had been added correctly. 
Mr G said he had looked at his statements for 2016 and realised that the regular payments 
to his account that had been made by his partner in 2016 had been reversed. He considered 
that his partner had made a malicious report as they had a difficult break up. Given the time 
that has passed he said he isnt in a position to provide more information to support this. He 
stressed that he hasnt been involved in fraud and has run his accounts including at his other 
bank to a good standard. He has health issues and he cant manage without a bank account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Capital One 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
Ive listened to a call Mr G had with Capital One when he raised his complaint. And I 
appreciate that he has had health issues which have affected his ability to deal with things. 
He was told that Capital One had written to him about the payment irregularities in 2016 but 
he said he cant remember this and thought that any entries on his account related to 
interest applied. And he didnt know there was a problem until his bank refused to open a 
new account for him and told him his existing account would be closed.
As our investigator has said we and Capital One are limited in what we can say where 
information relates to fraud. I can understand how frustrating that is for Mr G, but I can 
assure him that we do look at all the available information when we undertake our 
independent review of what happened. Ive also considered what Mr G has now said about 
what he thinks happened as the regular payments made to his account were reversed. But 
he accepts he doesnt have any information to support that those payments were legitimate 
although I know he is adamant that any accusation of fraud would have been a malicious 
one.
So, Im afraid having considered this matter carefully I conclude that Capital One didnt make 
a mistake when it added the marker at CIFAS. I dont have a reasonable basis to require it to 
do anything more. I fully appreciate how disappointed Mr G will be by my decision given 
what hes explained he thinks are the consequences of the marker for him.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman