DRN-2940246
The complaint
Mr M complains about the overall handling by Assurant General Insurance Limited for his 
mobile phone insurance claims.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Im not persuaded that the time taken to assess Mr Ms claim  just over one week  
was unreasonable. Each claim is different, as is its investigation. Here, I dont think 
Assurant acted unfairly when it asked for more information and reviewed things in 
more detail, to make sure it reached the right decision. 
In saying this, Ive considered what Mr Ms said about his and his sons mental health 
 and I can see how that meant theyd be anxious for a replacement. But, taking this 
into account, I still think Assurant moved things along promptly. I realise that the 
claims process here  requesting more information and the review  was difficult for 
Mr M and his son to go through. But I dont think Assurant couldve avoided these 
steps when they were needed to assess the claim fairly. 
Mr M says he never received calls or emails from Assurant; he was the one chasing. 
Based on the notes it provided, I can see calls were attempted but unsuccessful, and 
emails were sent informing him of its progression of his claim. So I dont think its 
communication was unreasonable. And, given the review, I think it was 
understandable that Assurant couldnt say for certain what the outcome would be and 
when hed hear. 
I appreciate Mr M purchased another phone whilst Assurant decided the claim. 
Thats because he had concerns about being able to keep in touch with his son, and 
he was unsure how long the claim was going to take. But I think Assurant did keep 
him updated and progressed the matter in a timely manner. And because theres no 
option under Mr Ms policy for settling claims in cash, I dont think Assurant are 
responsible for this cost. 
Mr Ms also unhappy with the excess  he says he can get a replacement phone for 
that cost. His policy made it clear that hell need to pay this for Assurant to settle the 
claim, as did the claim form. So Im satisfied it was part of the cover Mr M agreed to. 
If Mr M thinks its a bad deal, he doesnt have to go ahead with the claim and hes 
able to look elsewhere for cover. 
Ive noted that Mr M also had concerns about another claim  that he was given an 
iPhone 7 Plus to replace an iPhone 7. He said it was too big for his sons hands. But 
theres nothing to support that he raised this with Assurant at the time, and that it 
didnt offer to help. And as the device was since used and lost, Assurant can no 
longer change things. So Im not persuaded it acted unfairly here. 
Mr M also raised how Assurants automated response email showed a question mark 
in error. It provided an apology for this mistake which I consider fair in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
Mr final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Assurant General Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman