DRN-3688619
The complaint
Mrs L brings a complaint on behalf of herself and her late husbands estate (Mr L) about 
Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision not to pay its claim.
This complaint was brought by a third-party representative but for simplicity, Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by Mrs L personally. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L were on holiday in France, when sadly, Mr L died. Mr L was swimming in the 
sea when he appeared to get into trouble with the strong rip tide currants. The cause of Mr 
Ls death was described as a heart attack which for the purposes of this claim, was 
considered a natural cause of death. Its on this basis that Aviva declined the claim. Mr and 
Mrs L had travel medical insurance with Aviva. 
Mrs L would like Aviva to pay the claim, but because Avivas policy doesnt offer cover for 
death caused by a natural occurrence, no cover was offered. 
Our investigator upheld this complaint and recommended Aviva pay 50% of the benefit 
amount and £300 compensation for the overall handling of the claim. He said there were 
unnecessary delays which in turn, caused Mrs L distress. Aviva agreed to pay the 
compensation but not accept liability for the claim. 
Aviva disagreed and said that the medical evidence states Mr Ls cause of death was a heart 
attack and that he had coronary artery disease. And so, its for me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it and for the same reasons explained by our 
investigator. Im persuaded that Mr Ls cause of death was accidental and whether it was 
primarily caused by the heart attack, or drowning, doesnt persuade me that Aviva should not 
pay half the claim. Ill explain why. 
Avivas terms say;
The policy provides cover for death benefit as follows:-
Accidental death or permanent disability
We will cover you if you suffer a serious accidental bodily injury during your trip which 
requires immediate and urgent medical attention and leads solely, directly and independently 
of any other cause to:
 your death
What is not covered
1. Anything mentioned in the General exclusions section.
2. Any claim resulting from sickness, disease, nervous shock or degenerative process
Ive highlighted these terms because Im satisfied that Mr Ls death was accidental. Both 
sides of this complaint know the full background to this case and so I wont detail everything 
as part of my final decision, but, to summarise, Mr L got into difficulties whilst swimming in 
the sea. I explained to Aviva that there was enough persuasive evidence that supported the 
argument that Mr L was swimming alone and that he died during this activity. 
Aviva said the official cause of death was a heart attack and I agree thats what was stated 
on the death certificate. But there were other indications within the report which gave me 
pause for thought. In particular;
Trachea and main bronchi contained frothy secretionsOn sectioning, both exuded 
oedema fluid 
I find these comments persuasive that Mr L took on excessive fluid whilst swimming and so I 
find the argument that this contributed to his death persuasive. Though, I must highlight 
Avivas comments from its chief medical officer who challenged this statement and said that 
oedema fluid is also consistent with a heart attack. Whilst I acknowledge its argument and I 
agree this is consistent, the pathologist said that he was unable to determine what happened 
first, whether Mr L had a heart attack, or was drowning which in turn caused the heart attack. 
And so, its difficult for me to make a definitive finding on that point. Its because of this I 
must consider the wider circumstances which has prompted me to invoke our fair and 
reasonable remit and step outside of the policy terms by agreeing with our investigators 
opinion and award a 50% settlement.
Mrs L asked for additional comments from the Coroners Office about this and the 
pathologist said that he was unable to determine which occurred first, the heart attack or 
drowning. He also suggested that the circumstantial evidence supported the likely cause of 
the heart attack was accidental drowning. I find this persuasive when considered alongside 
the other contemporaneous evidence, such as witness testimony from the French doctor 
who recorded Mr Ls death as accidental drowning, which was also echoed by the police that 
attended the scene. 
And so, carefully considering these comments, alongside the death certificate and other 
contemporaneous evidence, I found that, on balance, Mr Ls death was accidental and that 
whether he drowned, or had a heart attack first, difficult to determine. Aviva made additional 
arguments about Mr Ls health prior to the accident. In summary, it said that Mr L had heart 
disease and Im satisfied that was the case given the pathologists comments about that. But 
I must carefully consider whether this was a contributory factor to Mr Ls death. Thats to say 
whether someone without a similar medical history would have been subject to the same 
outcome. This is very difficult to determine but given the circumstantial evidence from the 
local newspaper  which identified the area as one synonymous with many swimmers losing 
their lives because of strong tidal currents and rip tides  Im persuaded, on balance, that the 
topography and the overall ferocity of the sea also be a contributory factor to Mr Ls death.   
I cannot say one way or the other whether Mr L drowned, or had a heart attack first, but I 
acknowledge there are persuasive arguments for both scenarios. But for the purposes of my 
final decision I must make a finding. And so, my final decision is that Aviva should pay 50% 
of the benefit. I think this is fair given the pathologists comments that he was uncertain 
which occurred first, the medical evidence and witness testimony which suggested Mr L had 
drowned. Its fair that Aviva accept half the liability for this claim.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained and that Aviva Insurance 
Limited should now pay Mrs L and the estate of the late Mr L 50% of the claim and £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs L.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and the 
estate of Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman