DRN-4401482
The complaint
Miss L complains that Moneybarn No 1 Limited trading as Moneybarn agreed to lending that 
she couldnt afford.
Miss L is represented by a third party in bringing her complaint but for ease of reading I will 
only refer to Miss L in my decision.
What happened
In 2020 Miss L entered into a Conditional Sale agreement with Moneybarn for a car with a 
cash price of £8,295. Miss L paid a deposit of £295, with added interest the total amount 
repayable was £13,686.71, by instalments of £284.93 over 48 months.
Miss L said she had to have a car for work and family commitments, but after entering into 
the loan shed struggled to meet her credit commitments. She said she had to borrow on her 
credit cards, overdraft and other personal loans to meet them. And she now had a debt 
management plan to help her manage her finances. Miss L complained to Moneybarn as 
she said they hadnt done enough to determine she could afford the lending.
Moneybarn said theyd assessed the affordability of the lending for Miss L. Theyd checked 
her credit history, verified her income, and used statistical data to estimate Miss Ls          
non-discretionary expenditure. They said this showed Miss Ls borrowing levels were 
moderate, there hadnt been any missed payments, while there had been a default noted 
shortly before the application for lending this had been for a small amount. They said there 
werent any county court judgements. Taking all of this account, Moneybarn said they 
estimated Miss L had a disposable income each month of £594.68, so the repayment of 
£284.73 was affordable for her.
Miss L wasnt happy with Moneybarns response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said  the adverse information on Miss Ls credit file should have led 
Moneybarn to do further checks. But having checked Miss Ls bank statements to assess 
her actual income and expenditure, they said the lending was affordable as Miss L had 
sufficient disposable income to maintain her monthly instalment of £284.73.
Miss L didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide,
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Miss L will be disappointed by my decision but having done so I dont uphold her 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice when someone 
complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending. There are two overarching 
questions I need to consider deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
the complaint. These are:
1. Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves 
that  Miss L would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Moneybarn make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss L could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
2.  Did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Regulations in place at the time Moneybarn lent to Miss L required them to carry out a 
reasonable assessment of whether she could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable 
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused, meaning Moneybarn need to think 
about whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Miss L In other words, it wasnt enough for Moneybarn to think only about 
the likelihood that they would get their money back without considering the impact of 
repayment on Miss L herself.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are. But Id expect lenders 
to consider the specific circumstances of the loan application. What constitutes a 
proportionate affordability check will generally depend on several factors such as the specific 
circumstances of the borrower, their financial history, current situation and whether there are 
any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. 
So, Ive considered whether Moneybarn in lending to Miss L had been thorough in the 
checks they made. And whether theyve taken all these factors into account in deciding to 
lend to her.
Moneybarn said they checked Miss Ls credit history but havent provided us with the actual 
check but a summary of what they found. And have said they saw Miss L had  defaulted on 
previous borrowing, the most recent being shortly before the lending application. Relevant 
guidance, the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) covers the subject matter of the 
creditworthiness assessment. CONC 5.2A.11 says:
there may be circumstances in which the risk that one repayment will be missed or will 
be late is relevant to the creditworthiness assessment.
And as Miss L had recently defaulted on an account, and the amount of the default was low 
should have I think caused Moneybarn to look at Miss Ls actual financial circumstances 
rather than a reliance on statistical data.
This doesnt automatically mean Moneybarn shouldnt have lent to Miss L, as I need to 
consider whether these checks would have shown that the repayments were unaffordable 
for her  or in other words that she lost out because of Moneybarns failure to complete 
proportionate checks. I cant be sure exactly what Moneybarn would have found out if theyd 
asked. In the absence of anything else, I think it would be reasonable to place significant 
weight on the information set out in Miss Ls bank statementsIve reviewed bank statements covering a period of three months leading up to Miss L 
applying for and being granted the finance. These show that Miss Ls income, including her 
benefit payments and a regular income of £500 averaged around £2937 a month. More than 
the £2,100 used by Moneybarn in their assessment.
I can see several transactions in Miss Ls account from what appear to be family members. 
But over the three months I can see Miss L paid more out to them than what was paid into 
her account. So, to reflect this Ive averaged over each month an average for the difference - 
£87 and considered this to be a regular expense.
In reviewing Miss Ls bank statements her non-discretionary expenditure (for example food, 
rent, utilities, telecoms, TV), including the £87 equates to an average each month of  £2,220. 
I consider this to have been inflated by the increase in Miss Ls spending on food in June 
2020 as this exceeded £1,000. And a monthly average of £110 spent on clothing and 
sportswear.
I also included some discretionary spending, which included a catalogue payment, monthly 
savings, a digital entertainment subscription and some gambling transactions. In considering 
Miss Ls gambling transactions, I can see that these were sporadic and had reduced 
significantly over the three months.
With taking these into account Miss Ls regular outgoings equated to an average of £2,496. 
This means I think Miss L would have had £441 disposable income, and after taking the 
repayment for the loan, £284.73, she would have had around £156 disposable income still 
available to her.
I did notice that Miss L was making regular use of her overdraft each month, and that there 
were very few occasions when her account wasnt using the overdraft facility. This meant 
Miss L incurred daily overdraft fees which Ive included in her regular expenditure above. But 
I have noted that over the three months Miss L had reduced how much of her overdraft she 
was using. 
Given the level of overdraft used wasnt escalating over time, I cant say that Miss Ls 
financial situation was getting significantly worse to the extent that Moneybarn granting her 
the finance would have been unfair.
And I can see Miss L was also spending money on non-essentials which I havent included 
in the income and expenditure assessment, as non-essential spending is at the discretion of 
Miss L to make or not. This spending I can see ranged from around £250 to £700 each 
month.
From the evidence Miss L has provided Im satisfied Miss L had sufficient funds to cover the 
repayment of her credit commitment with Moneybarn. And I can see that she has maintained 
her monthly repayments which supports this outcome. So, while I realise itll be disappointing 
for Miss L, I cant say Moneybarn has acted irresponsibly by agreeing to lend to her.
I dont know what Miss Ls  current circumstances are other than she has sought debt advice 
and is in a debt management plan. So, I would remind Moneybarn of their obligations to treat 
Miss L fairly and with due consideration and forbearance in the event she is in financial 
difficulties. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman