DRN-2753067
The complaint
Mr O and Mrs O complain that Calpe Insurance Company Limited avoided (treated it as if it 
never existed) their motor insurance policy and retained their premiums.
What happened
Mr O took out a motor insurance policy with Calpe online and then validated it through a 
broker. He added his wife, Mrs O, as a named driver. When he had an accident, he made a 
claim on his policy. 
But Calpe avoided his policy and kept the premiums hed already paid. When Mr O 
complained, it said hed answered the question hed been asked about his wifes previous 
driving convictions incorrectly. And that it considered this to be a deliberate or reckless 
qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid his policy. 
Mr O brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it should be upheld. He agreed 
there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. But he didnt think this was deliberate or 
reckless. He believed it was careless. And he thought Calpe hadnt shown that it wouldnt 
have offered cover for Mr O without his wife as named driver. 
He said Calpe should treat Mr Os policy as if it had been provided without the named driver, 
remove records of the avoidance and pay Mr O and Mrs O £150 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused. 
Calpe doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
Calpe thinks Mr O failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
stated in his application that his wife had just a CD10 motoring conviction. And Ive looked at 
the question he was asked when he completed the application and I agree he failed to take 
reasonable care. This is because he was asked what his wifes previous motoring 
convictions were. And in the sales call, Mr O was asked to confirm that the information hed 
given was correct. The details of the previous convictions were read out to him, but he didnt 
add to them. And so I think this was a clear question asked by Calpe through the online site 
and broker Mr O used.
Mr O declared that his wife had a CD10 conviction and 6 points on her licence from this. But 
he didnt add that the court had also added AC10 and AC20 convictions. Mr O said he 
wasnt aware of these. But I think the court would have informed his wife about them and it 
was for Mr O to check this with his wife. 
And I think this means Mr O failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he said his wife had only the CD10 conviction.
Calpe has provided evidence from its underwriters which shows that if Mr O had not made 
this misrepresentation it wouldnt have provided cover at all. This means that I am satisfied 
Mr Os misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
I also think Mr Os misrepresentation was a careless rather than reckless or deliberate 
misrepresentation. This is because I think Mr O disclosed all his own convictions and he 
disclosed his wifes conviction and points that he was aware of. I cant see that Calpe has 
shown that Mr O deliberately or recklessly failed to disclose the other two convictions that 
were linked to the same accident.  
But Im not satisfied Calpe was entitled to avoid Mr Os policy in accordance with CIDRA. 
CIDRA says that for a careless misrepresentation an insurer can only avoid the policy if it 
wouldnt have provided insurance on any terms. But Calpe hasnt shown that it wouldnt 
have offered cover to Mr O without his wife on the policy. It was Mrs O who had the 
unacceptable convictions. I think Calpe would have offered cover to Mr O without his wife as 
named driver. 
So I think Calpe should treat Mr Os policy as if it had been provided without his wife as 
named driver. Records of the avoidance will affect Mr Os future cover. So I think Calpe 
should remove all records of the avoidance and provide Mr O with a letter saying that the 
policy was avoided in error. 
The avoidance has caused Mr O to seek alternative cover and raise a complaint. I think 
Calpe should reasonably compensate him for this. The investigator recommended that it 
should pay Mr O £150 compensation for his trouble and upset. I think thats fair and 
reasonable as its in keeping with what Id require in similar situations. 
And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
not allowing Calpe to rely on it to avoid Mr Os policy produces the fair and reasonable 
outcome in this complaint. 
Putting things right
I require Calpe Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Treat Mr Os policy as if it had been provided to him without any named driver from inception;
2. Remove all records of Mr Os policy avoidance and provide him with a letter stating that 
his policy was avoided in error; and,
3. Pay Mr O £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience the avoided policy has 
caused him. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Calpe Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman