DRN-4316124
The complaint
Mr R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect him from the 
financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the money 
once hed reported the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr R was invited to join a telegram group which was run by someone claiming to be affiliated 
with a financial website. The broker advised the group to invest in cryptocurrency using a 
platform Ill refer to as G, describing the investment as a top-notch new energy finance 
product that combines the four innovative technologies of Natural Gas + Web 3.0 + 
Blockchain + Metaverse".
Mr R was sent a white paper which outlined the investment opportunity and after careful 
consideration he decided to invest. Between 23 November 2022 and 5 March 2023, Mr R 
made thirteen payments from his NatWest account to an account he held with a 
cryptocurrency exchange company totalling £121,401. The funds were then moved to an 
online wallet which he could monitor on Gs trading platform. 
When Mr R tried to check on his investment, he found it had been deleted, that Gs platform 
was no longer available and all the chat history on the telegram group had been deleted. At 
this point he realised he was the victim of an investment scam and complained to NatWest.
NatWest said there was nothing it could do because it wasnt the point of loss. It also said 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code wouldnt apply to the payments 
because they were to an account in Mr Rs name, so they werent covered by the code.
It said Mr R had made the payments using its secure online banking facility and there were 
no concerns at that time on the validity of the payments. It also said the payments werent 
unusual and didnt alert because they were genuine transactions made using Mr Rs secure 
online banking.
NatWest also explained it places appropriate and relevant warning messages across its 
online banking facility to warn customers about scams and before making a payment, and 
that a message is also displayed on its online banking facility. 
Mr Rs representative said the new and large transactions to a high-risk cryptocurrency 
merchant was a huge change of behaviour on the account. They said the maximum payment 
hed made previously was £10,000, yet the first of the disputed payments was £15,000, 
which was significantly larger than the previous largest investment.
They said NatWest should have questioned the payment as it was out of character and if it 
had intervened and asked questions around the purpose and circumstances of the payment, 
it would have been able to spot it had the red flags of a common cryptocurrency scam. They 
said the red flags included the fact Mr R was contacted on social media regarding the 
investment, he was told the returns would be over 100% and he was told hed have to pay a 
large amount of tax to make a withdrawal.
NatWest said it was unable to raise a chargeback request for the disputed debit card 
payments as the merchant had fulfilled their services. It also said Mr R would have been 
given a warning message urging him to check the transaction was genuine, and by 
acknowledging the warning message, he confirmed he was happy to proceed. 
NatWest also questioned whether Mr R had done adequate due diligence and maintained 
the payments werent flagged because hed previously made large payment from his 
account. And it said it was unable to recover the funds as the payments were sent to Mr Rs 
own wallet account. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld stating Mr R had previously 
made larger payments, so she didnt expect NatWest to have flagged the payments.  
She said Mr R had made several large transactions, for example £8,361, £50,000, and 
£50,000 on 31 January 2022, £49,000 on 31 March 2022, £42,000 on 1 April 2022, 
£9,972.01 on 14 April 2022, two payments of £10,000 on 3 May 2022, £8,000 on 6 May 
2022, £5,000 on 28 October 2022 and 10,003.12 on 1 November 2022. There was also 
£23,497.53 paid into the account on 26 April 2022, £14,991 on 18 May 2022, £41,845.04 on 
13 July 2022.
She didnt think the disputed payments were out of character when compared with the usual 
spending on the account, so she didnt think NatWest needed to intervene. And she said the 
CRM code didnt apply as funds were transferred into Mr Rs own cryptocurrency account 
and included card payments.
Mr R has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman arguing that even 
though there were large payments from the account, the disputed payments should have 
stood out because they were to new payees and related to cryptocurrency. He pointed out 
the previous payments were to HMRC, existing payees or UK based accounts. He accepted 
the £5,000 payment on 28 October 2022 did relate to an investment, but it explained it didnt 
relate to cryptocurrency and was considerably less than £15,000.
The representative argued the first payment was a payment to a cryptocurrency exchange 
which was larger than any previous transfer to a new payee, and Mr R was able to send 
£27,000 and £21,000 without any intervention. They said the other large payments were to 
existing payees for ISAs or to HMRC, so they were an entirely different profile to the 
disputed payments, so the disputed payments were unusual and should have triggered an 
intervention.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr R has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr R says theyve fallen victim to, in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. The CRM code didnt apply in this case because 
the payments were to an account in Mr Rs own name.Im satisfied Mr R authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, Mr R is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded the broker was operating 
as part of a scam. But, although Mr R didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did 
authorise the disputed payments. NatWest is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the 
victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them 
even though they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether NatWest could have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive 
seen, the payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, 
NatWest had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a 
wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr R when he 
tried to make the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id 
expect NatWest to intervene with a view to protecting Mr R from financial harm due to fraud. 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on NatWests systems. Ive considered the nature of 
the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr R 
normally ran his account, and I dont think they were. All the payments were to a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange company and, while I accept they were for large amounts, this 
wasnt unusual when compared to the usual spending on the account. Our investigator has 
explained that between 31 January 2022 and 1 November 2022, Mr R had made several 
large payments from the account, including three payments totalling £108,361 on 31 January 
2022 and £10,003.12 on 1 November 20221, which was only 22 days before the first of the 
disputed payments. There were also several large payments into the account.
Mr R and his representative have said these payments cant be compared to the disputed 
payments because they included payments to HMRC, and ISA payments, which were 
existing payees. I accept the first of the disputed payments was to a new payee, but the 
cryptocurrency exchange company was a legitimate company and Im not persuaded the 
fact he hadnt made a payment to that particular company before constitutes enough of a 
distinction to the other high value payments to mean NatWest should have intervened, 
especially as the £5,000 payment on 28 October 2022 related to investments. 
Finally, I accept that Mr R went on to make payments for £21,000 on 2 March 2022 and 
£27,000 on 5 March 2022 but by this time, there was an established pattern of spending to a 
payee hed paid many times before and so there was no reason for NatWest to have 
intervened at that point.Chargeback
Ive thought about whether NatWest could have done more to recover Mr Rs payments 
when he reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it 
will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be 
resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of 
the scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in 
such cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to 
determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. NatWest) acted fairly and reasonably when 
presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr R).
Mr Rs own testimony supports that he used cryptocurrency exchanges to facilitate the 
transfers. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received the 
disputed payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchange would have been able 
to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Mr Rs payments, 
they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address provided. So, 
any chargeback was destined fail, therefore Im satisfied that NatWests decision not to raise 
a chargeback request against the cryptocurrency exchange company was fair.
Overall, Im satisfied NatWest took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as 
well as the steps they took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Mr R 
has lost money and the effect this has had on him. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think NatWest is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman