DRN-4099006
The complaint
Mrs G and Mrs P (the representatives) complain on behalf of Mrs R that Lloyds Bank PLC 
(Lloyds) wont refund the money she lost when she fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. Instead, Ill summarise the key points, and focus on giving reasons for my decision.
Mrs G and Mrs P have power of attorney for their mother, Mrs R. In late 2021, they 
established she was the victim of a scam which had started around 2014. An individual 
(Mr S) moved into a rental property Mrs R owned and, over time, led her to believed he had 
feelings for her. He claimed to be a pilot whose money was tied up abroad. His story evolved 
over time  I understand he later claimed he was actually a spy, and said he required money 
for protection.
Mrs R began giving money to Mr S based on his false explanations. I understand this was 
largely done by withdrawing cash from her Lloyds accounts and handing it over to him. 
Some of this was funded by lending she took out. And I understand she also took out, or was 
at least paying for, hire car agreements for him. This occurred during a period when Mrs Rs 
health was in decline. In total, the payments that are alleged to have been lost to this scam 
significantly exceed £200,000. 
When the representatives found out what had happened, they raised their concerns with 
Lloyds. They felt it had failed to protect Mrs R, in light of her vulnerabilities, from the scam  
such as by invoking the Banking Protocol earlier. They also complained that Lloyds had 
charged Mrs R numerous fees over the years, which they felt should be refunded giver her 
situation. 
Lloyds offered £500 compensation for the time it took to review things. But said it wasnt 
clear what the cash withdrawals had been used for, so it wouldnt refund them. Although it 
would review things further on receipt of additional information from the police.
Unhappy with this response, the representatives referred the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator thought Lloyds should refund two payments  one that fell within the scope of 
the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code; and a cash 
withdrawal that was permitted after the representatives raised their concerns with Lloyds. 
But she didnt think Lloyds was at fault for failing to prevent most of the payments.
Lloyds has accepted the investigators outcome, but the representatives have appealed. In 
summary, they feel Lloyds failed to protect a vulnerable customer; unfairly charged Mrs R; 
and failed to adequately support the police investigation into Mr S.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
In explain my decision, Im conscious the representatives have made detailed submissions 
to us about this complaint. Id reassure them Ive considered everything they (and Lloyds) 
have submitted carefully. But I wont be responding in similar detail. If I dont mention a 
particular point or piece of evidence, thats not because I havent taken it into account. Its 
just that I dont believe it necessary to reference it to explain my decision, which is focussed 
on what I consider to be the main issues. This isnt intended as a discourtesy. Its a reflection 
of the informal nature of our service.  
Banks are expected to execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. Its 
agreed that Mrs R authorised these payments  albeit tricked by a cruel scam. In line with 
the Payment Service Regulations 2009 and 2017, the relevant regulations covering these 
payments, the starting position is that she is liable for them. 
However, Lloyds does also have a duty to help protect customers from the risk of fraud and 
scams. Such as by monitoring for payments that look unusual or meet a known pattern of 
fraud. It also has a duty of care to help identify, and support, vulnerable customers. Such as 
being proactive in identifying those at risk from fraud, and taking action to reduce that risk. 
If I find Lloyds failed in its duty to identify and respond to indications Mrs R was at risk from 
fraud, Ill consider what material impact this had. If I think appropriate intervention would 
have prevented or lessened her loss, it might be fair to expect Lloyds to refund (some of) 
this. But if I find her loss would likely have been the same, even if Lloyds had responded 
appropriately, then it wouldnt be fair to hold it liable. 
I dont think all the payments made in association with the scam ought to have appeared 
concerning to Lloyds. But I agree with the investigator that, at a point, it should have 
identified some of this activity as unusual. In response to this, it should have looked into the 
circumstances of the payments, to assess the fraud risk and determine whether it needed to 
take action to protect Mrs R. However, Im not persuaded that, in doing so, it was likely to 
have prevented most of her loss.
This was a long-running deception by Mr S which occurred over many years. Its clear Mrs R 
was deeply under the spell of the scam. The representatives have told us they had concerns 
prior to realising the scam outright in 2021. For example, they contacted the police in early 
2019  who spoke to Mrs R and told her Mr S wasnt who he claimed to be and didnt have a 
pilots licence. I understand Mrs R refused to believe them and was angry about the police 
being made involved. 
Even after the scam was exposed, Mrs R visited branch and was adamant she wasnt being 
scammed. My expectations on the bank at this point are different, given that it had been 
notified of the full details of the scam. But it demonstrates the difficultly in unravelling and 
persuading Mrs R of the scam. Which makes it harder for me to conclude its likely the bank 
would have established this if it had questioned her about the payments  or even invoked 
Banking Protocol  earlier, without input from the representatives.
Alongside this, I am mindful that Mrs R was diagnosed with an illness that will have made 
her vulnerable. Although I understand she wasnt formally diagnosed until July 2021, it 
seemingly affected her over a period of three years or so prior. And the representatives have 
made us, and Lloyds, aware of other factors which made her vulnerable. Ive considered 
how that affects Lloyds duties here. There doesnt appear to be much on record to show Lloyds was notified, or otherwise should 
have been aware, of circumstances that made Mrs R more vulnerable to this scam during 
most of the period in which it was happening. But I think the wider point here is that, 
regardless of whether we apply a higher bar on Lloyds due to Mrs Rs circumstances, its 
agreed that Lloyds didnt do what it should have done. The key issue is that its unclear 
whether that failure affected Mrs Rs actions  given how taken in she was by the scam. 
So while I understand the representatives concerns and frustrations about what Lloyds did  
or perhaps more crucially, didnt do  Im not persuaded its fair to expect it to reimburse 
Mrs R because of her circumstances. 
However, I agree that Lloyds should refund the following payments: 
£6,000 transferred to Mr S in March 2020
This payment falls under the scope of the CRM code. As a signatory, Lloyds is expected to 
refund victims of authorised push payment scams (APP) unless an exception applies.
It's agreed that Mrs R was the victim of a cruel and long-running scam. And the payment 
date and type mean its covered by the code. As Lloyds is aware, although it doesnt appear 
to have been notified at the time, Mrs R was suffering from a health condition that caused 
her confusion and anxiety, amongst other symptoms. Im persuaded her condition, coupled 
with her wider circumstances, means she meets the codes definition of a vulnerable 
customer. And so, in line with this, its fair that Lloyds should refund her for this payment.
The remaining disputed payments dont fall within the scope of the code. Many occurred 
before the code came into force. And it only covers domestic bank transfers made to another 
person. Which most of the payments werent; they were predominantly cash withdrawals. So 
that is why Ive instead considered the remaining payments in line with Lloyds other duties. 
£1,000 cash withdrawal in July 2021
This occurred after the representatives had visited Lloyds to notify it of the scam. I 
understood they asked for notes to be added on to Mrs Rs account  essentially directing 
staff to invoke Banking Protocol when she next came to branch to withdraw cash. 
Lloyds did this when Mrs R visited her branch in August 2021 and was successful in 
preventing her from making further withdrawals in this way. But when she visited in 
July 2021, and withdrew £1,000 cash, it allowed her to do so. In the circumstances, I agree 
Lloyds should have done more to protect Mrs R. And as it was successful when it intervened 
later on, based on the same information, I consider it likely that better intervention at this 
point would have succeeded.
I also agree that, in the circumstances, its likely the money was lost to the scam. Although 
we cant trace it due to being a cash payment, it clearly matched the pattern of fraud which 
Lloyds had been warned about. So I consider it fair for Lloyds to refund this amount. 
The representatives have also raised concern about the fees and charges added to Mrs Rs 
account over the years. But these seem to have been applied in line with the account terms, 
as a result of the payments made  which Ive not found grounds to persuade me Lloyds is 
liable for. And it also seems it offered some refunds on several occasions at Mrs Rs request. 
So, in relation to this complaint, Im not directing Lloyds to refund any further fees. I understanding the representatives are also dissatisfied with how Lloyds have dealt with 
things since they notified it of the scam. However, it does appear that Lloyds has, for 
example, provided statements to the police as requested. Our service also cant make (or 
endorse) awards to third parties; we can only look at the impact on Mrs R directly. It appears 
that the representatives have largely dealt with this matter on Mrs Rs behalf. And Lloyds has 
issued a cheque for £500 as compensation for the delays.
Given that Ive ultimately not found Lloyds to be liable for most payments, Im not persuaded 
it should offer further compensation for how it handled the fraud claim. Although I do think it 
should have refunded some of these payments sooner, Ive awarded interest to reflect the 
loss of use of those funds, thereby addressing the impact of the delay. 
Putting things right
Lloyds Bank PLC should refund Mrs R £7,000, comprising of the £6,000 she transferred to 
Mr S in March 2020, and the £1,000 she withdrew in cash in July 2021. It must pay 8% 
simple interest per year on this amount from the dates of payment to the date of settlement. 
If Lloyds Bank PLC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs R how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs R a 
tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to put things right 
as Ive set out above. It must pay this award within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mrs R accepts my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman