DRN-1133046
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) gave him loans 
irresponsibly.
What happened
 This complaint is about 9 loans Sunny provided to Mr D between September 2015 and 
August 2016. The amounts borrowed ranged between £50 and £250  with most of Mr Ds 
borrowing falling in-between. 
Heres a table showing details of these loans: 
 
 
Loan 
Date Taken 
Date Repaid 
Instalments 
AmountHighest
Repayment
1 30/09/2015 24/12/2015 6 £250.00 £80.96
2 26/11/2015 24/12/2015 6 £100.00 £114.11
3 24/12/2015 24/03/2016 6 £250.00 £83.36
4 03/06/2016 24/06/2016 6 £100.00 £31.65
5 07/06/2016 26/07/2016 6 £100.00 £62.45
6 17/06/2016 26/08/2016 6 £50.00 £79.14
7 29/06/2016 26/08/2016 6 £100.00 £80.18
8 27/07/2016 29/08/2016 6 £150.00 £99.24
9 26/08/2016 29/08/2016 6 £100.00 £83.23
 
Mr D said that the lending wasnt affordable and Sunny shouldve realised this. Mr D told us 
that hed had to take out loans to repay other loans and he became trapped in a debt spiral.Our adjudicator investigated and came to the overall view that whilst loans 1-5 hadnt been 
unfair, the pattern of lending itself showed that from loan 6 onwards the borrowing was 
unsustainable  so Sunny shouldnt have given Mr D loan 6 or any of the loans that followed. 
Our adjudicator set out the steps he felt Sunny should take to put things right for Mr D.
Sunny said that as a gesture of goodwill it would accept the decision of the adjudicator. But 
its refund amount offered didnt include 8% interest or (as far as I can see) any mention of 
making the amendments to Mr Ds credit file that our adjudicator had recommended.
Sunny sent details showing how it worked out the refund it was willing to pay to settle Mr Ds 
complaint. We passed this information on to Mr D but it hasnt led to the complaint being 
settled. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
Looking at the repayments that Mr D needed to make on loans 1-5, the amounts wouldve 
seemed relatively affordable compared with the disposable income hed declared. Given 
these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ds circumstances at the time, and 
his borrowing history with Sunny, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to 
ask Mr D for the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable before agreeing the first five loans. So I agree with our adjudicator about 
these loans  and as it seems Mr D hasnt objected to what our adjudicator has said, then 
I don't think I need say more about loans 1-5. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr D, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ds case, I think by loan 6 Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was likely to be unsustainable and it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. I say this because at this point Sunny ought to have 
realised:
Mr D was not managing to repay his loans sustainably. Since September 2015 he 
had taken out 6 loans in around 9 months or so 
 
although he repaid his loans earlier than the agreed term, successfully repaying his 
loans doesnt mean Mr D managed to do so in a sustainable way. And borrowing and 
repaying this number of loans early suggests to me that Mr Ds finances were not in a 
stable position.
 
the loan amounts went up and down  but overall Mr D wasnt making any real 
inroads into the amount he owed Sunny. Although loan 6 was for a relatively small 
amount he was still also paying loans 4 and 5 
 
so it wasnt reasonable of Sunny to think his situation had improved and Mr D was 
now asking to borrow because of a new need for a short term loan - rather this 
pattern of borrowing suggested he had ongoing money problems 
 
Sunny ought to have realised it was more likely that Mr D was borrowing further to 
cover the hole repaying previous loans was leaving in his finances and that Mr Ds 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
 Ive carefully considered everything Sunny has said, including its response to our 
adjudicators view. I dont think the gap in lending between loans 3 and 4 was long enough 
for me to say it makes any overall difference to the outcome of this complaint. For the 
reasons Ive explained, I think Sunny shouldve seen that Mr Ds indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably by the time he took out loan 6  and it shouldve realised then that 
it was unfair to continue to lending to him. 
I think that Mr D lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ds indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time. 
 
the number of loans which Mr D borrowed was likely to have negative implications on 
Mr Ds ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans. By that point Mr D had already borrowed six loans in a row. And any 
further borrowing was likely to be detrimental to his credit rating.
 
So Im upholding the complaint about loans 6 through to 9 and Sunny should put things right. 
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr D towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 6-9, not including anything it has already refunded.
 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr D which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr D originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. Pay Mr D the total of "A" plus "B".
 
D. The overall pattern of Mr Ds borrowing from the point of loan 6 means any 
information recorded about this loan and the loans that followed is adverse. So all 
entries about loans 6  9 should be removed from Mr Ds credit file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint about loans 6 - 9. Elevate 
Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) should pay Mr D as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman