DRN-1752241
complaint
Ms C complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms C took out a credit card with Capital One in 2005. When she rang up to activate her card 
she was sold a PPI policy which would have helped cover the payments on the card for up to 
a year at a time if she couldnt work due to an accident, sickness or redundancy. It also 
provided life cover for the outstanding balance.
Ms C says she didnt knowingly take the PPI and that she didnt need or want it. 
The adjudicator didnt think Ms Cs complaint should be upheld. Ms C disagrees, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Ms Cs 
complaint. Ill explain why.
I think Capital One made it clear that Ms C didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this. The PPI was sold when 
Ms C called Capital One to activate her new credit card. Capital One hasnt been able to 
provide a call recording, which isnt surprising given the length of time which has passed. But 
it's provided a copy of the call script it says wouldve been followed by the representative. 
The script makes it clear that the PPI is optional, and actively seeks the customers 
permission to add it. 
Ms C says theres no evidence that the script was followed, and I appreciate her point here. 
But equally, I dont have evidence that Capital One didnt follow their usual processes. The 
PPI appeared on Ms Cs credit card statements each month, so if she hadnt agreed to take 
it I think shed have queried this at the time.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Ms C so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Ms C got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Ms C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover, and I think shed have at least understood that the PPI was intended to help meet her 
repayments if she couldnt work.Based on what Ive seen of Ms Cs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Ms C has said - including what she has said about not being 
aware she had the PPI and she didnt need it. But this doesnt change my decision. I dont 
think Ms C lost out as a result of anything Capital One did wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Ms Cs complaint, so it follows that Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have 
to pay any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman