DRN-4354302
The complaint
Mr W complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) wont refund him following a scam.
What happened
Mr W is represented in this case but for ease Ill refer to Mr W throughout this decision. 
Mr W says that he saw an advert on a social networking site in relation to an online trading 
platform created by the chief executive of a prominent online retailer. He was intrigued and 
clicked on a link to the companys website, which looked legitimate. After leaving his contact 
details Mr W received a call from someone who said he was a financial advisor from a 
company Ill refer to in this decision as M. The advisor discussed goals with Mr W.
The advisor helped Mr W to open an account with Revolut and with a cryptocurrency 
exchange using a screen sharing app. He advised Mr W that hed need to send funds from 
his bank account to Revolut and then to the cryptocurrency exchange. 
I have set out in the table below the payments Mr W made from his Revolut account.
Date Amount
10/06/22 £500
13/06/22 £1,755
15/06/22 £2,500
16/06/22 £3,250.21
Total £8,005.21
The final payment was made to release Mr Ws funds. After paying it, Mr W says that his 
accounts were closed or frozen. He reported the scam to Revolut on 25 June 2022 via its in-
app support. 
Revolut considered Mr Ws claim but didnt agree to reimburse any of his loss. It said:
- It provided scam education to customers in blogs and articles.
- Mr W breached the terms and conditions of his account when he shared banking 
details with the scammer (to allow remote access).
- It had reasonable measures in place to warn Mr W before he authorised the 
transactions and provided a warning when the new beneficiary was set up. The 
warning asked if Mr W trusted the beneficiary and advised of the possibility of losing 
funds. 
- Revolut contacted the beneficiary but was advised that no funds remained. It also 
helped Mr W to secure his account and remove the screen sharing app the scammer 
told him to install. 
Mr W was unhappy with Revoluts response and brought a complaint to this service. He said 
Revolut should refund him in full and also pay the fees of his representative.
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. He said 
this because he didnt think the payments were so unusual and out of character that Revolut 
should have flagged them and taken further action, particularly as the account was new with 
no spending history. 
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators findings, so the complaint has been passed to me 
to consider. In summary, he said:
- Scam payments from a newly opened account should have triggered as a known 
pattern of fraud and Revolut should be aware that scammers regularly ask victims to 
open new accounts to facilitate fraud. Mr W referred to a section of a published 
decision which says that newly opened accounts present a higher risk of misuse 
compared with established accounts. 
- Revolut ought to have been aware of the high risks associated with cryptocurrency 
trading and of the prevalence of scams related to it and put mechanisms in place to 
detect and prevent them.
- Mr W sent £8,005.21 in a short space of time and sometimes made multiple 
payments in a day to a payee linked to cryptocurrency. 
- Creating a new payee is a high-risk activity but Revolut failed to flag it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that an account provider is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the customers account. And a customer will then be responsible for 
those transactions that they have authorised. 
Its not in dispute here that Mr W authorised the payments. He accepts he made them 
himself, with the help of the scammer. So, while I recognise that he didnt intend the money 
to go to a scammer, the starting position in law is that Revolut was obliged to follow his 
instructions and process the payments. Mr W isnt automatically entitled to a refund. 
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice at the time, also sets out an 
expectation for account providers to consider the interests of their customers and treat them 
fairly. I think this included monitoring accounts to look out for unusual activity and trying to 
protect customers from fraud and financial harm. So, Ive also thought about whether 
Revolut did enough to try to keep Mr Ws account safe.
Mr Ws account with Revolut was opened on 9 June 2022 and the first scam payment was 
made the following day, with further payments taking place over the course of nearly a week. 
So there was no account history to compare the transaction with. One of the reasons given 
for opening the account was cryptocurrency so the transfers Mr W made were in line with his 
chosen account opening reason.  
Although I appreciate the overall loss has had a significant impact on Mr W, the value of 
each transaction was relatively low, and they were not made in quick succession. And 
setting up a new payee on a recently opened account isnt unusual, and neither is making 
payments to that new payee. I accept there is a greater risk in respect of transactions from a 
newly opened account compared with an established one, but I dont consider it reasonable 
to expect an electronic money provider to question all payments from a recently opened 
account, unless there are other factors that ought reasonably to have concerned Revolut. To 
do so would cause huge disruption to the many legitimate payments that are made from new 
accounts each day.I also appreciate that Mr W made transfers to a cryptocurrency exchange, but I dont think 
there was enough going on that Revolut needed to do more than it did in providing a new 
payee warning on 10 June 2022 which said,
Do you know and trust this payee?
If youre unsure, dont pay them, as we may not be able to help you get your money back. 
Remember, fraudsters can impersonate others, and we will never ask you to make a 
payment.
Mr W was then required to confirm that he knew and trusted the payee. 
Whilst cryptocurrency can be associated with scams many transactions are genuine. 
Given that the payments went to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange there wasnt anything 
Revolut could do to recover them. I can see that Revolut tried but without success.
Mr W has asked for his representatives fees to be paid. Even if I had upheld his case, I 
wouldnt make an award in respect of these fees. This service is free and informal so that 
complaints can be brought to us directly. 
Overall, whilst Im really sorry to hear about Mr Ws loss as a result of a cruel scam I cant 
reasonably ask Revolut to refund him. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman