DRN-3138485
The complaint 
Mr and Mrs S complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim they made under
their travel insurance policy after it had led them to believe it would be covered.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr and Mrs S booked a package holiday abroad. They were due to travel
with their two children and Mr Ss parents in-law from 10 August 2020 until 24 August 2020.
Mr and Mrs S paid £1,750 which was their share of the deposit. Their share of the remaining
balance, £2,730, was due to be paid to the travel agent by 1 July 2020.
On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a global
pandemic and a few days later, on 16 March 2020, Mr and Mrs S took out a single trip travel
insurance policy for this holiday to cover themselves and their two children. This policy was
underwritten by Great Lakes. In addition to standard policy cover, Mr and Mrs S opted to
purchase an optional excess waiver and Natural Catastrophe/Terrorism cover.
Mr S contacted Great Lakes a number of times during June and July 2020 to get advice
about their holiday booking in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. He explained he had concerns
about safety in light of coronavirus, and also said that he and his wife would not be able to
complete a two-week self-isolation period upon their return as was being imposed at the time
by the UK government. He asked whether or not he should pay the outstanding balance due
to the travel agent on 1 July 2020. And if he would be able to make an insurance claim for
the deposit the had already paid. 
On 4 July 2020 the UK opened a travel corridor with the country Mr S had booked to travel
to. This meant that Mr and Mrs S would have been able to travel in August 2020 as planned,
and without restrictions such as the need to quarantine.
Mr S was given a lot of conflicting information by Great Lakes. But having been told that they
would be able to make a claim under their travel insurance policy for the holiday deposit Mr
and Mrs S opted not to pay the remaining balance and cancelled their trip.
They submitted a claim to Great Lakes, but this was declined. Mr and Mrs S complained that
theyd acted on advice given to them by one of Great Lakes agents. Great Lakes reviewed
their case but maintained that the claim had been declined correctly. It explained that Mr and
Mrs S were not forced to cancel their holiday as per the terms and conditions of the
cancellation cover provided by the policy. And it said that the policy does not cover
disinclination to travel.
Great Lakes did however say that although some of its agents had told Mr S it was too early
to cancel his trip, it recognised hed been given inconsistent advice. It apologised for this and
said it would arrange for a payment of £100 to be made to him by way of compensation.
Mr and Mrs S werent satisfied with this response and brought their complaint to our service.
They feel Great Lakes should honour the advice they were given when they were told that
they would be able to claim for their deposit if they cancelled the holiday.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She said disinclination to travel was not
covered by the policy, and Mr S should have been advised of this. As such she felt Great
Lakes should increase its offer of compensation to £200. She also said it was clear from the
calls Mr S had with Great Lakes that he did not wish to travel given the Covid-19 pandemic,
and the quarantine that was in place at the time the remaining balance of the holiday was
due. She thought it likely he would have decided to cancel his holiday at this time even if he
had been correctly advised by Great Lakes.
Great Lakes accepted these findings, but Mr and Mrs S didnt. They said theyd accept an
offer of £300-£400 compensation. But Great Lakes felt the £200 recommended by the
investigator was fair to resolve this complaint. So the case has been passed to me to review.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision to both parties on 24 September 2021. In it I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case.
Ive also considered the terms of Mr and Mrs Ss insurance policy. This includes a
Cancellation or Curtailment section which says:
We will reimburse up to the amount shown in the Schedule of Benefits (for the cover level
as shown on Your Policy Certificate) in total under this policy for financial loss You suffer,
being non-refundable deposits and amounts You have paid for travel and accommodation
You do not use because of Your inability to commence travel or complete the trip.
[]
Cancellation cover applies if You have booked a Trip to take place within the Period of
Insurance, but You are forced to cancel Your travel plans because of one of the following
changes in circumstances, which is beyond Your control, and of which You were unaware at
the time You booked the Trip.
[...]
 Unforeseen illness, injury or death of You, a Close Relative or any person with whom You
have arranged to travel or stay during the Trip.
 You abandoning Your Trip following the cancellation of or a delay of more than 12 hours in
the departure of Your outward international flight, sea-crossing, coach or train journey,
forming part of the booked Trips itinerary, as a result of Strike or Industrial Action (of which
You were unaware at the time You either booked the Trip or purchased this policy,
whichever is the latest), adverse weather conditions, or the mechanical breakdown of, or
accident of, the aircraft, sea vessel, coach or train.
 You or any person with whom You plan to travel being called up for Jury Service or being
subpoenaed as a witness in a court of law (other than in a professional or advisory capacity).
 If You are made redundant and You qualify for redundancy payment under current
legislation. Your Home being made uninhabitable or place of business being made unusable (including
if Your presence is required by the Police in connection with such events), up to 7 days
before the commencement of Your Trip.
 Your compulsory quarantine.
 You or Your travelling companion having agreed leave subsequently cancelled by the
emergency services or armed forces, for operational reasons. This cover does not apply to
cancellation of leave due to war, invasion, acts of terrorism, hostilities (whether war be
declared or not), civil unrest, revolution, rebellion, act of foreign enemy or any similar event.
[]
What is not covered:
a) any disinclination to travel or continue travelling, unless Your change of travel plans is
caused by one of the circumstances listed under What is Covered;
Mr and Mrs S had also purchased an optional Natural Catastrophe/Terrorism cover (Section
P). The policy defines Natural Catastrophe as:
Natural Catastrophe - Pandemic as declared by the World Health Organisation, volcanic
activity, volcanic ash, earthquake, tsunami, hurricane, cyclone, flooding of more than 50
square km.
And this additional cover option extends the Cancellation or Curtailment cover set out above
as follows:
Section P1  Abandonment Before You Start Your Trip
Please refer to Section A Cancellation or Curtailment as this section forms the basis of
cover. If You have purchased this upgrade, What is covered under Section A is extended
to include the following:
If a Natural Catastrophe or Terrorism Event delays Your departure from the UK for at least
24 hours from the start of your trip, You can claim up to the amount in the Schedule of
Benefits for pre-paid transportation and accommodation costs, paid or contracted to be paid
(and are not recoverable from any other source).
If a Natural Catastrophe or Terrorism Event occurs within 20km of your Arrival Point or Your
pre-booked accommodation abroad and the start of your trip is within 7 days from the Event
Start Date, You may be able to claim up to the amount in the Schedule of Benefits for
for pre-paid transportation and accommodation costs, paid or contracted to be paid (and are
not recoverable from any other source)
The policy also states:
Sections P and Q  Enhanced Trip Disruption
This cover is secondary to claiming from any other source. You must check with your airline,
travel agent, accommodation provider or tour operator if they can refund Your costs or
rearrange Your trip before contacting us to make a claim.
If You have already travelled You must still contact Your airline, travel agent or tour operator
to discuss covering any additional costs You may incur if You cannot travel home and to
arrange bringing you back to the UK.
There is no cover for trips taken within the UK.
Your claim will not be covered if, at the time of buying the policy or booking a trip (whichever
is the later) a reason to make a claim has been published in the media. For example, a
natural catastrophe affecting Your departure has occurred and is publicised in the media and
You buy this policy following the media announcement
I have listened to the calls Mr S had with Great Lakes when he sought its advice about his
holiday booking on June 8, 11, 12, 15 and July 1.Like our investigator, these calls give me the impression Mr and Mrs S no longer wished to
travel. During these calls Mr S explains that that hes reluctant to pay the remaining balance
due to the travel agent. He repeatedly gives two reasons as to why hes looking to cancel his
holiday, referring to the fact he doesnt feel it is safe to travel, and explaining that he and his
wife would not be able to complete a two-week quarantine upon their return. He also
explains that hes not able to get a refund for the holiday from his travel provider as its told
him that flights will go ahead and hotels at his destination are open.
I can understand why Mr S wanted to know what his travel insurance policy covered him for
in this situation, and to establish whether or not he could make a claim, and if there was
anything he could do to increase its chances of success. But Im not persuaded that Mr and
Mrs S would have decided against cancelling their holiday and chosen instead to pay the
remaining balance due, even if theyd been advised differently by Great Lakes agents.
I appreciate that at the point Mr and Mrs S cancelled their trip there was Foreign,
Commonwealth & Development Office (FCO) advice in place against travel. But there was
quite some time before their holiday was due to take place. And during this time the FCO
guidance subsequently changed with the establishment of a travel corridor to their
destination country on 4 July 2020.
This change in FCO guidance meant that Mr and Mrs S would have been able to travel as
planned in August 2020. Thats supported by the fact that the travel agent was saying to Mr
and Mrs S that their holiday could go ahead as planned and Mr Ss testimony that the
holiday went ahead. There would have been no limitation on cover under the policy, as Mr
and Mrs S would have been free to travel, and so they wouldnt have been impacted by the
general exclusion not to travel against FCO advice. At the point Mr and Mrs S cancelled it
simply wasnt clear whether their trip was likely to go ahead, and what the FCO advice would
be at the point of departure.
I note the change in FCO guidance also meant there was no longer any requirement to
quarantine upon return to the U.K. That guidance remained in place up until the time
Mr and Mrs S holiday was due to take place. But Im also not convinced Mr and Mrs S would
have wanted to travel, regardless of the guidance from the FCO. I say this because in the
phone call he had with Great Lakes on 12 June 2020 Mr S asked what the situation would
be regarding a claim if the two-week quarantine requirement was removed  and again
referenced that he didnt feel it was safe to travel. And on the call of 15 June 2020 he also
asked if he is covered for cancellation if it is his decision not to travel because he doesnt
feel it is safe. Mr S has also since told us that the holiday would have gone ahead but, in the
circumstances, it wouldnt have been suitable for his children and their grandparents.
Ive also taken into account the additional cover option that Mr and Mrs S purchased for
natural catastrophe cover. But it doesnt change my thoughts about the outcome of this
complaint. Mr and Mrs S purchased their policy on 16 March 2020, five days after the
pandemic had been declared. The policy excludes cover for natural catastrophes which were
announced prior to the purchase of the policy. In this case the WHO had declared Covid-19
to be a pandemic five days before Mr and Mrs S purchased the policy. So, I cant fairly
conclude that there is cover under this section of the policy.
Considering all of the above, I agree with our investigator that Mr and Mrs S policy does not
provide cover in this situation. Disinclination to travel is clearly excluded under the policy
unless it is for one of the circumstances listed under the what is covered section of the
Cancellation or Curtailment cover. Mr and Mrs S circumstances are not covered by this
section. They are also not covered by the additions made to this section under the optional
Natural Catastrophe cover they had purchased. Its unfortunate that this was not explained
to Mr S on any of the calls he made to Great Lakes.It's not in dispute that Mr S was given some confusing and conflicting advice on these calls.
Our investigator has already detailed the content of these conversations in their view to both
parties on this matter. So I wont repeat this here other than to say that although at times Mr
S was told there was no guarantee a claim would be successful and it was too early to
consider a claim as it wasnt clear what the travel situation would be like in August 2020, on
other calls I agree he was led to believe he would be able to make a successful claim for his
deposit.
Great Lakes has agreed to increase the compensation its offered Mr and Mrs S for this
mistake from £100 to £200. But Mr and Mrs S dont feel this is fair and have said they feel an
amount of £300 - £400 would be acceptable and go some way to contribute towards the
holiday deposit they have lost here.
Ive thought about this matter carefully. Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S but Im satisfied
that the £200 compensation Great Lakes has already agreed to pay is in line with the nature
of award Id make in a case like this, and with other awards made by our service in similar
circumstances. I can appreciate Mr and Mrs S disappointment upon finding out their claim
had been declined. And there is no doubt that Great Lakes gave them incorrect advice about
their policy cover. But I also note that Mr S made numerous calls to Great Lakes to discuss
this issue looking for it to commit to covering a potential claim, and was on other occasions
told that the success of any claim could not be guaranteed.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further comments or 
information theyd like me to take into consideration before I made my final decision. 
Great Lakes responded to say that it accepted my provisional decision. Mr S advised our 
investigator that he would get in touch with us before the deadline I gave in my provisional 
decision if he had any further comments to make, but did not submit anything further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions I set out in my provisional decision. I still 
think that Great Lakes should pay Mr and Mrs S £200 compensation to resolve this 
complaint, for the reasons I explained in my provisional findings.  
Mr Ss comments to our investigator implied that he still feels that £200 compensation is too 
low to resolve this complaint. To be clear, this award isnt intended to represent a proportion 
of the holiday deposit that Mr and Mrs S lost. Whilst I am sorry to hear that they have been 
left out of pocket, as I said in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs S 
would have chosen to go ahead with their holiday even if Great Lakes had advised them 
differently. So I dont think Great Lakes is ultimately responsible for the loss of their deposit. 
Rather this award of compensation is intended to reflect the impact of the poor service 
provided by Great Lakes when it gave Mr and Mrs S inconsistent, and on occasions 
incorrect, advice about their policy.     
Putting things right
Great Lakes Insurance SE must pay Mr and Mrs S £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its actions here. My final decision
I uphold this complaint to the extent that I direct Great Lakes to put things right as Ive set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Jenette Lynch
Ombudsman