DRN-3997166
The complaint
Mrs M says Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) was responsible for a delay in 
switching her personal pension to a Qualifying Recognised Overseas Pension Scheme 
(QROPS) and that this caused the transfer value to fall by around £2,000.
What happened
Summary timeline of events
My starting point is a summary timeline of events for the transaction Mrs M complains about. 
This has been constructed using information provided by her and Aviva. 
March 2022  Mrs M makes contact with Aviva to enquire about switching her personal 
pension to a QROPS.
19 May 2022  Request received by Aviva from QROPS provider (Z) for information about 
Mrs Ms pension as well as transfer application forms.
30 May 2022  Mrs M sends Aviva completed forms in support of her request to switch her 
personal pension, including transfer and HM Revenue & Customs forms.
31 May 2022  Aviva received switch request paperwork.
9 June 2022  Aviva issue additional due diligence questionnaire to Mrs M because the 
switch was to an overseas provider. She completed the form the same day and it was 
received as an email by Aviva on 10 June 2022.
24 June 2022  Although Aviva received Mrs Ms additional due diligence form on 10 June 
2022, it wasnt scanned onto its system until this point. 
1 July 2022  Following internal discussions at Aviva it was agreed that Mrs M would need to 
seek an appointment with MoneyHelper to ensure she was aware of the risks and 
implications of the switch of her pension.
4 July 2022  Aviva spoke to Mrs M to let her know about the requirement for her to speak to 
MoneyHelper. This was 16 working days after its receipt of her completed due diligence 
questionnaire.
15 July 2022  Mrs M confirmed to Aviva details of her MoneyHelper referral, but this wasnt 
recorded on her case file. 
17 August 2022  it wasnt until this point Aviva informed Mrs M that as well as a reference 
number for her MoneyHelper appointment, she needed to provide other supporting 
information.
31 August 2022  Mrs M contacted Aviva asking why the switch request had still not been 
actioned. Further internal process failings at Aviva in relation to communications about her 
MoneyHelper appointment were responsible.
2 September 2022  Switch process was put back on the correct track.
7 September  the transfer of Mrs Ms pension to Z was processed. The transfer value 
provided was about £44,450.
The basis of Mrs Ms complaint to Aviva
Mrs M had concerns about what had happened and she raised a complaint with Aviva. She 
summarised her situation in the following terms:
I am in the process of moving to a new pensions provider and I started this process with 
Aviva since Apr 2022. However they asked me to provide some due diligence documents 
which took some time and after all the confirmations sent to them, I had my discussion with 
Money helper as per the process on 13th Jul 2022. After that there have been several 
chasers sent to them and each time they kept saying that they are awaiting the original email 
with the reference received from money helper. I told them several times and after several 
phone calls they still didnt action my case. In the meantime the value of my fund they 
claimed has come down by nearly 2500 pounds. The chain of this email has the evidence 
that the email from money helper was sent to them on the 15th of Jul itself. This was not 
actioned by them until 31st August. The whole process has taken them nearly 6 months 
and for no reason. Given the current economic crisis and the value of my fund in question, 
this is sheer negligence on the part of Aviva and I would ask for them to make good this loss 
and fluctuation in the value of my fund with the relevant amount.
Avivas response to Mrs M
Aviva apologised for its handling of Mrs Ms pension switch. It noted the additional due 
diligence it undertook because shed wanted to move to a QROPS. But it accepted that it 
had failed to act on information shed provided on more than one occasion and this had led 
to significant delays in executing the transaction for her. It acknowledged its failings had 
caused her unnecessary inconvenience and upset.
To put things right, Aviva said it had price-matched the transfer value of her pension to a 
date it said the transaction wouldve proceeded on had it got things right and adhered to its 
usual service levels. It also offered her £200 for the trouble and upset it had caused.
The Investigators findings and conclusions
Mrs M didnt accept Avivas response and brought her complaint to this Service. An 
Investigator considered her case but didnt uphold it. He thought Aviva had done enough to 
put right the things it had got wrong. Mrs M disagreed. 
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators findings and conclusions, Mrs Ms 
complaint has been passed to me to review afresh and to provide a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Aviva upheld Mrs Ms complaint. I agree it shouldve, and with its broad approach, although I 
do require it to carry out a fuller loss assessment which is in keeping with this Services 
established approach. Ill now explain my findings and conclusions.
Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those performed by Aviva 
for Mrs M. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are 
fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These 
include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms. As such, I need to 
have regard to them in deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
Its useful to understand what service levels firms should be aiming for when switches take 
place between providers. In this regard the sector best practice issued by the Transfers and 
Re-registration Industry Group (TRIG); whose membership included several trade bodies is 
instructive. In 2018 it published an Industry-wide framework for improving transfers and re-
registrations. It noted:
When moving investments, assets and entitlements between institutions, people have a 
legitimate right to expect the industry to execute their instructions in a timely and efficient 
manner. Furthermore, customers service expectations are increasing due to the relative 
simplicity of switching in other markets. Slow transfers can cause detriment to customers; 
and the actions of one party can reduce the efficiency of all parties in the chain.
I also think its very important that firms have robust due diligence in place when dealing with 
requests to switch pension proceeds, and that when this involves moving funds to an 
overseas provider this includes specific checks and procedures. Pension benefits 
accumulated over many years are to provide an income in retirement and its right that Aviva 
sought to meet its duty of care to Mrs M.
However, and as Aviva has accepted, it was responsible for failings in operating its 
processes which caused Mrs M unnecessary trouble and upset and which gave rise to 
significant delays in the transaction.
As the Investigator noted, Aviva reviewed what had happened to Mrs M and created a new 
timeline of events based on things progressing in the way they shouldve according to its 
usual service levels. 
In summary, this theoretical timeline was:
31 May 2022  Overseas transfer application received.
9 June 2022  Due diligence questionnaire sent to Mrs M.
10 June 2022  Questionnaire received from Mrs M.17 June 2022  Mrs M informed referral to MoneyHelper was required.
30 June 2022  Confirmation from Mrs M that MoneyHelper referral had been completed. 
This was taken as the assumed switch date, so over two months earlier than actually 
happened. The policy value on this date was £44,374.46.
As the actual transfer value of Mrs Ms pension on 7 September 2022 was £44,453.46, Aviva 
agreed that in the circumstances she should benefit from the best price. It also offered her 
£200 for the distress and inconvenience it had caused. 
Mrs M didnt agree with Avivas approach to resolve her complaint, for example she thought 
it wasnt appropriate to use a hypothetical timeline. She was concerned that her pension 
fund value had been eroded due to the delays caused by Aviva, she said her fund had been 
worth around £46,000 in May 2022. She thought it shouldve placed her fund in cash when it 
knew she wanted to switch provider. And she considered the offer of £200 inadequate given 
what had happened.
I understand the points raised by Mrs M, and in the circumstances I appreciate why she has 
limited confidence in what Aviva has said about how things should be put right for her. But I 
can assure her Ive looked closely at whats happened and I think Avivas assumptions are 
broadly fair. Im also not persuaded by her arguments.
When things go wrong its the role of this Service to try to return customers to the position 
theyd have been in now had it not been for the failings of the firm involved. The approach 
taken by Aviva to construct a timeline based on what wouldve happened if it had lived up to 
its usual service levels is something we would require a business to do. 
Its important to note that we cant know for certain what wouldve happened. Redress is 
rarely a scientific matter. But Ive reviewed the assumptions Aviva has made about what 
shouldve happened and I think these are broadly reasonable.
However, I do think Aviva needs to do more in terms of checking that Mrs M hasnt been 
disadvantaged by what happened. Although I can see its done a simple comparison 
between the transfer value she received and what she wouldve received if there hadnt been 
the delays it caused, it needs to go a little further.
Aviva needs to know where the transferred funds were invested by Mrs Ms new provider. It 
can then carry out a comparison between current values of the funds transferred - and what 
the value transferred would have been at the calculation date if the funds had been 
transferred on the date they should have been. The point here being that there are multiple 
moving prices it needs to account for. If Aviva identifies that Mrs H has suffered a loss, it 
should pay her such as compensation.
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited accepts this requirement and has undertaken to conduct a 
full loss assessment calculation consistent with the usual approach of this Service.
Regarding Mrs Ms wider concerns about the erosion of the value of her pension pot during 
the period her switch was being arranged. The Investigator said:
Fund valuations change daily, and the earlier fund values you were quoted in March and 
April 2022 werent guaranteed until the funds were sold down to cash. At that point, a price 
would be generated for the transfer. It just so happened that the time around when these 
transfers would have taken place, the value of your fund had fallen to below the value you 
had been quoted previously. Market factors affect fund value, and events around the world 
have been a contributing factor to the rise and fall in pension values over the last 24 months. 
It should also be remembered that nothing would begin until the transfer documents were received by Aviva, as mentioned above these were received at the end of May 2022, so that 
is the correct start date for the transfer process.
I think the Investigator makes some important points here. I dont know how Mrs Ms pension 
pot was invested with her new provider. But if I assume it was placed in funds with a similar 
spread of assets and risks, then these wouldve been subject to many of the same 
influences. So, for arguments sake, even if shed switched her funds in March or April 2022 
 which of course could never have happened given how much necessary process there 
was to follow between enquiry and execution  even if shed received a higher transfer 
value, this mayve suffered in similar fashion to her Aviva pension.
Mrs M has suggested that Aviva shouldve stopped trading with her funds, I think she means 
that it shouldve switched her money into cash in advance of moving her pension. She said 
she asked for this to happen. Responding to this point Aviva told this Service:
The type of plan Mrs M was invested in does not allow for cash to be held. It is a Unit only 
based investment. Therefore, even if [she] did request we disinvest her investments prior to 
a transfer being completed, we would have explained this was not an option.
Mrs M thinks that the £200 Aviva awarded to her for the trouble and upset it caused was 
insufficient.
When Im considering a complaint like Mrs Ms I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition 
of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of a firms actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. Its 
clear to me that this was the case here.
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited accepted it got things wrong for Mrs M and that its failings 
had caused her trouble and upset, requiring her to chase progress on several occasions and 
leading to worry about the delays and the impact on her pension. It offered her £200 for this. 
I think this is fair and it should honour that payment if it hasnt done so already.
My final decision
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited accepts it got things wrong in the service it provided Mrs 
M. It will now carry out a full loss assessment calculation. And its offered her £200 for the 
distress and inconvenience it has caused. So, my decision is that it should proceed on this 
basis. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman