DRN-3029228
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs R says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Rs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought Nationwides offer to 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mrs R paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs Rs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Rs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Nationwide should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that Nationwides offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think Nationwide made it clear that Mrs R didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out. I say this because Nationwide has provided a copy of Mrs Rs credit card 
application from the time (completed in-branch rather than on the phone as Mrs R 
remembers.) Looking at this I can see there is a separate section titled: Payment 
Protection Insurance which asked Mrs R to tick one of two boxes to indicate whether 
she wanted PPI or not. And there is a tick in the Yes box - Mrs R also signed the 
application overall. If Mrs R didnt want PPI she couldve ticked the No box.
Nationwide says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs R. And Ive not seen anything to 
show or suggest that it did. So Nationwide didnt have to check that the PPI was right or 
suitable for Mrs R. But it did have to give her enough clear and timely information so she 
could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs R  for example she 
was eligible for the cover and there wasnt anything about her employment or 
occupation, which would have made it difficult for her to claim.
Although Mrs R says she had some medical conditions sometime before and around the 
time she took the policy out, I dont think better information about the existing medical 
exclusion wouldve caused her to change her mind about taking out the policy. I say this 
because one of the things Mrs R told us about is a medical procedure  it is not in and of 
itself, a medical condition. Because Mrs R hasnt expanded on what gave rise to the 
procedure or what the problem was  it couldve been related to a one-off type injury for 
example - I dont think I can safely conclude this was an existing medical condition.
And as for the other three conditions referred to, Mrs R has said they happened circa 
2002. So on the one hand they could have been pre-existing at the time of the sale. But 
on the other hand, and just as likely, they couldve happened afterwards. We asked Mrs 
R, via her representative, for more information about her medical conditions (I can see 
Nationwide did the same when it investigated Mrs Rs complaint.) But no response was 
received to either request.
So taking everything into account, I dont think I can safely say that Mrs Rs health at the 
time of the sale wouldve prompted her to decline the cover had Nationwide told her 
more about the things it didnt cover. 
Given this, together with the fact that there were no additional restrictions on cover for 
mental health or back problems, and the policy looks like it was affordable, it seems like 
it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. So I dont think Mrs R would 
have declined the cover had Nationwide done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs R would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Rs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Nationwide should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.But Mrs Rs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Rs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Rs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Nationwide should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Nationwides offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Nationwide didnt tell Mrs R about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Nationwide and Mrs R was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Nationwide didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share 
in this case 
I dont think Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs R because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mrs Rs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipIn summary they have said Mrs R should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Nationwide failed to tell Mrs R about the high commission and profit-share rates 
paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say 
that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mrs R wouldnt have taken out the 
policy had they known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all 
the premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mrs 
R in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Nationwide not disclosing the high level of 
commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mrs Rs representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Nationwides failure to disclose the level of commission for 
the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Nationwide to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Mrs R paid for her PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mrs R 
with the policy Ive concluded above she would still have taken out if Nationwide had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Nationwides offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
I understand that Nationwide has already paid Mrs R compensation on this basis, so I dont 
consider it should do anything further. my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs Rs complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Nationwide Building Society should pay Mrs R an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable.) As I understand that Nationwide Building Society has already paid 
compensation on this basis, I do not consider that it should do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2021. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman