DRN-2951970
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Share Centre Limited ("TSC") deducted fees from his account 
balance without his authority. He wants the fees refunded and for TSC to apologise.
What happened
During 2018 the business of Mr M's previous provider was transferred to TSC by the 
administrators. Account holders were sent information on the transfer by the administrators, 
which included a 'welcome letter' and other documents relating to TSCs business. Mr Ms 
account only held a cash balance of £841.52. 
In or around September 2020, Mr M asked TSC to transfer the balance on his account to his 
bank account. Mr M said the transfer didnt take place until January 2021 and that it was at 
this point he realised fees had been deducted. He said he didnt agree to the fees and that 
theyd been unfairly charged as he only held cash.
TSC said that Mr M would have received details of the charges from the administrator before 
his account was transferred. And that he could have closed his account free of charge within 
the first three months. It wouldnt refund the fees.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that the 
information about the fees had been sent to Mr M at the correct address and that the fees 
had been charged in line with the account terms and conditions.
Mr M didnt agree. He replied in detail saying, in summary, that:
He received letters from the administrators, but he didnt receive the enclosure which 
listed the fees. Mr M wasnt concerned as he only held cash and hed never been 
charged previously.
He didnt sign into the website as he didnt intend to place any trades through his 
account.
He had difficulty getting through to TSC by phone and, when he did, he received different 
advice from staff about what was needed for him to transfer his money to his bank 
account. He had to communicate by email, and he didnt receive his money until 
January 2021.
He never received any statements from TSC, so he didnt know fees were being 
deducted.
There was nothing to administer, and the tariff of charges does not include a fee for 
holding cash.
The total fee charged does not equate to the monthly amount listed on the tariff of 
charges.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has set out his complaint in some detail. Im not going to respond to every single point 
made by the parties involved. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
The information provided by the administrators, and then TSC, was generic information 
intended to cover all aspects of a very significant change - the transfer of business to a new 
provider. In Mr M's specific circumstances, TSCs monthly administration fee of £1.50 plus 
VAT would have been the most significant issue. So, it would clearly have been useful to 
have had it highlighted in the letters Mr M received.
But I don't think in the context of communicating about the transfer itself and all the related 
information about how TSC operated, its terms of business, and so on, that TSC acted 
unfairly or incorrectly. The information was provided and referenced in several places. I think 
it's reasonable to expect affected account holders to give fairly thorough consideration to the 
information provided.
I can understand why Mr M assumed there wouldnt be a charge  and that might be why he 
cant recall receiving TSCs tariff of fees, because he didnt think they would apply to him. 
But the fees were set out reasonably clearly and I dont think TSC treated Mr M unfairly by 
not drawing his attention to the fee applicable in his particular circumstances.
Mr M held £841.52 in his account when it was transferred to TSC. On closure, he received 
£789.32. I find he was correctly charged for 29 months (£1.80 each month, including VAT).
I can understand why Mr M didnt feel the need to register for online access to his account. 
But, had he done so, he was more likely to identify at an earlier stage that he was being 
charged a monthly fee. I cant hold TSC responsible for Mr Ms decision not to apply for 
online access. And Ive seen evidence that TSC emailed quarterly statements to Mr M which 
would have included information about the fees he was being charged.
Mr M mentions that there was around four months delay in him receiving his money. This is 
because TSC had to receive enough information about Mr M and his bank account to 
comply with anti-money laundering procedures. Mr M was clearly frustrated when he was 
unable to easily contact TSC by phone. But hes not mentioned that he needed the money 
for any particular purpose so, whilst he was put to some inconvenience, I cant see that this 
led to a financial loss for which he should be compensated.
I do understand Mr Ms strength of feeling on this matter but, for the reasons Ive explained, 
I dont find TSC acted wrongly or treated him unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman