DRN-3657344
The complaint
Mr C complains that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon has treated him unfairly when 
responding to a request to transfer some pension savings to another provider.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2022. In that decision I explained 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of the 
provisional decision but, for completeness and so those findings form part of this decision, 
I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mr C holds pension savings with Aegon. Those savings were originally held in a 
capped drawdown product that Mr C commenced in 2005. In November 2020 Aegon 
received a request, on behalf of Mr C, from a provider that I will call V for the 
transfer of his pension savings. The request was made via the automated 
Origo Options system.
In December 2020 Aegon completed the transfer request and sent the funds to V. 
But, at that stage V became aware that Mr Cs pension savings had been held in a 
capped drawdown product. V told Aegon that it was unable to accept transfers from 
that type of product and returned the funds.
Aegon noted that V had added a warning to its original transfer instruction asking it to 
get in touch if the funds were originating from a capped drawdown arrangement. 
Aegon says that it failed to notice that instruction and so accepted responsibility for 
the funds being unable to be transferred. It paid Mr C £350 for the inconvenience he 
had been caused, and reversed the transfer activity so that Mr Cs pension savings 
remained in their original investments without a break.
V told Aegon that it would be able to accept Mr Cs transfer if his funds were held in a 
flexi-access drawdown product. Aegon told Mr C that it didnt offer a product of that 
nature. But it made him aware that a sister company, Aegon Investment Solutions 
Limited (AISL) would be able to accept his pension savings into a flexi-access 
drawdown product. But, since AISL only accepted customers who had been advised 
by a financial advisor, it arranged for another sister company Origen Financial 
Services to provide some advice to Mr C.
 
Mr Cs pension savings were transferred into AISLs flexi-access drawdown product 
in February 2021 and a new transfer request was submitted by V. AISL sent those 
funds in March 2021. But they were again returned by V. At that time V had become 
aware that Mr Cs pension savings had been crystalised before 6 May 2006 (also 
known as A-Day). It explained that its product was not designed to accept funds 
crystallised before A-Day and so it wasnt willing to offer it to Mr C.
This complaint was made by Mr C to Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon. But as 
time has moved on, other regulated businesses have become involved. V has 
rejected Mr Cs transfer request on two occasions. Mr C has received financial advice 
from Origen Financial Services. And Mr Cs pension savings were moved into a 
flexi-access drawdown product provided by AISL. Mr C has expressed dissatisfaction 
with some of the actions of each of those companies.
But this complaint only relates to the actions of Scottish Equitable Plc trading as 
Aegon. So my decision on the complaint must effectively stop at the point Mr C took 
advice to transfer his pension savings into the flexi-access drawdown product. That 
means I cannot consider, in this decision, the advice Mr C was given by Origen about 
that transfer, the subsequent investment of his pension savings, and the second 
failed transfer to V. And for similar reasons I cannot consider whether or not it was 
reasonable for V to refuse the transfer of Mr Cs pension savings on either occasion. 
I understand how frustrating that approach might be to Mr C, but I must act within my 
statutory powers. And here that only relates to the matters between Mr C and 
Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon.
 
When it originally sent the transfer request to Aegon, V appended a note saying;
If the transfer is linked to any of the following, please contact us immediately 
before making payment: Any safeguarded benefits i.e. Defined benefits, 
guaranteed pensions including GMPs and GARs. Any other guaranteed 
benefits including protected retirement age or enhanced tax-free cash. 
Benefits in a Capped or Flexi Access drawdown arrangement. Disqualifying 
Pension Credit Benefits. QROPS. Earmarking order. Notification of 
bankruptcy orders. Whether the transfer forms part of a block (truncated) 
transfer.
I agree with Aegon that the above statement does appear to be of a general nature, 
and so doesnt suggest that Mr C had made V aware of the nature of his pension 
savings. But I think, and Aegon appears to accept, that it should have noticed the 
request to get in touch with V, and acted accordingly.
But even if Aegon had got in touch, V would not have accepted the pension transfer 
since the funds were originating from a capped drawdown arrangement. I think that 
Aegon getting in touch with V might have resulted in the transfer being rejected a 
little sooner, but I dont think that delay had any material impact on the value of 
Mr Cs pension savings.
As I said earlier, Aegon has accepted that it didnt do all it should have when looking 
at this transfer request. It has paid Mr C £350 for his inconvenience, and has ensured 
that his pension savings have the same value as if theyd not been transferred and 
returned. I think that is a fair and reasonable response to this part of Mr Cs complaint 
and in line with what I would have directed Aegon to do.
Once it became aware that V wouldnt accept a transfer from a capped drawdown 
product, Aegon explained to Mr C what steps he could take to move his pension 
savings to a flexi-access drawdown product. And it explained that would require him 
to take financial advice before the move could be completed. I can see that Aegon 
put Mr C in touch with Origen  its related financial advisor firm. But I dont think that 
placed any responsibility on Aegon to ensure that Mr Cs transfer was in his best 
interests, or completed correctly. It was simply responsible for acting upon the 
transfer request it received from AISL once Mr C had made his decision, with 
Origens support. I havent seen anything to suggest that Aegon failed to transfer 
Mr Cs pension savings to AISL in a timely manner.I appreciate how disappointing my current conclusions will be for Mr C. My decision 
might cause him to consider that he now needs to complain about the actions of the 
other regulated businesses involved. But that is entirely a decision for him, and not 
something that I, or my colleagues, can provide any advice on. But in terms of this 
complaint, I havent seen anything to currently make me think that Aegon needs to do 
more than it has already in terms of its involvement with Mr Cs transfer request.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Aegon hasnt provided us with anything further. Mr C doesnt agree with 
my provisional decision and has provided some further comments. Although I am only 
summarising here what Mr C has said, I want to reassure him that I have read, and carefully 
considered, his entire response.
Mr C says it is incorrect to conclude that his pension savings didnt fall in value as a result of 
the failed transfer. He says they are approximately £3,000 less. He says that loss was 
largely due to his pension savings being placed into a different investment fund when they 
were returned. He says the new fund is unsuitable for his circumstances. He thinks that 
Aegon should be asked to transfer his pension savings to a more suitable investment fund 
free of charge.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr C has said in response to my provisional decision. But 
Im sorry to tell him that his comments havent persuaded me that I should change those 
findings, as Ill now go on to explain.
In my provisional decision I set out, in some detail, the scope of my jurisdiction over this 
complaint. And I explained why I could only look at what happened up to the point Mr C 
received financial advice from Origen and transferred his pension savings to the flexi-access 
drawdown product offered by AISL. It seems to me that the comments he has made in 
relation to my provisional decision, and the actions he is asking Aegon to take in order to put 
things right, relate to things that happened after that time.
When Mr Cs pension savings were first returned by V, Aegon added back to Mr Cs pension 
account the exact investment fund that he previously held. And the number of units that he 
held also matched what had been there before the transfer. So although it is possible the 
value of those pension savings might have fluctuated, that would have been solely because 
of market changes  changes that would have happened regardless of whether Mr C had 
asked to transfer his pension savings.
I understand Mr Cs frustration that his pension savings now appear to be invested in what 
he considers to be a less suitable fund. But that investment decision was as a result of the 
advice he received from Origen, and the default investments applied by AISL. Neither of 
those actions are the responsibility of the specific regulated business, Scottish Equitable 
trading as Aegon, that is the respondent to this complaint.
So my provisional findings remain unaltered - I havent seen anything to make me think that 
Aegon needs to do more than it has already in terms of its involvement with Mr Cs transfer 
request.My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman