DRN-3813738
The complaint
Mr C complains about information given by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
following a claim against his motability car insurance policy. He also complains about call 
waiting times.  
What happened
RSA received notification of a claim from a third party against Mr C. RSA referred the matter 
to a firm of solicitors on their panel who then contacted Mr C to discuss the claim. Mr C says 
the solicitors told him his motability car would be taken off him unless he signed documents 
admitting liability. So, he complained to RSA. RSA responded and explained theyd seen no 
evidence of any conversation with the solicitors telling Mr C he had to accept liability or he 
would lose his motability car. RSA accepted Mr C had experienced long call wait times and 
offered £35 compensation. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr C. He thought RSA hadnt made any error in 
relation to the liability complaint and felt the £35 for the call waiting complaint was 
reasonable. Mr C disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr C will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Ill start by saying, I can see Mr C has asked our investigator for a copy of the call notes 
provided by RSA. I can see our investigator is working on this, but I dont believe this 
prevents me from making a decision. I say this because, I find the evidence Ive relied on to 
be persuasive and dont believe any further comments will change this. 
 
I can see our investigator has asked RSA for a copy of the call recording where Mr C claims 
the solicitors told him he had to admit liability or his motability car would be taken off him. 
RSA have confirmed the solicitors calls arent recorded but they have provided the solicitors 
call logs noting the discussion they had with Mr C. The notes show the solicitors explained 
the process to Mr C, including him needing to complete a witness statement and attend trial 
and also completing a defence. The notes dont refer to any discussion around the solicitors 
telling Mr C he needs to admit liability or any reference to him losing his motability car. 
Ive thought carefully about whether its possible such a comment was made but not 
recorded on the note. I dont believe that to be the case as the notes discuss a defence and 
trial, and this would only be the case if the solicitors were planning on defending the claim. 
And, that being the case, I think its more likely than not, this wouldnt have led into a 
discussion around Mr C accepting liability to prevent his motability car being taken off him. 
Im further persuaded no discussion around this had taken place as RSAs call notes show 
Mr C made a call to them the same day he spoke with the solicitors. The notes of this call 
refer to Mr C being unhappy about the solicitors explaining hell need to complete a form 
setting out his recollection of events which theyll need to submit to court. Mr C queries how 
hes expected to remember what happened given the length of time since the accident and 
the RSA agent explains he should complete the form to the best of his knowledge. Theres 
no reference in this call note of Mr C claiming the solicitors told him to admit liability or any 
impact on his motability car.
 
The call notes from RSA show, about a month later, there is a discussion between Mr C and 
RSA around the impact of a settled claim against Mr C. The RSA agent explains this would 
be recorded on Mr Cs claims record and this could affect Mr C getting a new motability car 
depending on the claim circumstances  but this is only determined when a motability car is 
returned at renewal. I can see this information is in line with the terms and conditions of     
Mr Cs motability agreement. Again, theres no discussion here about Mr Cs motability car 
being taken off him if he doesnt admit liability. 
I can see Mr C first raises his complaint, about the solicitors, with RSA around seven months 
after his call with the solicitors. The RSA agent reassures Mr C his motability car wont be 
taken off him. I can see RSA then sent a letter to Mr C confirming his motability car wont be 
taken off him as a result of the accident. So, while I havent seen any evidence suggesting 
the solicitors told Mr C his motability car would be taken off him if he didnt admit liability, I 
can see RSA gave Mr C reassurance around this not being the case promptly following him 
raising this as a concern.   
I understand Mr C is also unhappy with the wait times when calling RSA. The key facts 
about this part of the complaint arent in dispute. RSA accept Mr C was kept waiting for 
longer than normal to speak with an agent due to the high volume of calls they receive from 
customers. I can see RSA offered £35 compensation which Mr C accepted and they then 
arranged for this to be sent to Mr C. I think its right that RSA should compensate Mr C and I 
think the compensation theyve offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman