DRN-1555869
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has declined a charge back 
request, and a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA), to refund the 
cost of some solid fuel he purchased on his credit card.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr B and NatWest, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any great 
detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
On the 29 January 2019, Mr B purchased 40 bags of solid fuel from a company I shall call X. 
He paid £256.39, using his credit card, and the fuel was delivered to him on the 1 February 
2019. Having used 3 or 4 bags Mr B thought the fuel was unusable and not fit for purpose, 
so he contacted X. Mr X ultimately sought a refund from X, who, without admitting fault, said 
they would supply him with a partial refund upon return of the unused fuel (less £47 
collection costs), which they asked him to have ready for collection on a pallet. Mr B said he 
wasn't able to put the bags on a pallet as he did not have the ability or equipment to do so.
Upon X refusing to provide a full refund to Mr B, he contacted NatWest on the 16 July 2019 
seeking their help. He was initially passed around on the telephone for some time, and 
NatWest have apologised to him for that. NatWest declined to raise a chargeback request 
stating that it was out of time. It also considered the prospects of a potential claim under 
Section 75, but said that as X was willing to collect the goods and issue a partial refund for 
the unused fuel, there was no breach of contract and thus would not accept a section 75 
claim.
Mr B was unhappy with NatWests final response and so brought the complaint to this 
service and one of our investigators looked into it. Having done so, the investigator didnt 
think that NatWest had done anything wrong and as such didn't think it needed to do 
anything else to resolve the complaint.
Mr B didnt agree with that and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  I have taken into account both sides views in considering whether NatWest acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. I have to make an independent decision about what I 
think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. In this case, I dont think that 
NatWest has done anything wrong and Ill explain why.
The first issue is whether a chargeback claim is out of time. A chargeback claim is a process 
by which some disputes are resolved between card issuer, in this case NatWest, and a 
merchant, under the relevant card scheme rules. 
The chargeback rules are set by the card provider, whose symbol is on the card.  In this 
case it is Visa. That card provider has an agreement with lots of banks as to how its cards 
are used. The agreement covers when an attempt at a chargeback can be made, which if 
successful, would get the money the customer spent on the card spent back. Those rules 
are quite strict, and NatWest doesn't have the power to change them. What is important to 
remember is that making a chargeback request just means NatWest will ask for the money 
back - it doesnt mean it will get it. 
NatWest arent required to ask the scheme provider for a transaction to be reversed, but 
they can do so if they think its likely to succeed. I generally say its good practice for a card 
provider to try one if theres a reasonable prospect of success. Equally, if NatWest think the 
chargeback is likely to be rejected by the card provider then they dont have to raise it. But 
any claim made to the card provider has to be made within a certain time limit, and in the 
case of Visa, that is 120 days. In this case Mr B's request to NatWest was brought well 
outside of that time limit and so it cannot proceed.
The next issue is whether NatWest ought to have accepted a claim under section 75 CCA. In 
certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services, and the provider of the credit. But that is dependent on being 
able to first establish that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. So the crucial issue here was that NatWest had to decide whether, in their view, 
there had been a breach of contract or misrepresentation. Mr B clearly believes there has 
been since he asserts that the fuel was unusable, but as the burden of proving such lies with 
him, it is for him to produce some evidence to support that view. Unfortunately Mr B has not 
provided any such evidence, pointing out the difficulties he faces in obtaining the same, in 
addition to which he feels it would probably be uneconomic to do so given the overall 
contract price. But such considerations do not remove the burden upon Mr B to prove there 
was a breach of contract or misrepresentation.
In so far as any misrepresentation is concerned, as far as I understand it and in general 
terms only, Mr Bs argument is that the fuel does not produce the heat effects as were 
described and advertised. That is his subjective view. But to prove there was a 
misrepresentation Mr B would need some evidence, probably of a technical nature, to show 
that the fuel as producing less heat than advertised. Unfortunately he has none. In so far as 
there might be any breach of contract, the terms I can see were that 40 bags of solid fuel 
would be delivered to his home on a pallet, which they were. There is of course an implied 
term that such goods would be fit for purpose and this brings me back to the issue of proof. 
Mr B has described the supplied fuel had a poor heat output and produced an abundance of 
ash, but without evidence as to the heat output being at any particular level, then as matters 
stands he cannot prove that the fuel if defective in any way or not fulling the implied term of 
the contract. He cannot therefore prove a breach.
Ive gone on to consider Xs response to Mr B following his request for a refund. I can see 
that it was in line with their published terms and conditions which allowed X to make a charge for the collection of the goods. And as Mr B would have been returning goods, in the 
absence of a breach or misrepresentation, then the burden is on him to return them properly 
packaged, which in the case of bagged fuel delivered on a pallet, would mean putting them 
back onto a pallet for collection.
So, although Mr B will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cannot find, on the 
evidence, that a section 75 claim would succeed, and NatWest were therefore correct in 
declining it. As such I cant say NatWest has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not 
upholding this complaint. 
I have also considered the poor service Mr B received when he was kept on the telephone 
for a long time. Sometimes, the problems a customer encounters can lead to frustration, 
annoyance and inconvenience. We call that trouble and upset. It is only right that at such 
times a business should think about what it could do to put matters right, and awarding 
compensation is one way of doing that. But any award for the trouble and upset caused 
needs to be balanced and measured against the ups and downs we all face in daily life when 
dealing with other people, businesses and organisations, and recognising that that can be 
inconvenient at times. Here, NatWest has apologised for keeping Mr B on the telephone for 
so long, and I think that is sufficient.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against National Westminster 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27July 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman