DRN-1139344
Complaint
Mr S says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a credit card. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC is responsible for the sale.
Background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr S 
disagreed with this and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
I see that Mr S originally had PPI with a credit card account with Barclays commencing in the 
1990s. In 2001, we know that his card and PPI were upgraded and Barclays says it got his 
consent for the PPI he already had on the card account to continue when it spoke to him 
over the phone about his new card. We treat these as separate sale events.
I understand that Barclays has settled Mr Ss PPI complaint in so far as it relates to pre-
2001. He cant understand why, if this is the case, his post-2001 PPI complaint shouldnt 
also be settled by Barclays. He finds this inconsistent. Barclays denies that the 2001 change 
and PPI sale resulted in a mis-sale. It says this sale was carried out correctly.
I do understand why this all seems rather odd to Mr S. But we know that between certain 
dates, the way PPI was sold to consumers fell short of what we would now agree to be 
acceptable standards. But for the 2001 PPI application  which occurred when Mr Ss credit 
card terms and conditions were changed - weve also seen quite a few Barclays sales of this 
nature. And generally, we know consumers were told about the optional nature of the PPI 
cover when being asked about it over the phone.
We no longer have access to the actual telephone recording for this 2001 sale, or indeed 
much of the paperwork, but as this was so long ago this isnt particularly unusual. 
Businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely.
Nevertheless, weve seen copies of the telephone script that was used by Barclays staff 
when speaking to consumer like Mr S. As well as being told they had an option, staff were 
instructed to give out the main details of what the PPI covered and how much it cost. On this 
basis, I think its much more likely he agreed to the cover. I note the PPI was also regularly 
shown on his monthly card statements, and I think if he hadnt wanted it he would have 
wanted to know why he was being charged. 
In short, I think he probably agreed to the PPI even though he might not remember now.Barclays agrees it probably recommended the PPI, so it had a duty to make sure it was 
suitable for him. I think it was. I say this because the evidence does tend to show he was 
eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these 
types of policy.  Looking at the work he did, I agree he may have had some sickness 
protection already. But this doesnt necessarily mean the cover wasnt of value. The PPI 
would have paid out 10% of his outstanding credit card balance for up to a year if hed 
needed to claim. This wouldve been in addition to any other means he had at that time. 
Barclays also was required to have provided clear information during the sale. I obviously 
cant say for sure this happened, after such a long time. But as Ive said, this ought to have 
happened given the procedures we know were in place. So Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but 
Im not upholding his complaint; there isnt enough evidence to.
All this means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S. But it has 
agreed to pay back the commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the 
PPI premium. It should also pay back to Mr S any extra interest he paid because of that. 
Barclays should re-work the credit card account and pay back to him the difference between 
what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should also pay Mr S 8%* simple interest if 
he paid off his credit card at some point. Barclays says its done all this.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back all the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S. 
But it does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman