DRN-4017966
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs B complain about esure Insurance Limiteds (esure) settled a claim made 
under their contents policy.  
What happened
Mr S and Mrs B made a claim under their contents policy. The claim was accepted and in 
August 2022 the settlement was agreed. esure said it would send two separate cheques, 
one for £1,000 and one for £3,375.
The cheque for £1,000 arrived but the cheque for £3,375 didnt. Mr S and Mrs B say they 
were told they had to wait until mid-September to declare the cheque as missing. Mr S says 
he called esure and asked they transfer the money directly to his account or send a 
replacement cheque by recorded delivery. A replacement cheque was sent, but not by 
recorded delivery. By the end of October, Mr S and Mrs B still hadnt received the cheque. 
The continued to contact esure and then were told the cheque had been cashed. 
Mr S and Mrs B say they provided esure with a letter from their bank confirming they hadnt 
cashed a cheque for £3,375. Over the next couple of months, they continued to contact 
esure to find out what was happening to replace the cheque. At the end of December, a new 
complaint handler arranged to transfer the missing funds to their account, along with £100 
compensation. 
Mr S and Mrs B complained. esure said its general policy was to send settlements by 
cheque, but that they had agreed to make the payment again, despite an investigation being 
ongoing to determine who had cashed the missing cheque.
Unhappy with esures response, Mr S and Mrs B referred their complaint to this service. It 
was considered by one of our investigators who said while what happened with the cheques 
were outside of Mr S and Mrs Bs control, it wasnt fair to pass on the financial loss to them. 
She said esure should pay 8% simple interest on the missing payment from the date the 
second cheque was sent until the date of the bank transfer in December, and a total 
compensation payment of £150. esure didnt agree with this, so the case has been passed 
to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
esures main argument for not accepting the conclusions reached by our investigator were 
because it interpreted her as saying it should have made the bank transfer before it was 
clear which account the missing cheque had been paid into, and whether it was clear esure 
was going to receive a refund.
However, I dont think thats the argument our investigator put forward. She concluded there 
wasnt a reasonable explanation for delaying reimbursing the missing payment of £3,375 by 
bank transfer when it became clear the first cheque had gone missing. And Im inclined to 
agree with her.
I consider esure delayed settling the claim. From the notes provided, it was mid-November 
when esure received confirmation the missing cheque had been paid into an account that 
wasnt linked to Mr S or Mrs B. esure said it wanted to receive a refund before paying Mr S 
and Mrs B. I dont think it was fair for Mr S and Mrs B to have to wait for a third-party bank 
(who was unrelated to their contents policy) to act before their claim could be settled. I dont 
consider there has been a reasonable explanation for why the claim settlement wasnt made 
at this point. Instead, it was later in December before the bank transfer took place.
esure isnt responsible for either cheque going missing. However, I dont think its fair esure 
made Mr S and Mrs B wait until it was certain it was going to receive a refund from the third-
party bank before settling this claim. The insurance contract was between esure and Mr S 
and Mrs B, the actions of the third-party bank were unrelated. 
Mr S and Mrs B say esure asked them to wait for a total of six weeks before sending the 
replacement cheque. Given there were wider issues with the postal service which could 
have been the reason for the delay in the first cheque being delivered, I consider this was as 
long as it was reasonable to wait before sending the replacement payment. And at that point, 
given the ongoing wider postal issues, I agree it would have been reasonable for esure to 
have arranged a bank transfer rather than sending another cheque. 
I note its not the case esure is unable to settle claims by bank transfer  its just not its 
preference to do so. Given the time that had passed between the cheque for £1,000 being 
received and the replacement cheque for £3,375 being sent, I consider Mr S request for a 
bank transfer was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Its with these conclusions in mind that Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. 
Im satisfied in the circumstances of this complaint it would have been reasonable for esure 
to arrange a bank transfer instead of sending the second cheque. Not doing to caused Mr S 
and Mrs B a financial loss as they did not have access to the claim settlement agreed with 
esure. Im persuaded a fair settlement in these circumstances is for esure to pay 8% simple 
interest on £3,375 from the date the second cheque was sent until the date it transferred the 
money.  
In addition to this, its clear this issue caused Mr S and Mrs B considerable worry. They 
made frequent contact with esure to try and get an update on the funds. They said they were 
unable to replace the missing contents without the funds from esure. To compensate them 
for the distress and inconvenience they experienced, esure should compensate them with a 
total payment of £150, less anything already paid. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. To put things right I require esure Insurance Limited to:
Pay 8% simple interest* on £3,375 from the date the second cheque was issued until 
the date of settlement.
Pay a total compensation payment of £150 (less anything thats already been paid).

*If esure Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from any interest paid, it should tell Mr S and Mrs B how much its taken off. If 
requested, esure should also provide Mr S and Mrs B with a certificate showing the amount 
deducted, so they can reclaim it from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2023. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman