DRN-3117162
The complaint
  Mr M complains about five loans provided to him by Loans 2 Go Limited trading as
Loans 2 Go, which he says were unaffordable.
What happened
 Loans 2 Go provided Mr M with two loans. The details of which are given in this table:
Number Taken Repaid Amount Instalments
1 29/09/2018 13.07 weekly 250 78 weeks
2 25/11/2019 95.99 monthly 420 18 months
Mr M says he feels that Loans 2 Go have irresponsibly lent the money to him on each 
occasion.
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be partly upheld. He 
thought L2G had carried out proportionate checks for loan 1 and made a fair lending 
decision. He then concluded that Loans 2 Go should have sought further information for loan 
2, but in any case, with the information it already had in front of it, it didnt make fair lending 
decisions when it granted these loans.
Loans 2 Go disagreed with our investigators view regarding loan 2. It said it had made 
proportionate checks and a fair decision to lend. Mr M did not make any further comments 
regarding either loan.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review and make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
When Loans 2 Go lent to Mr M the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
Loans 2 Go was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr Ms creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This means that 
Loans 2 Go had to consider both the risk to it that Mr M wouldnt make the repayments 
under the agreement when due, and the risk to Mr M of not being able to make these 
repayments. In particular, Loans 2 Go had to consider Mr Ms ability to make repayments 
under the agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to 
borrow to meet the repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a 
contractual or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant 
adverse effect on his financial situation.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what is appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments 
for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ms case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ms 
loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way? If it did, did Loans 2 Go then make fair lending decisions?
 If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Loan 1 taken by Mr M in September 2018.
Ive looked through the documentation provided by both parties. On this occasion when I 
consider the size and term of the loan and that this was the first time Mr M had contacted 
Loans 2 Go, and also the information that he had disclosed to it, I dont think Loans 2 Go 
needed to do anymore here. 
I agree with the investigator that it didnt need to conduct further checks and with what it had 
in front of it, I think it made a fair lending decision. 
Loan 2 taken by Mr M in November 2019
I can see that Loans 2 Go asked Mr M about his income and expenditure. It has told our 
service that it adjusted Mr Ms income and expenditure based on an online verification tool 
for his income, and its own calculations using what it had in front of it for expenditure. 
It reduced Mr Ms declared income from £1400.00 a month to £1393.48 after verifying this. It 
then increased what Mr M says his expenditure was of £810, to £1214.03, based on checks it carried out this included a credit search. It then added a 10% buffer for any fluctuations in 
spend for Mr M. 
Ive carefully considered what Loans 2 Go has said about how it calculated Mr Ms 
disposable income when it agreed to loan 2. I dont think its checks were proportionate for 
this loan because there was a discrepancy between what Mr M said about his expenditure 
and what it says it could see through its checks each time. I dont think Loans 2 Go should 
have accepted the loan knowing or having reason to suspect Mr M wasnt being truthful 
about his expenditure in this case. In this instance the discrepancy between what Mr M said 
his expenditure was and what Loans 2 Go calculated it was, was quite wide. So, I think 
Loans 2 Go should either have carried out further checks to see if there were good reasons 
for this, or its shouldnt have provided Mr M with the loan. This leads me to think that Loans 
2 Go needed to take steps to verify what Mr Ms actual monthly expenditure was. 
As I cant see that this Loans 2 Go did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out 
before providing Mr M with loan 2 was reasonable and proportionate, bearing in mind Mr M 
would need to meet his loan repayments over 18 months.
But I dont need to look into what it would have seen if it had carried out proportionate 
checks, because I dont think Loans 2 Go made a fair lending decision when it agreed to 
loan 2 anyway, based on what it had in front of it. 
I say this because when I look through the credit search Loans 2 Go carried out for this loan, 
I can see that it shows Mr M was having problems managing his finances. 
The search that Loans 2 Go would have had in front of it showed that Mr M had 3 open 
short-term loans with other lenders. Mr M had applied for two of the short-term loans in 
September 2019 and a further loan in October 2019. He would have been paying all 3 back 
at the time he applied for loan 2 with Loans 2 Go. In addition, Mr M was paying over 34% of 
his income on credit when we applied for this loan and was close to the top of his credit 
utilisation too. It should have been clear to Loans 2 Go when it saw all of this, that Mr M had 
become reliant on short term lending and should have raised concerns that he was having 
problems managing his finances.
So, I conclude, based on what Loans 2 Go had in front of it, it would have seen Mr M 
wouldnt have been able to make repayments on loan 2 in a sustainable way.  
As Mr M has been indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on the loans that 
he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what Loans 2 Go did wrong.
So, I think Loans 2 Go needs to put things right with loan 2 for the reasons given above.
Putting things right
 In line with this Services approach, Mr M shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed for loan 2. With this in mind, Loans 2 Go should:
add up the total amount of money Mr M received as a result of being given loan 2. 
The payments Mr M made should be deducted from this amount. Any payments made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Mr M was given should be treated as 
overpayments and refunded to him;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Mr M to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ms credit file because of loan 2;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint for the reasons set out above and require 
Loans 2 Go Limited, to put things right.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman