DRN-1586248
The complaint
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. 
Miss S says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy Miss S took out on a store card account in December 
1994. It was added to her account when she applied for the card whilst shopping in the 
store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
She mainly says that she wasnt told anything about PPI and the shop assistant filled in the 
form with her and things were very rushed as there were lots of people around. Miss S told 
us that she had other ways to pay her store card if she couldnt work.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
I think AXA made Miss S aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it. I say this because AXA has given us a copy of the store card application 
from the time of sale. I agree this is a poor copy and some of the detail is quite hard to read. 
And I dont know what mightve been said about the PPI  but I think it wouldve been clear 
from the paperwork that it was up to Miss S to say if she wanted to have PPI added on. 
I say this because I can see that there were Yes and No boxes for PPI. So Miss S 
wouldve known it was up to her to say if she wanted PPI. 
And I can also see the yes option is ticked on the form Miss S signed. If she hadnt wanted 
PPI, Miss S couldve ticked the no box instead  this is left blank.
Ive taken into account that Miss S told us that the sales assistant filled out the form with her 
 and I can appreciate that the shop may well have been busy at the time. But this isnt a 
reason for me to uphold her complaint. I would expect Miss S to have checked over the form 
carefully before signing up to this account  so I think she wouldve seen the PPI information 
which is reasonably clearly set out on the form. 
Miss S signed the completed application so it seems to me that she must have agreed with 
the information on the form at the time. So, I think its likely she decided at the time that PPI would be useful to have and Miss S 
chose to take it out with her store card  even if, understandably, she has forgotten this now. 
 
As Miss S made this application in a store I dont think a recommendation was made by 
AXA. This means that AXA didnt have to check if the policy was suitable for her. But it still 
needed to make sure it gave Miss S enough clear information to decide if the policy was 
right for her, taking into account her personal circumstances.
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if Miss S wouldve acted differently, and not bought the policy, if 
better information had been provided. 
On balance, I dont think better information wouldve stopped Miss S taking out the PPI.
Miss S has told us she had 6 months sick pay and she had some savings she couldve relied 
on if she couldnt work. But looking at the likely terms, the policy wouldve paid out a benefit 
on top of any sick pay from work, which couldve been useful  especially if Miss S mightve 
had some extra costs as a result of illness or disability. And it couldve paid her monthly 
store card payments for longer than Miss S couldve relied on getting sick pay through work 
 the policy could've paid out for as long as Miss S was off work sick  clearing her card 
balance in full if she wasnt ever well enough to return to work.   
The policy also provided cover if Miss S lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Although Miss S mentioned having some savings, I don't know if she wouldve always had 
enough savings to rely on if she was unable to work. And having PPI protected her savings 
and gave Miss S some financial security in what would've likely been difficult circumstances 
for Miss S if shed needed to claim on the policy.  
 So I think Miss S couldve benefitted from having PPI.
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look like any of the main policy 
limitations or exclusions wouldve affected Miss S. So I dont think having more information 
about these policy terms wouldve changed her mind about taking out the PPI.
I dont think its likely that AXA gave Miss S clear enough information about the costs of the 
PPI policy. But she chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to  so she seems to 
have wanted it at the time, even if shes forgotten this now. Looked at overall, given the 
benefits PPI offered Miss S, I think it unlikely she wouldve made a different decision if better 
information had been provided. On balance, I think she still wouldve taken out the policy. So 
I dont find that Miss S has lost out as a result of anything that AXA may have done wrong  
and theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 March 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman