DRN-1271222
The complaint
Mr G says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mr G was sold PPI at the same time as taking out a credit card over the internet in 2001. 
Capital One said the policy wasn't mis-sold, but refunded the high levels of undisclosed 
commission and profit share that it received from the premiums Mr G paid. 
Our adjudicator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. Mr G disagreed, so Ive been 
asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasn't mis-sold. Ill explain why.
From what we know about how Capital One sold PPI over the internet, its most likely that Mr 
G wouldve had to actively select PPI during the online credit card application process. So, I 
think Capital One made it clear that Mr G didn't have to take out the PPI, and he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this.
Capital One didn't recommend the PPI to Mr G so it didn't have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have to make sure Mr G got the information he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr G about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I think he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesn't look like he was affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. This means Capital 
One doesn't have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Capital One has paid back some cost of the PPI to Mr G because it got a high level of 
commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr 
G about that. Because Capital One didn't tell Mr G, that was unfair. To put that right, Capital 
One has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the 
PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.Ive thought about everything Mr G has said. But these points dont change my decision.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman