DRN-3362972
The complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society have not located two accounts or paid the 
balances showing in the passbooks he located.
What happened
Mr P located two building society passbooks of accounts in his name that had been opened 
by his mother when he was a child. 
The building societies in question had been merged into a second building society and then 
to Nationwide many years previously, such that all accounts had been migrated to become 
Nationwide accounts. Accordingly Mr P approached Nationwide and asked to withdraw the 
balance as showing in the old passbooks as of 1988 and 1989. However, Nationwide 
declined Mr Ps request. They conducted all relevant searches but couldnt find any record of 
the accounts or the outstanding balance still existing. 
Mr P wasnt happy about this, so he brought his complaint here. Our investigator didnt 
recommend that the complaint be upheld. She didnt find that Nationwide had treated Mr P 
unfairly. Mr P appealed. He said that he didnt close the accounts and didnt understand how 
they could have been closed without his knowledge or consent. As no agreement has been 
reached the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts are not in dispute so Ill focus on the reasons for my decision.
I do understand that Mr P doesnt believe he withdraw the cash or closed the 
accounts. But although the passbooks that Mr P has located show balances in the 
accounts  these are only a snapshot in time, here December 1988 and July 1989. 
Accounts can be closed and money withdrawn without a passbook. This has always 
been so, people lose passbooks but are still able to access their accounts. This can 
cause confusion when old passbooks are located, but it does mean that they are not 
conclusive evidence that the accounts remain open or that the balance wasnt 
withdrawn.
Nationwide merged with the predecessor building society in 2007. Im satisfied that 
Nationwide reviewed its records and attempted to link any previous accounts in Mr 
Ps name but found no trace of the missing accounts. More recently it has also 
conducted a search under his mothers name, as not all child accounts automatically 
switched over when the child became 18. As nothing was found it concluded that the 
accounts were closed many years ago. I appreciate that Mr P feels that the onus is 
on Nationwide to evidence that this is the case, but it is not obliged to hold records 
going back over thirty years. In the circumstances, and as Im satisfied that proper 
searches have been carried out by Nationwide, I dont find that it has treated him 
unfairly. 
Where evidence is incomplete or not available, as is the case here, I have to make 
my decision based on the balance of probabilities. That is, to say what I think is most 
likely to happened given the evidence that is available. In the circumstances, and as 
Im satisfied that proper searches have been carried out by Nationwide, I dont find 
that it has treated him unfairly. Im sorry to disappoint Mr P, but I dont require it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman