DRN-3696048
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy with the Financial Health & Income Replacement policy she was sold. 
ReAssure Limited (Reassure) are now the party responsible for the sale.
Miss W is represented in this complaint. But for ease Ill refer to all submissions being made 
by her.  
What happened
In 1994 Miss W purchased a Financial Health & Income Replacement through Reassure. 
The policy would provide a monthly benefit to replace income in the event Mis W was too 
unwell to work. Cover also included an element of private health care with a cash benefit for 
hospitalisation, an operation cash benefit and rehabilitation benefit. In 2003 Miss Ws policy 
was cancelled. 
Miss W says at the time of sale she was saving for a property. And she wouldve received 
six month full sick pay from her employer so she now thinks his policy was unsuitable for 
her. She said if suitable advice had been given she could have been saving for a house 
deposit instead of paying premiums for unnecessary cover.
Miss W referred the matter to this service. As the sale took place over 15 years ago, our 
investigator looked into if the complaint was brought to us outside the time limits we must 
apply. Miss W confirmed she only became aware she was been a victim of mis-selling after 
contacting her representative and discussing her position at the point of sale. 
Our investigator moved on to consider the merits of the case. She concluded that the policy 
hadnt been mis sold. She was persuaded the benefits of the policy would have provided a 
value to Miss W so she didnt think the policy was unsuitable. 
Miss W disagreed. In summary she said at the time of sale she was single with no 
dependents and no mortgage commitments. She had expenses that could be covered by 
sick pay  even after her six months full pay had ceased. The cost of this coverage should 
have been saved towards her key objective of a deposit. 
So I need to reach a final decision. Your text here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Reassure has implied in their final response letter that they provided advice to Miss W in 
1994. But they dont hold documentation from the sale. Due to the time that has passed 
since the sale I dont think is unreasonable. 
The relevant regulators rules say the business who sold the insurance needs to make sure 
the policy theyve recommended is suitable for the consumers circumstances and needs at 
the time. 
I note Miss Ws comments about her sick pay entitlement with her employer and her need to 
save for a property at the time of sale, so she thinks this cover was an unnecessary 
expenditure. 
There isnt any available information from the point of sale, so Im unable to review whether 
Miss Ws objective of saving to buy a house was assessed. And there is nothing to show this 
type of cover was identified as a need for Miss W and if the policy was affordable for her. 
But I can see from the policy document that aside from the income benefit, the policy also 
provided an element of private health care with a cash benefit for hospitalisation, an 
operation cash benefit and rehabilitation benefit. So overall Im not persuaded this policy was 
unsuitable for Miss W. 
Our investigator made both parties aware that the complaint was potentially brought outside 
the six and three year time limit that applies to the service. The rules state unless 
exceptional circumstances apply or a business agrees, we cant consider a complaint that 
has been made more than six years since the event complained about, and more than three 
years since the consumer should reasonably have been aware they had a reason to 
complain. 
I want to point out that if there was more documentation available, I think its likely this 
complaint wouldve been referred to us too late. I say that because the policy was cancelled 
in 2003  its not clear why this happened, but if Miss W cancelled because she was 
unhappy with the product, then from 2003 she reasonably should have been aware she had 
cause for complaint. So she should have raised her complaint by 2006. But she didnt 
complain until years later. 
In addition, Ive been provided with the schedule of insurance from 1994 and 1999. These 
documents set out that Miss W has an Income Replacement Benefit that is payable after 
13 weeks. Miss W wouldve known about her sick pay entitlements from her employer when 
she read these schedules, so Im persuaded these shouldve also made her aware she had 
a reason to complain if the cover wasnt suitable for her circumstances. However, I note I 
havent seen any schedule that was issued after 1999, so based on the available evidence, 
Im unable to say Miss Ws complaint made has been brought late. 
Miss W said she only became aware shed been a victim of mis-selling after contacting her 
representative and discussing her needs at the point of sale. I dont dispute this, but the test 
isnt when did she become aware, its when she ought reasonably have been aware, and 
Ive set out above when I think this may have happened. 
In summary, it remains that overall Im not persuaded this income and private health policy 
was unsuitable for Miss W.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman