DRN-3255752
The complaint
Ms D has complained about TSB Bank plc, saying they didnt respond to a Subject Access 
Request (SAR).
What happened
This complaint is about a current account overdraft. The current account was opened in 
Ms Ds name at her address in 2011. In 2014, the account entered its overdraft. It later 
defaulted. In January 2020, TSB sold the debt to a debt purchaser Ill refer to as A. The 
debt purchaser (A) appointed a collections agency Ill refer to as M. 
In March 2020, Ms D made a subject access request to M, which was forwarded to A. As 
part of fulfilling their own SAR, A asked TSB for statements, which TSB then sent.
In 2021, Ms D complained to TSB, saying they hadnt answered her SAR. She had also 
disputed the debt with A, and wanted TSB to explain how the debt had arisen.
TSB explained theyd not received a SAR from her before. In response to her complaint, 
they logged her request and then completed the SAR within the required timeframe. They 
explained that the debt was a current account overdraft that hadnt been paid off.
Ms D came to our service. In the meantime, A wrote off the debt.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained the debt had been written off so the dispute was over, and TSB hadnt received 
any SAR before Ms Ds complaint in 2021.
Ms D asked for an ombudsman to look at things afresh. She wanted the businesses involved 
to be penalised. She pointed out that TSB had sent statements, which she felt proved theyd 
received a SAR. She forwarded emails shed sent to M to make the SAR, which she felt 
showed shed made a SAR to TSB. She asked for compensation.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In regard to the dispute, theres not much more that needs to be said. As far as I can see, 
this was a genuine account of Ms Ds, with an overdraft which arose because more money 
was spent than was in the account. The new debt owner  A  have now written it off, and it 
seems both sides are satisfied with that. So theres nothing more TSB need to do there.
In regard to the SAR, I can understand if Ms D and her representative got mixed up about 
who theyd made the request to. But the SAR they sent was to M  an agent acting on behalf 
of A, the new debt owner. M was not working for TSB. TSB had already sold the debt to A.
Ive looked at all of Ms Ds correspondence, as well as As contact history and TSBs contact 
history. And I can see that Ms Ds 2020 SAR only went to M and A, not to TSB. The first 
SAR that TSB got was in Ms Ds complaint in 2021.
As part of answering As own SAR, A did ask TSB for some statements. And TSB sent the 
statements as requested. But A did not ask TSB to do a full SAR of their own.
Ms D pointed to a letter from A saying that A had asked TSB for information but not received 
it yet. That refers to the request for statements. TSB sent the statements after that letter.
Ms D felt that because TSB sent some statements, that must mean they received a SAR 
from her in 2020. But as above, TSB just sent the statements because they were asked to. 
Ms Ds SAR in 2020 was made to M, working on behalf of A. Ms Ds SAR in 2020 was not 
made to TSB. TSB didnt receive a subject access request until Ms Ds complaint in 2021.
Once TSB got a SAR from Ms D in 2021, they fulfilled the request in good time.
I understand Ms D may be unhappy with other businesses involved, but this complaint is 
against TSB  not any other business. So in this decision, I can only consider what TSB did. 
And I have not found TSB to have done anything substantially wrong here. I would also 
clarify that we are not here to fine or punish businesses.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint about TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman