DRN-3837817
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice given by Cambrian Associates Limited (CAL) to transfer 
the benefits from both his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British 
Steel (BSPS) and an existing personal pension plan to a new personal pension 
arrangement. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ds ex-employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for 
insolvent DB pension schemes, paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for 
their lifetime. The compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original 
schemes benefits for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from 
the original scheme. Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer 
their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ds ex-employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
Mr D was concerned about what the recent announcements by his ex-employer meant for 
the security of his pension, so he sought advice. Mr D was introduced to CAL by an ex-
colleague and he met with them in November 2017. CAL completed a financial planning 
questionnaire with him to gather information about his circumstances and objectives.
Amongst other things, this recorded that Mr D was aged 44; he was married with two 
dependent children; he worked full-time and earned around £38,000; his wife also worked 
and earned around £40,000; they had an outstanding mortgage on their home of around 
£60,000 with a remaining term of five years; they had around £80,000 in cash / savings, 
£60,000 of which was in a mortgage offset account meaning they paid no interest on the 
mortgage balance; they had no other liabilities; and their joint income exceeded their 
expenditure by around £1,670 a month. CAL also carried out an assessment of Mr Ls 
attitude to risk, which it deemed to be balanced.
On 19 December 2017, CAL issued a suitability letter setting out its recommendation. This 
said that Mr Ls main needs and priorities were to retire at age 60 and for his wife to retire 
two years later at 55; to achieve a combined income of £30,000; to have flexibility and adjust 
pension withdrawals when other sources of income commenced; and to leave any unused 
pension fund to his wife.
CAL recommended that Mr L transfer his DB pension to a personal pension because it 
wasnt feasible for Mr D to retire early by remaining in the BSPS; flexibility was only possible 
by transferring; transferring met Mr Ds priority to leave a lump sum to his family; and to 
address his concerns about his employer and to provide him with control of his pension. CAL 
also recommended Mr D transfer his existing personal pension to consolidate things and 
provide ease of monitoring; to broaden the available investment fund range; and because it 
believed the fund Mr D was currently invested in was of a higher level of risk than his 
assessed attitude to risk. CAL recommended a pension provider and fund that it said was in 
line with Mr Ds attitude to risk.
Mr D accepted the recommendation and some time afterwards around £280,000 was 
transferred to his new personal pension  the combined value of his two pensions.
Mr D complained to CAL in 2022, using the services of a representative about the suitability 
of the transfer advice. He raised a number of points, but in summary he said that he should 
not have received transfer advice based on a proposed retirement income strategy that was 
16 years away, instead the advice shouldve been based on his existing provision and if this 
was likely to provide what he required in retirement. 
CAL didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. In summary it said the advice was suitable and Mr D 
hasnt been disadvantaged. It said Mr Ds specific objectives could not be met by his current 
pensions. It said it wasnt possible for Mr D to generate the income he needed at age 60 and 
he wouldve faced a significant income shortfall and wouldve had to delay his retirement by 
two years until his wife retired and drew her pension. It said without a transfer Mr Ds 
objective of leaving unused funds to his family wouldnt have been possible  the DB 
scheme only paid an income upon death. Mr Ds desire to have flexibility and reduce his 
income at age 70 would also not have been possible without the advice given. And in 
relation to the advice to transfer Mr Ds existing personal pension plan, it said there was only 
one fund with the existing provider which matched Mr Ds attitude to risk and when 
compared against the performance of the recommended fund, Mr D hasnt lost out.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr D referred his complaint to us. One of our Investigators 
looked into the complaint. They thought the advice was unsuitable as Mr D wasnt likely to 
improve on the benefits he was already guaranteed by transferring  something CAL itself 
noted in the suitability report. And they didnt think there were compelling reasons to transfer, 
which would outweigh this. They said Mr D couldve met his income need by remaining in 
the DB scheme because his need for an income of £30,000 was a combined income with 
that of his wife, so there wasnt a significant shortfall as CAL had argued in its final response 
letter. They said death benefits shouldnt have been prioritised over providing an income in 
retirement.
And they said, because Mr Ds retirement was many years away, he didnt reasonably know 
that his spending would reduce once he reached 70 and so whether he needed flexibility to 
reduce his income. They said while the main purpose of the advice meeting was to seek 
advice on Mr Ds BSPS benefits, they thought if hed been advised not to transfer, he 
wouldnt have gone ahead with the single transfer of his other personal pension plan. They 
said they didnt think the costs involved were justified, so this wouldve stayed as it was. They said if suitable advice had been given, Mr D wouldve most likely transferred to the 
BSPS2 - Mr D had no need for a significant lump sum on retirement and they thought the 
higher starting income of the BSPS2 would have appealed more.
CAL disagreed. It said the Investigators finding that no income shortfall wouldve occurred if 
Mr D had remained in the DB scheme failed to take into account that he might take a lump 
sum and a reduced pension. It said this would leave Mr D and his wife short of their desired 
income. It said flexibility was also not possible if Mr D remained in the DB scheme, so he 
wouldnt have been able to reduce his income at age 70. It said Mr Ds priority for better 
death benefits wasnt taken into consideration by the investigator. It said Mr D wouldnt have 
been able to transfer in the future if hed entered the PPF. And it disagreed that Mr D 
wouldve chosen the BSPS2  his distrust of his ex-employer meant this was unlikely. It also 
challenged the basis of the redress calculation  it said this should be against the PPF 
because the BSPS2 was guaranteed to go ahead at the time of the advice. 
In relation to the personal pension transfer, it said the investigator focused solely on cost, but 
the limited range of funds didnt give the flexibility to change strategy when required. And it 
repeated its claim that the performance of the recommended fund means Mr D hasnt lost 
out. It said overall its advice was suitable and met Mr Ds objectives.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. They added that because Mr D 
didnt say he had a need for a lump sum, hed have likely chosen the highest possible 
income and this wouldve meant hed have enough income without transferring. And they 
repeated their view that Mr D wouldve likely opted for the BSPS2.
Because things couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was referred for a final 
decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of CAL's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, CAL should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ds 
best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, that CAL was required to carry out by the 
regulator, said that the critical yield - how much Mr Ds pension fund would need to 
grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme  was 
8.98% to match the full pension hed have been entitled to under the scheme at age 
60. Or to match the maximum tax-free cash and reduced pension the scheme would 
provide at that age, was 7.57%. To match the full pension the PPF wouldve paid 
from 60 the critical yield was 4.26% and to match the tax-free cash and reduced 
pension the PPF wouldve offered, it was 3.92%.
Despite the fact it was known by the point CAL instructed the TVAS that continuing in 
the BSPS in its existing form wasnt an option for Mr D, the analysis was based on 
the BSPS benefits. And CAL didnt undertake any analysis of the benefits hed have 
been due under the BSPS2, even though details were available. I think it shouldve 
done. In any event, given what we know about the BSPS2, I think the critical yields to 
match the benefits the BSPS2 wouldve provided from age 60 were likely to be 
between those of the BSPS and the PPF.
Given Mr Ds recorded balanced attitude to risk, the discount rate of 4.3% for 15 
years to retirement and the regulators middle projection rate, I think Mr D was 
always likely to receive pension benefits, from age 60, of a lower value that those 
hed have been entitled to under the BSPS2 by transferring and investing in line with 
that attitude to risk. And indeed the suitability report said this level of return wasnt 
achievable year on year.
While on a reduced pension basis through the PPF the critical yield was lower than 
both the discount rate and the regulators middle projection rate, I still think the 
opportunity to improve on the benefits available through the PPF at age 60 by 
transferring and investing in line with a balanced attitude to risk was limited. 
For this reason alone, I dont think a transfer to a personal pension arrangement was 
in Mr Ds best interests.
CAL recorded that Mr D wanted to retire at 60 and that a personal pension would 
provide flexibility in retirement so he could adjust his income withdrawals when other 
income commenced  specific reference was made to age 70 when Mr D expected 
his income need to reduce. While at age 44 Mr D might have given some thought to 
his future retirement, theres nothing to indicate he had anything that could be 
reasonably described as a firm retirement plan.Mr D, no doubt, liked the idea of retiring early. And he already had this option 
available to him  he didnt need to transfer to achieve this. While he couldnt take his 
DB scheme benefits flexibly, nothing indicates he had a strong need to access a 
lump sum and defer taking an income. Indeed a lump sum was recorded as not being 
a priority. And Im not persuaded Mr D knew with any degree of certainty that hed 
have a need to vary his income throughout retirement. I dont think Mr D was in any 
position at this stage to know for example that his income need would likely reduce 
once he was age 70. This was still 25 years away. 
Mr D might have been attracted to the flexibility a personal pension provided  but 
given he had no apparent need for it, I think CALs reference to this was simply a 
feature or a consequence of transferring to a personal pension rather than a genuine 
objective of Mr Ds. So I dont think transferring to obtain flexibility was in his best 
interests. 
CAL recorded that Mr D needed £30,000 a year (combined) as a target income from 
age 60. But CAL didnt carry out any detailed expenditure in retirement analysis to 
arrive at this figure. I think it was too soon anyway for Mr D to reasonably know what 
his needs would be in 15 or so years time. That said, the figure doesnt look 
unreasonable. And despite CALs argument to the contrary, I think Mr D couldve met 
his stated income needs by remaining in the DB scheme.
£30,000 was a combined or joint need with his wife. When Mr D reached 60 his wife 
would continue to work for at least two more years based on her target retirement 
age of 55. And given her income was £40,000 a year, with no mortgage to pay 
(recorded as being £1,000 a month) it seems likely that this would meet all of their 
expenditure needs. CAL noted in the suitability report in relation to income protection 
that Mr D and his wife each earned £2,300 net per month and therefore you could 
manage on just one salary once your mortgage is repaid. Its possible therefore that 
Mr D wouldnt need to access his pension until age 62 when his wife stopped 
working. And this would mean less of an actuarial reduction and so a higher starting 
income from his DB pension.
But if Mr D chose to take his BSPS benefits at age 60, CALs analysis showed that, 
under the existing scheme Mr D would be entitled to a full pension of £12,660 a year. 
When Mr Ds wife retired, her pension was forecast to be just over £13,100 a year 
leaving an income deficit of around £4,200. But this couldve been met by Mr D 
accessing his savings until his current occupational pension of around £7,600 a year 
became payable at 65 (he and his wife had around £80,000 with the capacity to 
increase this in the years to retirement.) Mr Ds state pension would then supplement 
things further. Alternatively Mr D might also have been able to access his current 
workplace pension early if he didnt want to use his savings at this time. He was 
contributing to the defined-contribution element of this hybrid scheme, which would 
allow him to buy more benefits, so its possible that taking account of any actuarial 
reduction, this wouldve also given him what he needed.
That said, as CAL recorded in the suitability letter, in 2028 the earliest age benefits 
can be taken increases from 55 to 57. So, unless Mr Ds wife had a protected 
retirement age of 55, its likely shed have to continue working for a further two years 
than indicated. This would likely mean Mr D could wait even longer to access his 
pension benefits, which in my view strengthens the case that Mr Ds retirement 
income needs could likely be met by retaining his DB scheme benefits. CAL said that Mr D couldnt achieve things if he took a lump sum and a reduced 
pension from the BSPS. But accessing a lump sum wasnt a priority for Mr D. He 
already had significant cash savings, which he would likely add to in the years to 
retirement, so any lump sum need couldve been satisfied using this. Furthermore he 
had his existing personal pension plan valued at around £33,000 he could access 
flexibly and CAL recorded that his wife would receive a lump sum of around £40,000 
with her pension. So I dont think CALs argument demonstrates a transfer was in 
Mr Ds best interests and that he couldnt achieve things by remaining in his DB 
scheme. 
CAL says the transfer provided significant death benefits for Mr Ds family, which was 
one of his key priorities. But the priority here was to advise Mr D about what was best 
for his retirement. And the existing scheme offered death benefits, by way of a 
spouses pension, that couldve been valuable to his family in the event of his death.
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also 
been reduced by any income Mr D drew in his lifetime. And so may not have 
provided the legacy that Mr D may have thought it would. 
If Mr D had wanted to leave a legacy for his family, CAL couldve explored life 
insurance as an alternative. Reference was made in the suitability report to a whole 
of life policy for a sum assured for the amount of the transfer value, which was 
discounted on cost  around £200 a month  and because Mr D didnt want to have 
to commit to paying this for the rest of his life. But I dont think this was a fair and 
balanced way to present this option to him  it shouldve been based on what amount 
he wanted to leave to his family instead. Afterall, Mr D wanted to leave whatever 
remained of his pension upon his death, which was likely to be a lot lower than the 
original transfer value amount. It was recorded that he had significant disposable 
income through which he couldve met the associated premiums. And this couldve 
been considered on a whole of life or term assurance basis  which was likely to be 
cheaper. But there's little evidence CAL did so.  
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr D. I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative. And ultimately CAL should not have encouraged 
Mr D to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement. 
I think Mr Ds desire to move his pension to an individual plan that was under his 
control was overstated. I cant see that he an interest in or the knowledge to be able 
to manage his pension funds on his own for example. And the recommendation 
seems to have been given on the basis hed receive, and pay for, ongoing support 
with his pension. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr D  it was, 
again, simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Mr D may have legitimately held concerns about how his ex-employer had handled 
his pension and the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was CALs role to objectively 
address those concerns. At the time of the advice, all signs pointed toward the 
BSPS2 being established. And this shouldve been the stance it took with Mr D. But 
even if not, the PPF still provided Mr D with guaranteed income and the option of 
accessing tax-free cash. Mr D was unlikely to improve on these benefits by 
transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as concerning as he mightve thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about this meant that transferring was in his best 
interest.
Like the Investigator, Im not persuaded Mr D wouldve gone ahead with the transfer 
of his existing personal pension if suitable advice had been given for Mr D to retain 
his BSPS benefits. One of the key reasons for the recommendation was 
consolidation and ease of monitoring  but this wouldve fallen away if hed retained 
his DB scheme. I dont think the increased charges -1% instead of the current 0.5% -
of the recommended plan justified the transfer. And if CAL believed that the risk 
profile of the investment fund Mr D was currently invested in was too high, despite 
what it described as a limited choice of funds, it couldve recommended he switch to 
an alternative fund which it deemed better matched his attitude to risk. I dont think 
the value of this pension justified a transfer to support CALs argument that it 
provided a greater range of funds and so flexibility to change investment strategy as 
required.
So I think Mr D wouldve likely left this plan as it was if suitable advice had been 
given and he retained his DB pension. 
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ds best interest to give up 
his DB benefits along with his existing personal pension and transfer them to a personal 
pension arrangement at this time - particularly when he had the option of opting into the 
BSPS2. And I also havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr D wouldve insisted on 
transferring, against advice to remain in the DB scheme  he had little investment knowledge 
or experience and nothing suggests to me that he had the requisite confidence or skill to do 
so. So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr D received from CAL was 
unsuitable for him.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding redress is to put Mr D as far as possible in the position he would be in 
now if CAL had given him suitable advice. I consider Mr D would most likely have remained 
in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been 
given. I also think he wouldve retained his existing personal pension arrangements.
What should CAL do?
To compensate Mr D fairly, CAL must determine the combined fair value of his transferred 
pension benefits as outlined in Step One and Step Two below. If the actual value is greater 
than the combined fair value, no compensation is payable.
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the personal pension plan at the date of the 
calculation.
Fair value  step one
As I said above, I consider Mr D would most likely have remained in the occupational 
pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. CAL must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
CAL should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr D and the Financial Ombudsman Service 
upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what CAL based the 
inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr D has not yet retired, and he has no firm plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ds 
acceptance of my final decision.
Fair value  step two
CAL must use the notional value to determine the fair value of Mr Ds personal pension 
transferred if suitable advice had been given. 
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Value of 
(the 
personal 
pension 
transferred)Still exists 
but illiquidNotional 
value from 
previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 90 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Notional value
This is the value of Mr D's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. CAL should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any withdrawal from the transferred personal pension should be deducted from the notional 
value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if CAL totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, CAL will need to determine a 
fair value for Mr D's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair 
value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr D wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr D's circumstances and risk attitude.
The combined value of the sums produced by the above two steps is the combined fair 
value.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, CAL should:
calculate and offer Mr D redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr D before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr D receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr D accepts CALs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr D for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ds end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr D as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, CAL may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ds likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensationrequires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Cambrian Associates 
Limited to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Cambrian Associates Limited pays Mr D the balance.
If Mr D accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Cambrian Associates 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman