DRN-2435572
The complaint
X and Mr S have complained that they received conflicting advice from British Gas Insurance 
Limited (BG) about the safety of the boiler in their rental property and were rushed into 
replacing it. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and has been summarised by 
our investigator. I wont therefore repeat it again here but will instead focus on my reasons 
for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken account of what X and Mr S have said in response to our investigators view. 
However Im not going to uphold their complaint and Ill explain why.
My starting point is the written records of the various engineers visits. Ive seen BGs 
engineer visit records which contains BGs record of what its engineer reported after each 
visit. Ive also seen the service visit reports left behind by BGs engineers although no such 
report was left behind after the engineers visit on 23 December 2019. 
X and Mr S also received information from their letting agents who were present when BGs 
engineers attended their rental property. To the extent that this information differs from that 
in BGs records, I have to regard contemporaneous written records as more likely to be 
accurate than a verbal account or a recollection. I cant treat such records as incorrect 
unless there is good evidence to suggest that they are.
BGs records show that on 28 December 2017, the engineer recorded:
CODE5** SECONDARY HEAT EX FLUE HOOD CORRODED REPLACEMENT 
REQD.
The record for the engineers visit on 29 December 2017 states:
CODE5** REPLACED FLUE HOOD. LPOD PARTS DUE TO SYSTEM ERROR. COD 
OK ADV RSL* EFF 
The entry for Engineer 1s visit on18 November 2019 states:
 CODE5** ASV* AT RISK RUST AND HIGH EMISSIONS LDF SEALS RADS OK DEC 
HAS* ADVISE AND TURN OFF CHB
The entry for Engineer 1s visit on 25 November 2019 states:
CODE5** ASV* OK CLEANED BP* PT LDF SEALS RADS COD OK ADVISED RUST 
AND PARTS LIMITED.
The entry for Engineer 2s visit on 23 December 2019 states:
CODE5** CASE RUSTED THROUGH PINHOLED/CAPPED BOILER LEFT ID 
TTOMB DROP
[*ASV means Annual Service Visit, HAS means Heating Service Advisor and RSL means 
Reduced Service Listing i.e. not all parts for the boiler are available, BP means boilerplate].
[**BG has stated that Code 5 means Heating Service Advisor appointment declined 
following advice and that it is used when an engineer has advised on a new boiler quote 
which the customer has declined].
BGs records also indicate that Engineer 1, who attended on 18 and 25 November 2019, and 
Engineer 2, who attended on 23 December 2019, both noted the presence of rust.  The 
engineer who had attended two years earlier, on 28 December 2017, had also noted 
corrosion and declared the boiler unsafe, but he replaced the corroded part the following 
day, rendering it safe.
The third-party engineer who attended on 24 December 2019, whose findings are contained 
in his invoice, didnt make any reference to rust, but instead he stated: 
The control panel has come away from the boiler leaving two holes in the main case 
meaning boiler is immediately dangerous. Will need new boiler. (my emphasis 
underlined)
After making enquiry of its engineers, BGs Customer Delivery Manager stated:
The controls covers, which covers the bottom of the boiler and the printed circuit 
board was left in place. The controls unit which holds the printed circuit board which is 
housed in the controls cover was also left in place, whoever this had come away from 
the main casing of the boiler which left two holes in the boiler which made it unsafe 
and was why it was condemned. As stated and confirmed by our last engineer no parts 
of the boiler where removed from the property. (sic) (my emphasis underlined)
There therefore seems to be agreement that the control panel hadnt been removed from the 
property, but had come away, leaving two holes. Both the third-party engineer and BG agree 
that this rendered the boiler unsafe irrespective of the issues with rust that had previously 
been identified.
Neither comment specifically on whether it was repairable, but the third-party engineer said a 
new boiler was needed, and BGs records show that its engineers had noted in 2017 and 
2019 that a new boiler had been advised as evidenced by the CODE5 entries in the work 
records quoted above. I accept that the service records that X and Mr S shouldve seen dont 
record this advice so I cant say that they shouldve been aware of it. However I dont 
consider that this has any relevance to the complaint against BG, which is about inconsistent 
advice, not the absence of it.
X and Mr S refer to multiple errors made by BGs engineers. I take this to include a reference 
to the fact that Engineer 1 verbally declared the boiler safe on 18 November 2019 but his 
service sheet said that it was unsafe, and he then confirmed it safe again on 25 November 2019. This does beg the question as to what had changed to enable him to issue a new 
safe certificate, although with a warning Need to keep an eye on rust. 
BGs records show that he returned on 25 November at the request of the letting agent who 
asked him to go back and recheck. BG says he re-looked and cleaned the boilerplate. He 
then said it was ok but a new boiler was definitely needed as it wouldnt last long. 
BG has explained that there is a degree of subjectivity in such assessments and two 
engineers might have differing opinions as to the point at which a boiler should be declared 
to be unsafe. X and Mr S are concerned that Engineer 2 had his thinking conditioned by 
Engineer 1s initial assessment that the boiler was unsafe and ignored the subsequent safe 
assessment, but in his own assessment he relied not just on the presence of rust but on the 
fact that the control cover had come away. He was therefore in agreement with the third-
party engineer. As the boiler has now been removed it isnt possible to establish whether a 
repair mightve been possible or whether the boiler wouldve been beyond economic repair 
given the presence of rust.
I consider that its more likely than not that the boiler needed to be replaced. X and Mr S say 
they felt under pressure to get a new boiler as soon as possible out of concern for their 
tenants but couldnt shop around due to the time of year. The timing was unfortunate, but I 
dont consider that BG is to blame for this. They decided to have BG supply and fit a new 
boiler for £3,260. The third-party engineer provided a quote of £2,200 + VAT for the supply 
and fitting of a new boiler. So without shopping around they couldve paid less than they did.
My conclusion is that a BG engineer and an independent third-party engineer were both of 
the view that the boiler needed to be replaced because the control panel had come away, 
and that theres no evidence to suggest that this was due to anything BGs engineers had 
done or failed to do. Given the rust issues going back to 2017 and the restricted availability 
of parts, it seems this boiler would in any event have needed to be replaced sooner rather 
than later. 
Ive been unable to identify any fault on the part of BG that it hasnt already addressed with 
the compensation that its paid X and Mr S for the additional costs they incurred in ensuring 
the wellbeing of their tenants and for the inconvenience they suffered. 
I therefore dont think its reasonable for me to require BG to make any contribution towards 
the cost of the new boiler.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not  upholding X and Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman