DRN-3549456
The complaint
Mr D complains HIFX Europe Limited trading as XE (XE) failed to carry out a foreign 
exchange contract that he had instructed. 
What happened
Mr D says he instructed XE to purchase £20,000 in Euros but as he had not had any 
confirmation of this and the monies hadnt arrived in his Euro bank account, he contacted XE 
by telephone and online chat. Mr D says he asked XE to clarify the situation by email, but 
after a few hours he hadnt heard from XE so using live chat he requested a full refund as 
he felt XE couldnt be trusted to handle his money. Mr D says he then received an email 
from XE stating it was going to charge him a cancellation fee. 
Mr D says he asked XE to honour the existing transaction and he wouldnt be paying a 
cancellation fee for XEs mistake  Mr D says he then received an email asking a series of 
questions to assist with its screening process, which he wasnt prepared to answer and that 
he was raising a complaint. Mr D says he wants XE to carry out the original foreign 
exchange contract and reimburse him for the time he has spent dealing with the matter.   
XE says the initial delay was due to it needing to carry out its usual customer security checks 
but it couldnt speak to Mr D by telephone, as he had asked for this to be emailed to him 
instead. In the meantime, XE says Mr D had asked for the return of his £20,000 using a web 
chat facility. In view of this, XE says the contract was cancelled on Mr Ds instructions. XE 
says it has since refunded Mr D in full waving any cancellations costs. XE says it isnt at fault 
and dont feel any further compensation is appropriate. 
Mr D wasnt happy with XEs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt XE had correctly cancelled the contract when it was asked to refund the 
£20,000 by Mr D. The investigator says XE has now refunded all the associated cancellation 
charges and put Mr D back into the position he would have been in prior to the transaction. 
The investigator didnt think it was fair to ask anything further of XE. 
Mr D didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr D to discover a foreign exchange 
transaction he had requested, hadnt been processed and further information was required 
from him for that transaction to progress. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if XE acted unreasonably when it asked Mr D 
for further information before his requested foreign exchange contract could be fulfilled, and 
if it was correct to cancel this transaction when it did. 
This service has been provided with comprehensive documentation by both parties and 
while that has proved helpful, I wont be commenting on every piece of information I have 
seen, thats not to say I havent considered these  I have. 
Mr Ds complaint centres around the problems he faced when instructing XE to carry out a 
request to purchase £20,000 worth of Euros. Mr D says he instructed XE to carry out the 
transaction over the weekend expecting for it to take place on Monday 7 March 2022. Mr D 
says he couldnt see the transaction had taken place on the Monday, so he contacted XE the 
following day and says as he wasnt getting anywhere, he then asked XE to explain the 
issues by email. Mr D says when after a few hours had passed and nothing was received 
from XE by email, he then contacted XE again by live chat and asked it to refund back the 
£20,000 to his sterling bank account, as he wasnt happy with XEs ability to deal with his 
affairs.  
Mr D is upset that XE then asked him in an email, a series of security questions that needed 
to be answered if he wanted the transaction to be reinstated and that he was also to be 
charged a cancellation fee, at which point Mr D lodged a formal complaint with XE 
requesting compensation for its failure to complete the contract.
I understand the points Mr D makes but Im not fully persuaded that XE are solely at fault 
here. From the information I have seen, XEs compliance team internally raised security 
questions, but it was unable to clarify these over the phone with Mr D as he had previously 
requested for any questions to be sent to him by way of email. From the information and 
contact notes I have seen, Mr D had decided that XE couldnt be trusted, so in a web chat 
around midday on 8 March 2022, he instructed the £20,000 transaction to be refunded. With 
that in mind I am satisfied the only way XE could accomplish this would have been by 
cancelling the foreign exchange contract, which it did. 
While Mr D feels XE should compensate him for the exchange loss and his time dealing with 
the matter, I am satisfied, if the security questions had been answered by him on 8 March 
2022, as unwelcome as these may have been, this transaction would have gone ahead and 
the resulting problems could have been avoided. 
Its also worth saying XE have a responsibility to satisfy itself as to the genuineness of such 
a transaction and this is part of its responsibilities to the regulatory authorities, and although 
Mr D may not agree, its not for me to tell XE what questions it should or shouldnt ask. 
Its fair to say XE recognised Mr D wasnt happy with the level of communication and service 
it had provided, and although it originally informed Mr D he was liable for a cancellation fee, 
it subsequently agreed to waive this and Mr D was fully reimbursed the £20,000. 
I am satisfied that was a fair outcome in the circumstances. 
While Mr D will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of XE here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman