DRN-3600844
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the quality of furniture she purchased using finance provided by
Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano). 
What happened
I issued an initial provisional decision on this complaint in June 2022 and a further 
provisional decision earlier this month. An extract from that most recent provisional decision 
is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators view of this complaint, but I dont currently agree with the
redress hes suggested. I know that will disappoint Ikano but please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or in whole, with a fixed
sum loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to make a claim under section 75 of the
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). That says that in certain circumstances, the
borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the
supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months
we are to assume it was present at the point of supply, when Ikano were jointly responsible
for the quality of the goods. In this case the furniture was over six months old when Mrs B
complained to Ikano, so it is for Mrs B to demonstrate the faults were there, or developing,
when the goods were supplied to her.
Mrs B has had a couple of inspectors visit her from the supplier. During one visit an attempt
was made to tighten fabric but the inspectors found no faults.
Whilst the suppliers internal technicians didnt think there was a fault with Mrs Bs sofa the
inspector she commissioned, who is independent of this issue, thought there were faults. He
noted that the hinges were broken on the footstool and that the arm cushions were
displaced. He thought both of these issues were manufacturing faults.
Im persuaded by the independent inspectors expert, independent, view that Mrs B has
provided sufficient evidence that there were faults developing on the goods when they were
supplied to her.
The investigator suggested that Ikano should be given a further chance to repair the goods
in line with the inspectors report. But the relevant legislation only allows a business one
opportunity to attempt a repair. It does not give a business one chance to repair each
separate fault that may occur. Whether goods are of satisfactory quality when supplied
refers to the goods as a whole not each separate component. Indeed, the more separate
faults - the more likely it is the goods arent of satisfactory quality.
Putting things right
As a repair hasnt been successful Ikano should now allow Mrs B to reject the goods she
bought under the agreement. As the goods were bought as a set this will mean the whole set
will need to be collected from Mrs B and at no cost to her.
Ikano will need to refund any finance instalments Mrs B has paid but the relevant legislation
allows them to retain some of the money thats been paid in respect of the use the consumer
has had from the goods. Mrs B has explained that she started having problems early on and
is clearly still experiencing those issues. Whilst the concerns raised by the inspector would
have impacted on her comfort to some extent its clear Mrs B has still been able to use the
furniture. So, Im asking Ikano to retain 75% of the finance instalments Mrs B has paid in
respect of the use Mrs B has had but theyll need to refund the rest.
If Ikano dont collect the goods within a month of my final decision on this matter (if Im not
persuaded to amend this provisional decision) they will need to refund 100% of any
instalments Mrs B makes after that point as it wouldnt be fair to expect Mrs B to retain the
goods indefinitely.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Ikano
Bank (publ) to:
End the finance agreement and collect the goods at no cost to Mrs B.
Refund all finance instalments paid, retaining 75% in respect of the use Mrs B has
had from the goods.
Refund any finance instalments paid more than one month after my final decision on
this complaint if the goods havent been collected by then.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ikano didnt provide any additional information for me to consider but Mrs B did. She didnt
think it was fair to ask her to pay 75% of the costs and she explained how uncomfortable thefurniture had been. She said the suite was embarrassing to invite guests to sit on, as it is
saggy, misshapen and terribly uncomfortable.
Mrs B went on to explain that she hadnt made any payments towards her agreement and
had paid by credit card to ensure she had some protection in case something went wrong 
as had been the case here. She said she had complained to the supplier within the first six
months although she hadnt raised the issue with Ikano until later. Mrs B also explained that
shed had to pay £48 for the inspection report to demonstrate the faults that were present;
she wanted me to ask Ikano to refund that.
Ive had a look at the credit agreement and can see that it was a fixed sum loan and not a
credit card that appears to have been used to pay for the goods. Mrs B may have been
confused about that, but its clear the fixed sum loan covers goods purchased from the
supplier Mrs B says she got the furniture from and for the same value. Ikano havent sought
to argue that point and Im persuaded Ikano do have responsibility for this claim.
Mrs B has explained that she hasnt made any payments towards the agreement, but I still
think its fair she pays for the use shes had from it. For the same reasons Ive given above I
still think Mrs B should pay 75% towards the goods as she has had use from the goods over
about a two-and-a-half-year period. If a balance therefore remains on the agreement Ikano
should arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mrs B to pay that off in an affordable and
sustainable way.
As I have been persuaded by the independent inspectors report that there is evidence the
furniture was faulty when supplied then I dont think it matters when Mrs B first made her
complaint about its quality. The redress is the same, although I appreciate Mrs B setting out
the timeline for me.
Im sorry I missed the fact that Mrs B had paid for the inspection report. She wouldnt have
had to have done that if the furniture was of an acceptable quality. So, I think this was a cost
she incurred as a consequence of the quality concerns she had. Ikano should therefore
refund the £48 Mrs B paid for the report and theyll need to add interest to the refund as Mrs
B has been deprived of that money.
As this changes the redress Im suggesting Im obliged to issue a further provisional decision
to enable Mrs B and Ikano to provide any further comments they may wish to. Im limiting the
response time for those further comments as the issues to consider have been significantly
narrowed and I dont want to keep Mrs B waiting for redress any longer than is necessary.
My provisional decision
Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Ikano Bank AB (publ) to: 
End the finance agreement and collect the goods at no cost to Mrs B.
Refund all finance instalments paid, retaining 75% in respect of the use Mrs B has
had from the goods. If a balance remains Ikano should arrange an affordable
repayment plan with Mrs B.
Refund, or waive, any finance instalments paid more than one month after my final
decision on this complaint if the goods havent been collected by then.
Refund the £48 Mrs B paid for the inspection report and add 8% simple interest per
year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ikano responded to my most recent provisional decision. They said it was unfair to treat the 
inspection visit by the supplier as a repair visit as no fault was found or repair completed. 
They said Mrs B therefore didnt have a right to reject the furniture. They also explained that 
they were unconvinced by the independent inspectors findings. They suggested the hinge 
damage could have occurred because of misuse and they didnt feel the photographs 
showed any faults. Ikano said they should commission a further independent report.
Mrs B didnt think it was fair to ask her to pay anything towards the suite. She explained that 
shed had to use pillows to fold over the arms, so that they were not leaning on almost bare 
wood, and she said the furniture was clearly not of satisfactory quality. She didnt think it was 
fair for her to be paying for the use of the goods whilst the complaint had been processed. 
She said You have upheld my complaint, but I will have to pay Ikano Bank £1486.47 for two 
and a half years of discomfort and when I have done that, they will take the suite away and I 
will have nothing! and she added that she would have expected the suite to have lasted 10 
years.
I dont agree with Ikanos additional comments. I think the suppliers visit was an opportunity 
for them to complete repairs and they attempted to tighten fabric, which was a repair 
attempt. The inspection completed by Mrs B has identified issues and its the inspectors 
expert opinion that the faults are manufacturing faults and were therefore present from the 
onset. I think the photographs do show faults. The arrows the inspector has used direct us to 
problems with the trim. Although I accept the pictures of the hinge dont show a great deal, I 
think given the nature of that fault means it would have been difficult to demonstrate in a 
photograph. The trim fault alone gives Mrs B the right of rejection.
Ive also considered what Mrs B has had to say. I agree that the goods havent lasted as 
long as would reasonably have been expected but I dont think I have enough evidence to 
say that should have been 10 years. Ive explained that in these circumstances the relevant 
legislation allows a consumer to reject the goods. But that legislation also allows the 
business to make a deduction of any rebate for any use the consumer has had, so I dont 
think its unreasonable to do that here. It was Mrs Bs decision not to pay for the goods and 
whilst I understand that leaves an amount to pay, Im afraid I dont think it would be fair to tell 
Ikano to waive that. The agreement was set to run until 2024 and Mrs B wont be liable for all 
of it. 
Putting things right
Ive not been provided with information that has led me to change my second provisional 
decision and that now becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and to tell Ikano Bank AB (publ) to: 
End the finance agreement and collect the goods at no cost to Mrs B.
Refund all finance instalments paid, retaining 75% in respect of the use Mrs B has
had from the goods. If a balance remains Ikano should arrange an affordable
repayment plan with Mrs B.
Refund, or waive, any finance instalments paid more than one month after my final
decision on this complaint if the goods havent been collected by then.Refund the £48 Mrs B paid for the inspection report and add 8% simple interest per
year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman