DRN-3731806
The complaint
Mr R complains that PayrNet Limited closed his account and returned £1,822.75 to its 
senders.
What happened
Mr R had an account with one of PayrNets agents. To keep things simple, Ill be referring to 
PayrNet throughout this decision. In June 2021, PayrNet placed the account under review 
and asked Mr R to provide information. Initially it asked him to send proof of his identity and 
address, together with information about the source of the money in the account and what 
Mr R used his account for. Mr R provided some information. 
Then in July PayrNet contacted Mr R and asked him to provide details about a payment of 
£800 into the account and some refunds Mr R had received from an online retailer. Mr R 
explained that the £800 was the proceeds from the sale of a phone, and that the payments 
from the retailer related to goods that hed returned as they were wrong.
Around a week later, PayrNet asked Mr R for details of two refunds from the retailer in 
particular, some other payments into the account, and for further details of the sale of the 
phone. Mr R told PayrNet that the payments into the account came from his sister. He said it 
was very difficult for him to get information requested about the sale of the phone as it was 
sold to a third party. Separately, he also provided details of some payments from his brother.
After it completed its investigation, PayrNet decided to close Mr Rs account and return the 
remaining funds in the account to its senders. It told Mr R it intended to do this in October 
2021. While this was all happening, Mr R complained to PayrNet who referred the complaint 
to us.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought what PayrNet had done was fair. Mr R 
didnt agree. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The crux of Mr Rs complaint is whether PayrNet acted fairly in suspending the account and 
returning funds to its senders. Financial businesses like PayrNet are subject to a number of 
legal and regulatory requirements which mean it may need to review an account at any time. 
While it does this it may need to suspend the account. And where it reviews an account in 
these circumstances, it doesnt need to give Mr R reasons.
Ive also considered the terms and conditions that apply to Mr Rs account. Paragraph 7.6 
states that PayrNet can request information or proof of income at any time regarding the 
source of the funds used to pay into Mr Rs account. It also allows PayrNet to suspend the 
account and use of any card pending the satisfactory resolution of its queries.
Paragraph 21 relates to ending the agreement. It says that PayrNet can terminate the 
agreement at any time  but unless there are exceptional circumstances it should give Mr R 
60 days prior notice. It also states that PayrNet reserves the right to return any funds held in 
the account either back to the senders of the payments or to the account holder.
Ive kept this in mind when looking at Mr Rs complaint.
Based on what Ive seen Im satisfied that PayrNet was acting in line with its legal and 
regulatory obligations  and the applicable terms and conditions  when it reviewed and 
suspended Mr Rs account. So I cant say PayrNet did anything wrong in asking Mr R for 
information about the payments into the account, or in suspending the account while it 
waited for this information. Im also satisfied that PayrNet was entitled to close the account.
Ive next considered the payments into Mr Rs account. 
PayrNet asked Mr R for information about an £800 payment into the account  Mr R says he 
sold a phone to a third party. But  apart from a screenshot confirming the account the bank 
transfer came from  Mr R wasnt able to provide anything further about this sale. I see that 
on 13 July PayrNet asked Mr R if he could provide information showing that the buyer 
received the goods  such as dated messages or sales invoices. But Mr R replied that it is 
very difficult to get the information as it was sold to a third party.
Weve asked Mr R for further information about this sale. He says he doesnt have 
information about the sale as this was all on his old phone. Hes also said that the sale was 
in fact arranged through a friend who has a mobile phone shop, who arranged the sale to the 
third party. Finally, he says the third party has left the UK and is now unable to access online 
banking to confirm whether the funds have been returned.
Thinking about all of this, I cant say it was unfair for PayrNet to return this money to its 
sender. As Ive said, the terms and conditions allowed PayrNet to ask Mr R for information 
about the source of funds paid into his account. PayrNet asked Mr R for information about 
this payment  but he was unable to provide supporting evidence. So I cant say that 
PayrNet acted incorrectly.
Turning to the remaining funds in the account, I see Mr R received three large refunds - 
£1,649.00, £1,090.50, and £599.99  from a major online retailer. PayrNet asked Mr R for 
details of these refunds. 
The refund of £1,649, on 23 April 2021, related to a payment of £1,649 on 5 April. It appears 
Mr R bought and then received a refund for a desktop computer. Mr R says the retailer sent 
him the wrong item.
The refunds of £1,090.50 on 1 June 2021 and £599.99 on 9 June 2021 appear to relate to a 
purchase of £1,690.49 on 12 May 2021. Based on what Ive seen, the £1,090.50 related to 
the purchase of a phone  Mr R says this was a birthday gift for a relative, but he returned 
this because it was too big. The refund of £599.99 related to a computer monitor. Mr R says 
he returned this as it didnt meet his needs.
On 6 June 2021, the same day Mr R received the payment for the phone, a further payment 
 for £1,592.96  was made from the account to another retailer. This payment was 
refunded on 10 June 2021. Mr R says that this payment was unauthorised, and was paid 
back by the provider of the electronic money wallet that was used to make the payment.In light of the above, Ive thought about whether PayrNet acted fairly in returning funds to 
source. I see that in response to PayrNets questions, Mr R provided a screenshot of a chat 
with an advisor. I see this confirmed the refund of the £1,649.00 on 22 April 2021 and 
refunds of the £1090.50 and £599.99 on 28 May and 8 June. PayrNet also asked Mr R for 
details of the source of the funds he used to make these purchases. Mr R said that these 
came from his siblings who he said helped him financially. Hes sent screenshots from the 
senders online banking relating to a payments into his account of £650 and £1,000 on 4 and 
5 April  the day he made the first purchase - which he paid back on 23 April  the day he 
received the refund. Mr R has also provided a screenshot showing a payment into his 
account of £500 on 11 May, the day he made the second purchase, which he repaid on 9 
June after he received the £599.99 refund.
PayrNet wasnt satisfied with the information Mr R provided. And so in October 2021 it 
explained that it would close the account and return the money to its sender  though I note 
it hasnt yet done so.
I can see that PayrNet might have explained in more detail exactly what it needed from 
Mr R. While I can see why PayrNet might have found some of the information Mr R provided 
 such as screenshots of individual bank transfers  unsatisfactory, it doesnt appear to have 
told Mr R this or asked him for more specific information. That said, weve also asked Mr R 
for more details of these transactions, and Im not persuaded this would have changed 
PayrNets decision.
I say this because the information Mr R has provided is inconclusive. When we first asked 
about the purchases from the first retailer, he said he thought the refunds may have taken 
place because the items had been lost in transit. But he then said that hed received the 
goods and returned them because they didnt meet his requirements. Some of the 
screenshots from within the retailers app indicate that the returns process was started, but 
the goods were not received. Others indicate that the goods cannot now be returned as the 
return window has already closed. Further messages suggest the goods may have been 
received at the point Mr R received the refunds. 
More recently, Mr R has told us that he missed the return window for the goods, and so the 
refund had to be processed manually outside the retailers normal returns process. He also 
says the retailer has, since then, closed his account. Mr R says this is because he forgot his 
password and so opened a second account  which, he says, was against the retailers 
terms and conditions. He says this happened in around June or July 2021.
Turning to the last payment, Mr R has said that this was an unauthorised transaction which 
was refunded by the electronic money wallet provider he had an account with. But weve 
asked Mr R for further details about this  and he says he no longer uses the email address 
linked to this wallet account.
Given how Mr R was using the account, I cant say it was wrong for PayrNet to have closed 
it immediately. And given what Ive said about information Mr R has sent us together with his 
inability to provide information about the £800, Im not persuaded that PayrNet would have 
reached a different conclusion about whether to return the outstanding balance if it had 
asked for further information.
With all this in mind, based on all the information Ive seen and all the circumstances of Mr 
Rs complaint, Im not persuaded PayrNets decision to return the remaining funds to source 
was unreasonable.It follows that I dont uphold the complaint and I will not be asking PayrNet to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman