DRN-4181570
The complaint
Mrs T has complained about her car insurer Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited 
(LV) because it has completed work on her car which hasnt resolved damage noted 
following an attempted theft, and it has declined liability for other damage.
What happened
Mrs T was driving her car on 21 January 2022 when it began losing power. She decided to 
leave it by the side of the road. When she returned to it the following day it had been moved. 
There was a strong smell of fuel in the car. LV moved the car to its garage. LV accepted that 
the interior and exterior of the car had been contaminated by fuel and it found that the 
gearbox had failed. Work was done on the car with a view to resolving the interior fuel 
contamination. But LV felt the gearbox issue meant the car had suffered a mechanical 
breakdown which was likely the cause of the car having lost power before Mrs T left it. So LV 
wasnt prepared to offer cover for the mechanical problems with the car. And LV later said 
that it wasnt actually prepared to cover a claim for Mrs T at all because there was no sign of 
forced entry to the car.
LV told Mrs T it had resolved the fuel issue anyway, classing it as a gesture of goodwill, and 
it was returning the car to her. Mrs T was concerned that the contamination issue had not 
been resolved  that it couldnt be resolved, as a friend had their fuel contaminated car 
written-off by their insurer as it presented a safety risk. When the car was returned to her 
Mrs T reported there was still a strong smell of fuel in the car. LV refused to do anything 
more, so she placed the car into storage and complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
Our Investigator felt LV had made a fair decision regarding the mechanical issues with the 
car. But he felt its evidence that it had resolved the fuel issue wasnt persuasive. He felt it 
should valet the car. 
LV initially said it would not agree to a valet  but it would undertake another inspection. But 
it also said it would expect any further work it did do to be subject to the usual claim 
requirements such as a policy excess which it had not taken before, as well as a further 
claim for vandalism being logged to cover this damage. 
Our Investigator told Mrs T that he felt LVs offer was reasonable. Mrs T wasnt happy. She 
felt that being made to have another claim and excess payment now wasnt fair when all that 
had really happened (she feels) is that LV carried out unauthorised work on her car which 
failed. She argued that LV should be responsible for resolving the mechanical issues too.
The complaint was passed to me for consideration. Noting LVs offer to inspect the car, I felt 
this should be done as part of our complaint process, not as the overall recommended 
redress. LV and Mrs T agreed to have the inspection carried out. However, after waiting for a 
time for LV to organise this, LV said it wasnt prepared to complete a further inspection. It felt 
this wouldnt be useful at this time and it provided a note from an engineer who had viewed 
the car in April 2022, which it asked to be taken into consideration. 
Without an agreement to inspect the car, I took the complaint for review. I felt it should be 
upheld in part  but not in respect of the mechanical issues, or to the extent of requiring LV 
to write the car off. So I issued a provisional decision to explain my views on the complaint 
and what I felt LV did need to do to put things right. My provisional findings were:
Mechanical issues
Im satisfied, based on what Ive seen, that its most likely that LVs decision that the 
mechanical issues occurred before Mrs T left the car at the side of the road is fair and 
reasonable. I acknowledge that there is some lack of clarity with the data gathered from the 
cars ECU and keys  in short the data available is corrupted to some extent because the 
system was reset at some point after the car was recovered. Which means that that data 
doesnt show a true reading of when faults were first discovered. And Im mindful the car was 
driven after it was recovered, with it not being clear if it was driven/moved or not by those 
attempting to steal it.
But there are some other key points which I think need to be factored in here. The car was 
checked only a fortnight before the incident, with an odometer reading of 134,302km. And 
there were no gearbox issues on the diagnostic at that time. It isnt clear what the odometer 
reading was when Mrs T left her car. But she reported finding it moved about a mile (1.6km) 
down the road. Given she had left it due to lack of power issues, I think its reasonable to say 
that if thieves, attempting to steal it, did move it (and I know LV has doubts about this), that 
is as far as they would have taken it. And when LV began assessing the car the odometer 
reading was 134,915km. So it had travelled 613km within those two points of time. And only 
1.6km at most attributable to the thieves. It is also clear, as Ive said, that the car was 
suffering a loss of power such that Mrs T decided to leave it at the side of the road  and the 
fault indicators showing at the last check dont seem to be anything that might have caused 
a loss of power. I understand that an issue with a gearbox could cause that. So, on balance, 
taking all this into account alongside the diagnostic data referenced above, I think its most 
likely that the gearbox issue was pre-existing to the attempted theft. As such Im satisfied 
that LVs decline of liability for resolving this damage under the policy is fair and reasonable. 
Fuel Contamination
There is no doubt that the car was contaminated with fuel. Without opting to first complete 
validation enquiries  such as considering whether or not the car had likely been locked 
when it was left  LV completed work on the car with a view to resolving the interior fuel 
contamination. It also did that without opting to take the policy excess sum. LV has later said 
the claim overall cant fairly be accepted under the policy because no forced entry occurred, 
and for it to do any more work, a policy excess would have to be paid. I dont think either is 
fair or reasonable here. Not when LV went ahead with repairs in the way that it did.
LV did, I think log a claim on its own and the industry database when Mrs T notified it of the 
incident. That is to be expected and is perfectly reasonable. But LV cant reasonably log 
another claim for the fuel contamination alone. Not least as there was only one incident. If it 
logged the claim as one of theft but feels it is more accurate to change that to vandalism, 
then I can accept that is fair. In short there should be one claim and it doesnt make much 
difference whether that shows as theft or vandalism. But LV will need to show Mrs T what its 
recorded on the database so she can accurately advise future insurers of her claim history.  
With that all clarified; Ive looked at whether or not there is most likely a fuel contamination 
issue which LV has some outstanding liability for resolving. 
LV, of course, would like me to accept that there was a fuel issue, which it resolved before 
returning the car to Mrs T. Its evidence in support of that seeming to be that reports it 
obtained in April 2022 did not say there was any remaining fuel smell. Its also told Mrs T 
that several people examined the car before it was returned to her, none of whom reported smelling fuel. And, most recently, it presented a statement from one of the authors of the two 
April 2022 reports which states that author, an inspection engineer, now in May 2023, did not 
notice any fuel smell when assessing the car (in April 2022). 
Set against that I see that:
Its repairing garage, in February 2022, said it was worried that attempting to clean the 
fuel contamination would not be successful.
Its in-house engineer assessed the car after it had been valeted, and his report from 
February 2022, according to LVs call handler speaking to Mrs T in May 2022, said he 
could still smell fuel.
Two reports were completed by two different external engineers in April 2022.
The first of the reports noted the reported fuel contamination and recommended repairs 
and some further inspections at a total cost of £2,828.84.
The second report focused on the data available within the cars ECU and keys.
It is the author of the second report who, a year later, has said he did not note any smell 
of fuel in the car. 
LV has confirmed that when the car was returned to Mrs T in May 2022, it did not 
undertake any final, formal checks on the state of the car before it was released.
Within two weeks of Mrs T having received the car back, she contacted LV to advise 
there was still a strong smell of fuel in the car.
Since then LV has had the chance to inspect the car further. But ultimately it has chosen not 
to do so. My view then, based on the evidence that is available, is that its more likely than 
not that the car was returned to Mrs T still smelling of fuel. As such, it is my view, that LV has 
not completed a satisfactory repair. So Ive considered what is required to fix that. 
I know Mrs T wants the car written-off but Im not recommending that. Whilst she believes 
that is what is required, Ive seen no persuasive evidence, such as from an appropriate 
expert, that thats necessary here. 
The first of the two April reports set out recommendations for repair. LV argues that many of 
the things set out there were done by it before the report. But the report doesnt seem to be 
written with a view to recording what had already been done. Rather the author engineer 
seems to have noted fuel contamination and set out costs for resolving the same. There is 
some reference within the report to the need for further inspections in relation to the 
mechanical issues but I dont see anything within the costs themselves that relates to any 
investigations or resolving any mechanical issues. The likely repair cost detailed by the 
engineer is £2,828.84. I think LV should pay this sum to Mrs T in settlement of the claim, 
plus interest* from 27 April 2022, the date of the inspection, until settlement is made.
I appreciate that Mrs T may be worried about taking that settlement, completing the work 
recommended, and that not totally resolving the fuel issue. However, these repairs have 
been recommended by an engineer as a way of resolving the fuel issue. I think its fair and 
reasonable for me to rely on them as equating to fair and reasonable redress for this part of 
Mrs Ts complaint.
Loss of use and compensation
Clearly Mrs T has now been without her car for an extended period of time. However, 
regardless of Mrs Ts view of the safety of the car, with it still smelling of fuel, I think its clear 
that the mechanical issues would prevent it from being used too. And I havent seen 
anything that shows Mrs T has tried to have these fixed only for garages to refuse to work on 
the car. So Im not minded to make any award against LV on account of the fact that Mrs T 
has been without the car for an extended period.I do think though, as Ive said, that LVs position regarding the fuel issue, was unfair and 
unreasonable. And there was a lot of frustration caused to Mrs T by that position. I think LV 
should pay Mrs T £350 compensation. Mrs T may feel this is not enough. But I must bear in 
mind that I have not found LV was wrong about the mechanical issue, or that it should be 
writing the car off as Mrs T would like it to. So I have to temper my compensation award, as 
when making it I cant take into account the upset Mrs T has been caused by those aspects 
of the complaint which I have not upheld.
LV said it agreed with my findings. Mrs T said she felt LV was reasonably liable for the 
mechanical issues as they had likely occurred during the attempted theft. She provided 
further comment about the fuel issue  including that she reported it the same day the car 
was returned to her. Mrs T explained about the costs shes incurred since LV returned her 
car to her when she had to move it to storage. She feels LV treated her unfairly and caused 
her a lot of upset.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mechanical issues
Mrs T said the report shows fault codes and the mileage they occurred at, and the garage 
did not reset the cars data. She said the gearbox fault triggered after she had left the car 
and after a code which shows the boot was forced open, the latter likely being the point of 
entry of the would-be thieves.
I understand Mrs Ts concern. And I note that the data gathered from the car shows that the 
gearbox fault was recorded at 134,912km and the boot at 134,908km. With the car being 
recorded as inspected by LVs engineer at 134,922km. And LVs engineer has explained that 
the records held within the car also show the data was reset 8 miles (12.8km) before his 
inspection. Hes explained that means that the date, time and mileage of when the codes 
were recorded cant be relied upon  essentially the mileage point shown isnt necessarily 
the point when the fault first occurred. Ive seen no expert evidence in challenge of that. 
I remain satisfied by what I said provisionally about the mechanical issues, including that the 
data cant be relied upon to reasonably conclude the gearbox was most likely damaged 
during the incident rather than before it. 
Fuel contamination
Mrs T commented at length on this issue. She mentioned the phone calls again where she 
believes LV sought to cover up the initial finding that the car was still contaminated even 
after cleaning. She said the fire brigade and her breakdown recovery company had told her 
not to drive the car and she knows LV usually writes-off cars contaminated with fuel due to 
the risk they present.
I know how strongly Mrs T feels about this issue. And I do think LV failed to treat her fairly 
and reasonably in this respect. I explained provisionally that I wasnt persuaded by the 
recent evidence from LV, which stated its engineer, in May 2023, didnt recall smelling fuel 
when he inspected the car a year before. 
I noted provisionally that LV did acknowledge in one call that the car still smelled of fuel even 
after cleaning. But I dont think LV tried to cover that up in the second call. I think there was 
some confusion in the second call, that the operative and Mrs T were not talking about the 
same evidence as that reviewed and commented on during the first call.I know Mrs T has said she believes her car should not be driven, that it should be written-off. 
But the only written expert evidence, which specifically focuses on Mrs Ts car, is that of LVs 
engineer, which recommends repairs to resolve the fuel contamination. And it is the costs 
detailed in that report which I am requiring LV to pay to Mrs T, plus interest. I remain of the 
view that is a fair and reasonable resolution in all of the circumstances here.
Loss of use and compensation
Mrs T said she couldnt use the car primarily due to the fuel contamination, and no garage 
would work on the car until that was resolved. So Mrs T has had storage charges for her car 
and hire charges for a replacement car whilst hers could not be used. 
I appreciate the difficult position Mrs T has found herself in. And, as Ive said, LV should 
have handled this better. But I also remain of the view that there were serious mechanical 
issues with Mrs Ts car which LV was not responsible for. And I havent seen anything from a 
garage to say it could not work on the car whilst it remained contaminated. My views about 
Mrs Ts losses have not changed from those stated provisionally.
I know Mrs T feels treated unfairly by LV. And, to an extent, I agree with her that is the case. 
But there are some things which Mrs T has been upset by which I havent found LV did  for 
example that it lied or otherwise acted nefariously during the second of the two keys calls 
where the fuel contamination was discussed in order to cover up what had been admitted 
during the first. For the upset Im satisfied LV did cause Mrs T, I remain of the view that £350 
is fair and reasonable compensation. 
Putting things right
I require LV to:
Ensure only one claim is recorded on its own and any industry database.
Show Mrs T what has been recorded about this claim on the industry database.
Pay Mrs T £2,828.84, plus interest* applied from 27 April 2022 until settlement is made, 
in settlement of the claim and complaint.
Pay Mrs T £350 compensation for upset.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require LV to take off tax from this interest. If 
asked, it must give Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to provide 
the redress set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman