DRN-3026269
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Clydesdale Financial Services (CFS) rejected their claim under 
section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in respect of a timeshare purchase. Mr and 
Mrs T were initially represented by a claims management company (CMC), but it is no 
longer acting on their behalf.
What happened
In June 2014 Mr and Mrs T purchased a timeshare product from a company I will call C and 
paid £5,495. This was funded by a loan from CFS. They signed up in the UK and were 
offered a free holiday which they took. During this holiday they had to attend a presentation 
and they say that at this they were told that what they had bought wasnt suitable for their 
needs. They also say that the free holiday wasnt fully free since they had to pay for flights 
and food.
In December 2018 the CMC made a claim for a refund from CFS. It raised a number of 
reasons why it considered their clients claim succeeded. In summary it said that the product 
has been misrepresented and C had used unfair sales tactics.  It said Mr and Mrs T had 
been told the product would be tailored to their needs.
CFS rejected the claim and said Mr and Mrs T had not made a single booking request, nor 
had they complained to C. It said the representative had supplied the relevant 
documentation and Mr and Mrs T had been given time to consider their purchase. A 
checklist had been prepared and signed by Mr and Mrs T and due diligence had been 
carried out.
The CMC on behalf of Mr and Mrs T brought a complaint to this service. It was considered 
by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He said that there was 
insufficient evidence to show that there had been misrepresentation. He also considered a 
claim under s 140A. However, he didnt consider that had effect as there was no evidence of 
an unfair relationship. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree and said that during the presentation while on the free holiday 
they had been told clearly that what they had already purchased was mis-sold. They had 
tried to book holidays, but with no success. They said their claim was linked to another claim 
against C for a subsequent purchase of membership of a Fractional Owners Club.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
The is no dispute that the chain is intact and so I have to consider if there has been a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation. 
S 56 and 140A
Section 56 of the CCA is also relevant. In broad terms this means that any negotiations 
between Mr and Mrs T and C are deemed to have been conducted by C as an agent for 
FHF. This includes any representations made by C and any other dealings between them.
The statutory agency created by section 56 of the CCA is also relevant in the context of 
section 140A as the pre-contractual acts or omissions of C will be deemed to be the 
responsibility of the lender, and this may be taken into account by a court in deciding 
whether an unfair relationship exists between you and the lender.
The claim has been made in time and so I am able to consider the complaint about CFSs 
rejection of it. I can only consider the matter which was the subject of the complaint i.e. the 
June 2014 purchase. If Mr and Mrs T have a separate complaint about a subsequent 
purchase then they have to take this to CFS before this service can consider it.
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is when a false statement of fact has been made and that false 
statement of fact induced a consumer to purchase the goods or services. In order to find a 
misrepresentation has occurred, there must be proof that a false statement of fact has been 
made and it needs to be decided that that false statement induced the consumer to enter 
into the agreement.
I cannot say what was actually said during the meeting when the purchase was made. I am 
aware that sales representatives will prioritise the positives of the product they are selling, 
but that does not mean that this amounts to a false statement of fact. Much of what is said 
can be put down to the expression of an opinion or a view. 
As our investigator has explained that the sales aids and training used by C give us some 
insight into what they would likely have seen and been told during the verbal part of the sale. 
These aids highlight an imbalance in information, favouring the emotional and tangible 
benefits people would receive if they became a member and limited information on how the 
product functioned and how much it would ultimately cost across the term once maintenance 
fees and associated finance were factored in. 
These aids are carefully structured and so if properly used the likelihood of 
misrepresentation occurring is reduced. I havent seen sufficient information to suggest the 
product wasnt suitable for Mr and Mrs T. I am aware of the discrepancy in evidence in that 
C says no attempts were made to book holiday and Mr and Mrs T explaining that they had 
tried but hadnt been able to book what they wanted. I cannot say what actually happened 
and while I do not doubt their recollection I cannot say that this is sufficient to allow me to 
overlook the documentary material.
In summary there is nothing in the documentation I have seen which was signed by Mr and 
Mrs T that shows any misrepresentation. S 140A Unfair Relationship
When considering if there was an unfair relationship I have taken due note of the sale and 
the process used by C. I do not consider it likely that court would conclude that Cs actions 
as an agent of CFS generated an unfair debtor  creditor relationship.
I appreciate that according to the CMC Mr and Mrs T were pressurised into taking out the 
agreement. I can understand why they have taken that view. My understanding is that these 
sales meetings ran on for many hours and the representatives of C would highlight the 
benefits of the product.
However, this service has learned that if a consumer said they did not want to purchase on 
the day, that representatives staff were instructed to take them back to their accommodation 
and the sales meeting would end. I have no doubt that the techniques used would have 
made saying no more difficult, but this does not mean that it was impossible to decline the 
offer.
In summary I do not have sufficient evidence to show Mr and Mrs T were unreasonably 
pressurised to sign the agreement. 
It is possible that the disclosure of information about the product couldve been clearer. So, 
Ive looked at whether this led to such an imbalance of information between the parties, that 
it gave rise to an unfair relationship.
I believe Mr and Mrs T were aware they were buying a timeshare product with C. The 
paperwork set out the length of the contract term, how annual fees would be calculated, that 
it was subject to availability and should not be viewed as a financial investment.
I believe C supplied brochures that covered this information. So, while the sales meeting 
mayve been overly weighted towards the aspirational lifestyle owning a timeshare could 
provide, I dont think the gap in knowledge between what Mr and Mrs T thought they were 
acquiring and what they  actually got was so significant so as to suggest it could give rise to 
an unfair relationship.
I have also considered the matter of commission in relation to this transaction. My 
understanding that commission would have been paid, but based on the typical rates I have 
seen, I think its unlikely a court would find that the failure to disclose commission in this 
case created an unfair relationship under s.140A.
On balance I am not presided there is sufficient evidence to show that it would be likely a 
court would find there was an unfair relationship as set out in s 140A.
Conclusion
I have noted that recently Mr and Mrs T have bene experiencing some financial issues, but I 
see that the agreement was for 60 months and so this should have been paid off in 2020. I 
appreciate a subsequent agreement may be causing them some difficulties, but I cannot say 
that allows me to uphold this complaint. 
I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs T, but while I have 
every sympathy with their situation I cannot uphold their complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman