DRN-3540826
The complaint
This complaints about an agricultural mortgage Mrs S holds with Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
The essence of the complaint is that Barclays hasnt done enough to support Mrs S since 
external problems and health issues impacted on her ability to meet the repayments. 
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs S and Barclays. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which has been 
shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mrs S being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points, rounding 
the figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont 
mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was 
material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mrs S took the agricultural mortgage out in 2020; it was intended to consolidate existing 
debts, some with Barclays, some that were external. Weve received a separate complaint 
about how the mortgage was set up, and a fellow ombudsman is in the process of reviewing 
that. 
After the mortgage began, Mrs S business experienced various external pressures that 
impacted on its ability to generate income; this left her struggling with the mortgage 
repayments. Barclays agreed a number of three-month capital repayment holidays: periods 
during which Mrs S was only required to pay the monthly interest on the mortgage. However, 
when she asked for another holiday in November 2021, Barclays said no; prior to that, it had 
also refused an application for additional lending Mrs S had made in July 2021, on the 
grounds it was unaffordable. However, it has waived the fees that would normally be 
charged as a result of direct debit payments to the loan causing her business current 
account to go overdrawn.
Mrs S was referred to Barclays financial assistance department and then in due course, to a 
specialist team within that. However, Mrs S has been very frustrated by her experiences of 
dealing with the specialist team. She says shes not been offered any help, and contact is 
extremely difficult. When she complained, Barclays defended its decisions, but accepted it 
should have been clearer in managing Mrs S expectations about what it could do for her. 
Barclays offered Mrs S £200 compensation.
Mrs S brought this complaint to us, alongside the one shed already made about how the 
agricultural mortgage had been set up. The same investigator has looked into both, albeit 
separately from each other. On the case before me here, the investigator thought Barclays 
had acted reasonably for the most part, but agreed that it had unduly raised Mrs S 
expectations about what it could do to help. She agreed that the offer of £200 was fair and 
recommended Mrs S accept it. Mrs S has asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Mrs S has spoken openly and frankly about her and her husbands respective health issues, 
as well as Mrs S difficult trading conditions. I dont reveal the details here, in order not to 
compromise their privacy, but its clear they have been, and continue to be up against it, so 
to speak. 
In this decision, I deal solely with the complaint about how Barclays responded to Mrs S 
requests for help since taking out the mortgage. As I said, her earlier complaint about how it 
was set up is being addressed separately by a fellow ombudsman. Meanwhile, if Mrs S 
wants us to look into her more recent concerns about whats happened with the overdraft on 
her business current account, that can be made as a separate complaint too, but Barclays 
will need to be given an opportunity to address it first before we will look into it.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In asking for a review by an ombudsman, Mrs S poses the question of what Barclays has 
done to help with her business cash flow problems since the mortgage started. The 
dispassionate answer to that is quite a lot. It agreed to several capital repayment holidays 
throughout 2021, and has also waived the charges that would normally accrue on the 
business account when the loan instalments were paid despite there being insufficient funds. 
Its true that Barclays wasnt willing to continue offering capital repayment holidays when it 
wasnt convinced Mrs S situation was improving; but I cant fairly conclude that was an 
unreasonable decision in the wider circumstances. I have to take the same view about its 
decision not to agree to further lending in July 2021, at a time when Mrs S was struggling 
with the debt she already had. Banks are expected to be patient and flexible with borrowers 
in difficulties, and here I think Barclays has been both. But being patient and flexible, and 
treating customers fairly, doesnt simply mean agreeing to every request for help that it 
receives.
Its clear that Mrs S was hoping for more help from Barclays specialist team than it was 
ultimately able to provide; in her eyes, it has been unprofessional and had told her lies it has 
then reneged on. I do understand Mrs S strength of feeling, but taking a step back  as I 
must do  and taking an impartial overview, I agree with our investigator that it was more the 
case that the bank gave Mrs S an unrealistic expectation of what it was able to do. For that 
failing, which Barclays has accepted, I find the offer of £200 compensation to be fair. If no 
offer had been made, I would not have awarded more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Ill leave it to Mrs S to decide if she 
wants to accept the settlement offer Barclays made to her. If she does, she can contact Barclays directly.  My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, 
which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman