DRN-3051487
The complaint
Miss C has complained that Everyday Lending Limited was irresponsible in lending to her.
What happened
In September 2018 Miss C took out a loan with Everyday Lending for £1,200. She said the 
purpose of the loan was to consolidate payday loans. The loan was taken out over 18 
months with an APR of 149.3% and her monthly repayments were £129.25 making the total 
repayable at the end of the term £2,326.50. The loan was repaid in August 2019.
Miss C complained that Everyday Lending hadnt properly checked she could afford the 
loan.
Everyday Lending looked into her complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the checks had been 
properly carried out and it thought the loan was sustainable. Miss C referred her complaint to 
us. 
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Cs complaint and thought Everyday Lending shouldnt have 
lent the loan. As Everyday Lending disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss Cs complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Everyday Lending complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss C would be able to repay loan in a sustainable way?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss C wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Everyday Lending act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Cs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Everyday Lending had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Miss C undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss C. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Cs complaint.
With regard to the first question Everyday Lending gathered some information from Miss C 
about her income and expenditure before it made the loan. It received a copy of her payslip 
and one months bank statements. It also carried out a credit check. 
As part of its underwriting, Everyday Lending said it used 35% of a customers net income to 
calculate an approximate personal expenditure. On this basis Miss Cs general living 
expenses were calculated as £512. She was also paying £440 to her partner in respect of 
rent and household bills. Taking her average monthly salary of £1,223 Everyday Lending 
thought Miss C would have a monthly disposable income of £142 after making the new loan 
repayment of £129.25. It believed the checks completed were reasonable and proportionate 
and that the loan was sustainable over the term for Miss C.
I can see from Miss Cs bank statement that in the month before she took out the loan with 
Everyday Lending shed made cash withdrawals of £645. Around the same time shed 
applied for two new credit cards. She had an overdraft of £354.26. Shed also received 
transfers in from payday lenders of £250 and £480 in one month. This indicates to me that 
Miss Cs financial situation was probably deteriorating at this stage.
I think Everyday Lending should have been concerned about Miss Cs recent need for 
credit. It seems to have accepted at face value that she would have a monthly disposable 
income of £142 when the pattern of spending on her bank statements showed that she was having difficulty managing her money. Her bank account had gone into overdraft just three 
days after her salary was paid in.
I can also see on the bank statement that Miss C was making repayments to a credit card 
company and she had to pay interest on her overdraft neither of which Everyday Lending 
had taken into account.
Overall, I dont think Everyday Lending properly scrutinised the information available to it to 
ensure that Miss C would have enough funds to be able to make the loan repayments over 
18 months. I dont think Everyday Lending focussed on Miss C as a borrower and her 
specific circumstances. In my opinion it ought reasonably to have been aware that Miss C 
would be unlikely to be able to repay the loan sustainably over the loan term. That means it 
should reasonably have concluded that it wasnt appropriate to lend to Miss C.
Ive also thought about whether Everyday Lending acted unfairly in some other way and I 
havent seen any evidence that it did.
Putting things right
To put things right Everyday Lending should:
refund all interest and charges Miss C paid on the loan;
pay interest* of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement; and
remove any negative information about the loan from Miss Cs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to take off tax from this interest. Everyday 
Lending must give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Miss Cs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right for Miss C as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman