DRN-3070934
The complaint
Mr G complains about the way American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex) 
collects direct debit payments.
 
What happened
Mr G has an Amex card and paid monthly by direct debit. Earlier this year, Mr G complained 
about the way Amex processes direct debit payments. Mr G said it was unfair for Amex to 
collect payments around 10 days before the due date. Mr G also complained that he couldnt 
raise a complaint by email. 
Amex issued a final response and said it collects direct debit payments around 10 days 
before the due date each month to try and resolve any problems before they impact a 
customers credit file. Amex also said Mr G had other options to make his monthly payment. 
Mr G referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They said 
the Financial Ombudsman Service cant tell a business to change the way it operates. The 
investigator also thought Amex had provided a reasonable explanation for why it collects 
direct debit payments earlier than the due date. The investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs 
complaint. Mr G asked to appeal and said Amex was exploiting its customers by collecting 
direct debit payments unnecessarily early.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amex and our investigator have both set out the different ways customers can make 
payments to their credit cards. Amongst other methods, these include manual bank 
transfers, over the phone and using an app. So, whilst I can see Mr G feels the way Amex 
collects direct debit payments is unfair, there are other options available. I understand the 
other options rely on Mr Gs involvement to make a payment but I dont agree theyre 
unreasonably inconvenient.
Mr G has told us he feels Amex is exploiting customers by collecting payments early. But 
Amex says it processes direct debits in this way so that any problems with collection can be 
identified and potentially resolved before the due date. Amex says its approach is designed 
to minimise the impact of problems with a payment on a customers credit file. I think thats a 
reasonable explanation.
The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt the regulator and cant tell Amex how to operate. 
Amex is free decide how it collects and processes payments. I know Mr G feels Amexs 
approach is exploitative, but I havent found hes been unfairly impacted or lost out. Im sorry 
to disappoint Mr G, but I dont agree Amexs approach is unfair.
Mr G has also complained about difficulties raising his concerns with Amex and that he 
wasnt able to do so by email. Amex says that whilst theres no facility to complaint by email, 
customers can do so over the phone or in writing. I can see that Amex also says customers 
can raise complaints via the online Resolver service. There are a range of options available 
for Amex customers wishing to complain. Complaint handling in itself isnt something this 
service can consider complaints about in its own right. And I havent seen anything that 
indicates Mr G was unable to raise his concerns about direct debits with Amex or that 
unreasonable barriers were placed in his way. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G as I can see how strongly he feels in this matter. But as Im 
satisfied Amex dealt with his complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uhpold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman