DRN-1929802
The complaint
Mr G says he hasnt received fair compensation from The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) 
for the unsuitable advice he received to transfer from his occupational pension scheme 
(OPS) benefits into a Section 32 pension policy.
What happened
In 1990 Mr G received advice from RBS (trading as NatWest) to transfer his OPS benefits 
into a Section 32 personal pension policy with Norwich Union.
In October 1994, the then regulator, the Securities and Investment Board (SIB), established 
an industry-wide review of particular pension business carried out by authorised firms 
between 29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994. It was generally known as the "Pensions Review". 
Consumers were invited to have a review  the intention being to avoid the need for them to 
bring complaints later about what had happened.
RBS wrote to Mr G and offered him a review of his pension transfer. He agreed and the 
exercise took place 1997. It wrote to him in July of that year with the results of the review 
which compared the benefits of his OPS with those projected to be delivered by his personal 
pension plan. The letter set out the analysis it had undertaken and concluded in the following 
terms:
Having reviewed your Section 32 Bond and compared the value of it against the value of 
the projected benefits of [your OPS], based on industry assumptions specified by the 
Personal Investment Authority, we believe that it is unlikely that your private arrangement
has sufficient potential to match the pension promised by your former employer.
To put matters right RBS proposed:
The preferred method of redress is to seek re-instatement into your ex-employers scheme; 
however, we are informed by the Trustees that this option is not available to us. In 
accordance with PIA guidelines, the most suitable alternative method of redress is to place 
additional funds into your current policy.
The calculations that we have carried out in accordance with our regulators instructions 
have indicated that the current difference in capital value is £9309.24. We propose to add 
[this]amountto your existing plan to increase its value to the current worth of the benefits
provided by [your former OPS]. 
Mr G signed a form on 7 July 1997 accepting RBSs offer in full and final settlement of the 
matter. The redress was added to his personal pension funds.
In July 2019 Mr Gs representative complained to RBS on his behalf. It said the original 
advice to transfer had been unsuitable and that the redress it had subsequently provided 
had been inadequate. 
FR also said this Service would have to consider the merits of RBSs advice to Mr G to 
transfer out of his OPS, even though it had already been subject to the Pensions Review. 
And that RBS should use the latest redress guidelines issued by Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) to make sure he was put back into the position hed have been in had he not 
transferred his pension in 1990.
RBSs response to the complaint was that the original advice for Mr G to transfer his OPS 
had already been reviewed and the matter settled through the Pension Review carried out in 
1997. 
FR referred Mr Gs complaint to this Service. The Investigator didnt uphold his complaint. It 
disagreed with her findings and made three specific arguments, that:
- The FCA's 2017 FG17/9 Guidance stipulated that it was that guidance which should 
be used "to determine appropriate redress" where a firm "did not review the relevant 
pension transaction in accordance with the regulatory standards or requirements 
applicable for the review of the transaction at the time". 
- The applicable regulatory standards were set out in SIBs "Pension Transfers and 
Opt Outs - Review of Past Business Part II: Specification of Standards and 
Procedures". FR said RBS didnt deal properly with the charges associated with Mr 
Gs personal pension plan in the review calculations  it said policy and fund 
management charges had been assumed as zero and this had a significant impact 
on the redress paid.
- There was no evidence that RBS had checked, as it was required to, whether 
reinstatement into Mr Gs OPS was possible.
So, Mr Gs complaints has been passed to me to review and to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wheres theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities,
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate;
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why, focussing on the three main arguments 
made by FR in its response to the Investigators view.
The Pension Review
The Pension Review was designed to be a one-off exercise and was implemented to rectify 
widespread mis-selling and to put customers back as far as reasonably possible into the 
position they wouldve been in had they not received inappropriate advice.The methodology for putting things right was set by the regulator of the time. The financial 
business firstly had to determine whether it was possible for the customer to be reinstated 
into their previous defined benefit scheme. If that wasnt possible, the financial business 
needed to assess the financial loss and pay a lump sum pension contribution.
Several assumptions, based on what the regulator thought were fair at the time, were used 
in the redress calculations  including the expected future growth rate of the pension funds 
to produce the required benefits at retirement. 
We know now that often the assumed growth rates used in the review calculations didnt 
materialise. This, combined with annuity rates falling, had an impact on the benefits provided 
by personal pensions. So, although it was thought the compensation paid following the 
Pension Review plus the existing value of a pension would be high enough to match the 
OPS benefits at retirement, this hasnt been the case for many consumers.
However, this Service wouldnt ask a firm to re-calculate a consumers loss because the 
compensation previously paid didnt actually make up for what their former pensions 
wouldve been worth now. That would effectively mean re-running the Pension Review. So, 
while FR might be correct the redress Mr G accepted hasnt put him in the same position he 
would have been in but for the transfer of his pension, that doesnt mean I would require 
reassessment of the compensation hes received.
I recognise that many people like Mr G will feel this is unfair. But market conditions that 
werent foreseen when the Pension Review was being undertaken isnt a reason for this 
Service to require settlements made under that process to be undone and recalculations 
made. 
The Review was designed to provide finality to both parties and to draw a line under the 
matter  businesses could provide redress for mis-selling knowing that they wouldnt be 
liable for future compensation; and consumers could be re-assured that the mis-selling had 
been recognised and put right at that point in time using what were considered to be 
reasonable assumptions without the need to revisit the matter many years later.
The new FCA guidance for reviewing pension transfers
In 2017 the FCA issued new guidance  known as FG17/9. This was designed for 
complaints upheld about occupational pension scheme transfers received after 3 August 
2016 or for complaints received before this date that hadnt been dealt with in full and final 
settlement already.
It was initially envisaged that any case that fell within the Pension Review period would be 
excluded from the updated guidance. But after the consultation period, FG17/9 said some 
cases could be included  where the financial business didnt review the relevant pension 
transaction in accordance with the regulatory standards at the time and/or where the 
circumstances of the case werent addressed by those standards.
Mr Gs representative says that the review carried out by RBS in 1997 wasnt done correctly 
because assumptions about the charges on his personal pension werent correct. And 
because theres no evidence to show it investigated whether reinstatement into his original 
pension was possible. It says this means RBSs review was invalid and so the redress due 
to Mr G should be recalculated using the FG17/9 guidelines.
RBSs position was that it had already settled the matter in respect of the unsuitable advice 
as part of the Pension Review, which it had carried out according to the requirements of the 
regulators at the time.I think its helpful at this point to set out this Services usual approach when errors have been 
found in Pension Review calculations. For example, where an incorrect date of birth, sex, 
marital status, pension transfer value has been used. In these circumstances I would 
normally direct the business involved to correct that error (but as at the date of the review, 
not now). 
This is because the Pension Review bulletin five said that where an offer was made and 
accepted in good faith and it was later found the calculation contained an error, the re-
calculation should be done using the same effective date as the original calculation.
RBSs treatment of charges on Mr Gs personal pension in its review calculations
FR said RBS didnt deal properly with the charges associated with Mr Gs personal pension 
plan in the review calculations  it said policy and fund management charges had been 
assumed as zero and that this had a significant impact on the redress paid.
RBS, both in its final response to Mr G and subsequently through this Service, has 
confirmed that the actuary it commissioned to carry out the calculations for the review of his 
pension in 1997 dealt with the charges on his personal pension according to the regulatory 
requirements.
In responding to this Service, it said:
Please find attached correspondence from Norwich Union dated 1 October 1997  dated 
prior to the second calculation being completed (November 1997). The letter confirms the 
following: 
Our Section 32 is a conventional contract and has an allowance for future charges in the 
fund value quoted. Norwich Unions Section 32 policy is a conventional contract and has no 
specific charges that we will take out. Norwich Union makes an allowance for future charges 
in the fund value quoted due to the difficulty in expressing explicit charges for this type of 
contract. The fund values are calculated along these lines taking into account guidance 
issued by the Securities and Investment Board, Personal Investment Authority and additional 
guidance issued by the Institute of Actuaries.
The second calculation (November 1997, page 11) evidences that the fund value of 
£51,779.98 was reduced by taking into account a fund management charge of £232.44 and 
an allowance for annuity expenses of £1,982.60  reducing the total value of the personal 
pension plan to £49,564.95. The reduction of the fund value will increase the loss noted. As 
Norwich Union have already reduced the Section 32s value to reflect future charges, there 
was therefore no requirement for an additional adjustmentThis confirmed a loss of 
£3,243.29.
To clarify the loss figures quoted by RBS here and for context, it noted there had been an 
error in its initial review calculations in 1997 which was in favour of Mr G. RBS told us:
As confirmed in our submission, the calculation completed in June 1997 has been 
completed on the same basis, with a fund value charge of £345.62 and an allowance for 
annuity expenses of £1,510.79. This recorded a loss of £9,309.24  which the bank 
honoured, despite the original calculation incorrectly assuming additional AVC payments 
needed to be deducted from the original S32 valuation and the loss was, in fact, only 
£3,243.29.This Service isnt a checking service, we do not employ actuaries to check Pension Review 
calculations. However, Ive considered the information we do have  and endeavoured to 
understand what RBS and its actuaries did at the time and why. And Ive then compared that 
with the relevant guidelines. Having done so, the calculation appears in line with the relevant 
guidelines set out under the Pension Review. Ive not identified anything that was obviously 
wrong. Neither has FR evidenced any such problem. So, I dont think it would be reasonable 
for me to require RBS to look at this matter again.
Reinstatement to Mr Gs original OPS
FR has said that theres no evidence RBS had checked, as it was required to, whether 
reinstatement into Mr Gs OPS was possible. I dont think thats strictly the case. In its letter 
to Mr G in July 1997, where it set out the results of the review, when it turned how it would 
try to put things right it said:
The preferred method of redress is to seek re-instatement into your ex-employers scheme; 
however, we are informed by the Trustees that this option is not available to us
I think this contemporaneous testimony suggests RBS did make the enquiries with his 
former pension scheme to explore whether reinstatement was possible. And given that the 
transfer took place in 1990 and the review happened in 1997, I dont find it surprising that 
this option wasnt available. So, I think its more likely than not RBS did what it was required 
to do. 
In summary
The Pension Review was a one-off exercise and Mr G agreed a full and final settlement in 
1997 in respect of the unsuitable advice hed received. While the passage of time might 
suggest the compensation he agreed to doesnt match his actual loss, I havent seen 
anything which makes me think The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc didnt act fairly or 
reasonably in conducting the review and settling matters in accordance with its regulatory 
obligations at that time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman