DRN-1888375
The complaint
K, a limited company, is unhappy that Covea Insurance plc declined a claim made under its 
business protection insurance policy.
What happened
K had the benefit of a business protection insurance policy underwritten by Covea, which 
included public liability insurance.  In August 2019 a customer visited the hair salon operated 
by K, for a colour treatment and haircut. That customer subsequently threatened legal action 
against K claiming that the colour treatment she received had been left on for too long and it 
had damaged her hair.
K sought to claim cover under the public liability section of the policy, but this was declined. 
Unhappy, K brought a complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold that complaint. 
As K disagrees, this complaint has now been passed to me to look at everything afresh and 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. Ill explain why.
Covea has an obligation to handle complaints promptly and fairly, and it mustnt 
unreasonably decline a claim.
The policy K had the benefit of can provide public liability (covering legal liabilities) in the 
event of injury to any person other than an employee if such injury arises out of and in the 
course of their employment by K. But this is subject to the policys other terms and 
conditions. 
The schedule of insurance confirms that certain endorsements were added to that section of 
the policy including a treatment risks exclusion. That exclusion says theres no cover for 
any injury arising out of or in connection with any treatment used, practised or performed by 
 or on behalf of K (other than when performing first aid). 
In the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that Covea hasnt unfairly or 
unreasonably relied on this exclusion when declining Ks claim.
Ive read the legal correspondence sent to K on behalf of the customer setting out the basis 
of her claim against K, including the county court claim form. The customer is alleging 
negligence and seeking damages from K as a result of the harm done to her hair and scalp; 
she says as a result of the colour treatment she had at Ks salon being left on for too long. 
Im therefore persuaded that Covea has fairly concluded that the legal action brought against 
K arises out of a treatment carried out at Ks salon by a member of its staff, and so not 
covered under the policy.My final decision
I dont uphold Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman