DRN-1512636
Complaint
Mrs G says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly provided 
unaffordable loans to her.                           
Background
This complaint is about twenty-six high-cost short term credit instalment loans that Sunny 
provided to Mrs G between March 2015 and May 2019. Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Gs 
complaint and thought she shouldnt have been provided with loans 6 to 26. Sunny didnt 
agree with our adjudicators assessment. So the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs G could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mrs G, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Mrs G was unlikely to have been able to make her payments in a 
sustainable manner by the time it provided loan 6. I say this because by this stage Mrs G exhibited a borrowing pattern of taking out further 
loans shortly after, and sometimes before, having repaid previous ones. Indeed loan 6 was 
provided while loan 5 was still outstanding. Sunny continued lending to Mrs G even when 
this pattern was repeated and in circumstances where it ought reasonably to have realised 
that any further loans were more likely than not unsustainable for her. 
Mrs G had to pay interest and charges on loans that she shouldnt have been provided with. 
So I think that she lost out because of what Sunny did wrong and it should put things right. 
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mrs G paid on loans 6 to 25;
 
remove all interest and charges applied to loan 26 from the outset. Any payments 
that Mrs G made, either to Sunny or any third-party debt purchaser, should then be 
deducted from the new starting balance. If the payments Mrs G has made are more 
than the £300 she was initially lent then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and refunded to her. If, after all adjustments have been made, an outstanding 
balance remains on loan 26, Sunny can deduct this from what it now needs to pay as 
long as it owns any balance at the time of settlement;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest, charges and 
overpayments from the date they were paid to the date of settlement;
 
the number of loans provided means that any information recorded is adverse. So all 
reference to loans 6 to 26 should be removed from Mrs Gs credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mrs Gs complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Mrs G compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman