DRN-3072944
The complaint
Miss S complains that Next Retail Limited defaulted her credit account.
What happened
Miss S had a store card with Next. In August 2019 she received a default notice, and her 
account was defaulted in September. She says that she wrote to Next in August and phoned 
Next in September, to try to avoid a default, but Nexts call handler had told her not to make 
any more payments, and to wait until she heard from a debt collection agency. This is in 
dispute, as Next has no record of her contacting it until October. By then it was too late, as 
the default had already been registered. In July 2020, Miss S brought this complaint to our 
service. She wanted the default to be removed from her credit file.
Miss S says that the October phone call was made to a debt collection agency, and the 
earlier call was directly to Next, so that is why the earlier call does not appear on the 
document provided by the collection agency. But Next says that the debt is not with a third 
party, but with its in-house debt team (which trades under the name Brecon).
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said that Next had sent Miss S several 
statements and arrears letters, stating that she had been missing her minimum payments, 
before sending the default notice, and there was no evidence that Miss S had replied to any 
of them. She listened to the recording of the October call, and concluded that Miss S had 
never mentioned having made an earlier call or being told to stop making payments. By 
then, the account had been defaulted and so Next had a duty to report this on Miss Ss credit 
file.
Miss S did not accept that opinion. She insisted that she recalled mentioning the earlier call 
during the October call. She asked for an ombudsman to review her case.
I would like to take this opportunity to apologise to both parties for how long it has taken for 
this complaint to be assigned to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
All of Miss Ss statements from March 2019 onwards show that her account was in arrears. 
Two arrears letters were sent to her in June, which asked her to pay, and explained that the 
arrears were being reported to her credit file. Two more letters were sent in July and August, 
which asked her to fill in a form (enclosed with the letters) about her income and 
expenditure. The August letter also warned her that if she did not pay, then her account 
would be defaulted, and the default would be reported to her credit file. Two weeks later, 
near the end of August, Next sent her the default notice, which gave her four weeks to pay 
£266.50 or else her account would be defaulted. The account was defaulted after the 
deadline expired. So I think Next gave Miss S plenty of notice of what it intended to do.
Against that background, I find it extremely unlikely that any of Nexts call handlers would 
have advised Miss S not to pay anything until she heard from Brecon. I am reinforced in that 
opinion by the fact that Next has no record of any phone call or other communication from 
her prior to the October phone call. As Ive said, Brecon is not a third party but a department 
within Next, so they do not have separate contact records. Ive seen Next / Brecons contact 
notes, and there is no entry for any phone call in August or September, or in any earlier 
month in 2019.
I have listened to the October call recording. She explained that she had been made 
redundant, but was about to start a new position, and in the meantime she asked to pay £50 
a month. That repayment plan was agreed to. Miss S asked if a default had already been 
registered, and the call handler confirmed that it had, in September, and mentioned that the 
default notice had been sent out in August. Miss S asked if there was any way she could 
avoid that, and the call handler told her she could only have avoided a default if she had paid 
the default balance before the deadline, or if she had called to arrange a payment plan prior 
to the default notice being sent. Miss S said she recalled having made a payment during that 
period, and Next confirmed that she had paid £100 during the third month of arrears, but it 
had not been enough, since she had been in arrears by over £300. 
At that point, Miss S said she understood. I would have expected her to have said that she 
had called Next before, if she really had done so. But she did not say that, either then or at 
any other time during the call. I think that is because there had been no earlier call.
By the time Miss S brought this complaint to us, it was nine months later, so I think that 
would explain why she now recalls an earlier phone call which in fact did not happen.
Miss S went on to mention that she had had two deaths in the family. She asked if there was 
nothing she could do about the default, and the call handler said unfortunately not, and told 
her that they had to report to the credit reference agencies what had happened. She added 
that any further payments Miss S might make would also be reported to her credit file, and 
that this would help her. She explained the difference between full and partial settlement, 
and how these are viewed by lenders. The call ended, without Miss S having referred to an 
earlier call or to anyone at Next having told her not to make any more payments.
For all of the above reasons, I am satisfied that the default has been reported correctly.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman