DRN-1550156
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc told him to change his address details online when 
he asked to do this in a branch.
What happened
Mr A visited a branch to withdraw money and wanted to change his address details. He was 
told that he should do this using online banking. And he is unhappy that HSBC only agreed 
to make the change when he told it of his need for reasonable adjustments. He wants £100 
in compensation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr A had been treated in 
the way all customers would have at first. When he told a member of staff about his specific 
issues she helped him in branch.
Mr A didnt agree and thought wed taken the side of HSBC. He thought branch staff didnt 
want to do any work. And he was unhappy to have to explain his issues and thought that 
there should be notes held by HSBC already about this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC says it is encouraging customers to use online services. And that it wouldnt have 
been right to make any assumptions about what would be appropriate for Mr A. There is no 
recording of his discussion with the member of staff so I cant know exactly what was said. 
But its clear that when she became aware of the issues for Mr A she changed his address in 
the branch. I know he also says he felt pressured when she asked him why he wanted the 
complaints teams phone number. But HSBC says she was trying to see if there was 
something she could resolve or to help him raise a complaint.
I understand Mr As frustrations about what happened. Im considering both sides here and I 
think that HSBC did act reasonably. So I know Im going to disappoint Mr A when I say that I 
dont find theres a basis for me to ask it to compensate him.
 
 
 
 
 My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman