DRN-4429448
The complaint
Miss R complains that Unum Ltd has turned down an incapacity claim she made on her  
employers group income protection insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties. So I havent set it out in  
detail here. Instead, Ive set out a summary of what I think are the key events.
Miss R is insured under her employers group income protection policy. The policy provided  
cover in the event that Miss R was unable to work in her insured occupation, as a result of 
illness or injury. The deferred period was 28 weeks.
In October 2022, Miss R was signed-off from work, after being diagnosed with mixed 
depressive and anxiety disorder. As Miss R remained medically unfit for work, her employer 
subsequently made an incapacity claim on her behalf.
Unum requested medical evidence to allow it to assess the claim. It calculated that Miss Rs 
deferred period would end in April 2023 and so it determined that Miss R needed to show 
shed been incapacitated due to an illness for the whole of the deferred period. Having 
considered the medical evidence, it didnt think there was enough to show that Miss R had 
met the policy definition of incapacity throughout the entire deferred period and it turned 
down her claim.
Miss R was very unhappy with Unums decision and so she asked us to look into her 
complaint. She was also concerned that Unum had discriminated against her and had 
breached its legal obligations under the Equality Act 2010.
 
Our investigator didnt think Miss Rs complaint should be upheld. Based on the evidence 
shed seen; she didnt think it had been unfair for Unum to conclude that Miss R hadnt 
shown she met the policy definition of incapacity throughout the deferred period. Nor did she 
think there was evidence that Unum had discriminated against Miss R.
Miss R disagreed and Ive summarised her responses to our investigator. She didnt think 
either Unum or the investigator had taken the available medical evidence into account. She 
found references to her being able to undertake some activities, such as yoga or shopping, 
to be insulting. She was concerned that if her complaint wasnt upheld, shed have no 
access to any income and she was worried about the impact this might have on her 
recovery. She felt that Unum was acting with a poor understanding of mental health 
conditions. She didnt think the lack of a referral to secondary care should be detrimental to 
the outcome of her claim. She considered her anxiety and depression scores hadnt been 
taken into account. She raised concerns about Unums complaint process. And she referred 
to articles regarding the welfare state.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Miss R and I know how upsetting my  
findings will be to her, I dont think it was unfair for Unum to turn down her claim. Ill explain 
why.
First, Id like to reassure Miss R that while Ive summarised the background to her complaint  
and her detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all thats been said and sent.  
Im very sorry to hear about the circumstances that led to Miss R needing to make a claim  
and I dont doubt what a worrying and upsetting time this has been for her. 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And  
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So, Ive considered, amongst other things,  
the terms of this policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether Unum handled  
Miss Rs claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis of Miss 
Rs employers contract with Unum. Miss Rs employer made a claim on her behalf for 
incapacity benefit, given she wasnt fit for work. So I think it was reasonable and appropriate 
for Unum to consider whether Miss Rs claim met the policy definition of incapacity. This 
says:
A member is incapacitated if we are satisfied they are:
Unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial 
duties of the insured occupation and are
Not performing any occupation.
This means that in order for Unum to pay Miss R incapacity benefit, it must be satisfied that 
she had an illness or injury which prevented her from carrying out the material and 
substantial duties of her insured occupation. 
The policy says that Unum will begin to pay incapacity benefit after the end of the deferred 
period. This means that in order for benefit to be paid, Miss R needed to have been 
incapacitated in line with the policy terms for the entire deferred period and afterwards. 
Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim 
on their policy. This means it was Miss Rs responsibility to provide Unum with enough 
medical evidence to demonstrate that an illness had led to her being unable to carry out the 
duties of her insured occupation for the full 28-week deferred period between October 2022 
and April 2023.
Unum assessed the evidence Miss R provided in support of her claim, including seeking the 
opinion of its clinical staff. It felt her absence had begun due to personal stressors, including 
workplace and family issues. And it noted that Miss R hadnt been referred to secondary 
care and neither had she provided any documented restrictions on her function. While it 
sympathised with Miss Rs position, it concluded that she wasnt suffering from a functionally 
impairing illness which prevented her from carrying out her role. So Ive next looked at the 
available medical evidence to decide whether I think this was a fair conclusion for Unum to 
draw.Ive first considered the fit notes issued by Miss Rs GP since October 2022 and Miss Rs GP 
records. Each note provides a diagnosis of: mixed anxiety and depressive disorder. In early 
October 2022, Miss Rs GP recorded the following in Miss Rs notes:
Increasing pressure at work some issues in family  changed dynamic refer to MIND.
The GP also noted that Miss R had a history of depression over the years and referred to: 
work stress and family issues.
Miss R was referred for talking therapies and she was prescribed anti-depressant 
medication, which she began to take in late 2022. 
In January 2023, Miss Rs GP noted that Miss Rs job had been affecting her; she felt 
pressure within the role; she felt quite burnt out from job  and she had been talking to 
employment advisor and different options.
Subsequently, in March 2023, in view of Miss Rs severe low mood and moderate anxiety 
scores (taken from testing), she was referred for CBT. Additionally, she was referred for 
investigations into potential Chronic Fatigue Syndrome.
During October 2022, Miss R had been referred to Occupational Health (OH) by her 
employer. Unum was provided with copies of OH reports dated October 2022 and January 
2023, so Ive carefully considered the OH Advisors key conclusions which were set out in 
both reports.
In October 2022, the OH Advisor stated:
(Miss R) thinks that the cause for current mental health issues are ongoing; involving family 
issues as well as workplace and environmental factors. She explained that the world at large 
seems quite negative at the moment and she has also been feeling increasing pressure 
within work
She feels that the workplace goalposts keep changing in terms of what they (the employees) 
have been asked to work on and what they have been asked to do. She feels the workplace 
pressures are being portrayed as quite serious (she explained this in terms of 'life or death'). 
She states that she has struggled with the changes and the adaptations in the workplace in 
the last couple of years. She reports that she enjoyed virtual working and feels she was able 
to adapt but was then expected to return to a hybrid working format. She reports that the 
(work) environment can also feel very negative which does not help her mood. She feels that 
within the company itself, there has been a lot of pressures and she explained that she feels 
worn down mentally over the last year.
Ms R reports that one of the reasons for the deterioration in her mental health has been due 
to work related factors.
The OH Advisor concluded that Miss R wasnt fit to work in October 2022, but that they 
anticipated Miss R would be fit to return to work in four to eight weeks.
In January 2023, the OH Advisor stated:
I undertook another mental health questionnaire with (Miss R) during consultation. Her 
depression and anxiety scores were both slightly worse than during our previous 
consultation in October 2022. In view of this and her emotional lability and apparent fragility, 
which was observed during consultation, it is my opinion that she is not fit to return to work.
 Is the ill health work related?In my opinion, the ill health is largely related to personal issues, although she did mention 
some work related factors in the previous consultation (and these are laid out in the previous 
report).
Following Unums rejection of Miss Rs claim, in June 2023, her GP sent Unum a letter in 
support of her position. The GP said:
This is a letter of support for the above patient who has been struggling with symptoms of 
anxiety and depression. She is engaging with talking therapy services and is receiving 
treatment with medication prescribed by myself.
She is taking all the necessary steps in order to try and recover from her difficulties and 
return to work. I do hope this can be taken into consideration and that she is offered all the 
support that is available to her.
Ive thought very carefully about all of the evidence thats been provided and which was 
available to Unum when it made its final decision on Miss Rs complaint. Its important I 
make it clear that Im not a medical expert. In reaching a decision, I must consider the 
evidence provided by both medical professionals and other experts to decide what evidence 
I find most persuasive. It isnt my role to interpret medical evidence to reach a clinical finding 
 or to substitute expert medical opinion with my own.
Its clear that Miss R was suffering from symptoms which can be indicative of a 
significant mental health condition. And I appreciate that both her GP and OH concluded that 
Miss R was medically unfit for work.
But, I have to bear in mind the contemporaneous medical evidence which was available to 
Unum when it assessed the claim and when it issued its final response to Miss Rs 
complaint. During the early months of the claim, both the GP and OH advisor listed the 
personal stressors Miss R was experiencing as the cause of her symptoms. I appreciate 
Miss R was prescribed medication for her symptoms and referred for talking therapies. But I 
havent seen persuasive evidence that she was referred to secondary care  such as a 
psychologist or psychiatrist - for treatment during the deferred period. And I dont think the 
GPs fit notes or medical records indicate how Miss R was prevented, by an illness, from 
carrying out the material and substantial duties of her insured role. Ive carefully considered 
the GPs letter of June 2023, but I dont think it explains why Miss Rs symptoms do - or 
indeed would - functionally impair her from performing the duties of her own occupation.
 
As such, taking into account the totality of the medical and other evidence available to Unum 
when it assessed this claim, I think it was reasonable for Unum to conclude that the 
evidence showed that during the deferred period, Miss R was suffering from an 
understandable reaction to a number of personal stressors. And that the main reason for 
Miss Rs absence during the deferred period was likely a reaction to the stress she was 
experiencing as opposed to a functionally impairing mental health condition. 
On this basis then, I dont think it was unfair for Unum to conclude that Miss Rs absence 
wasnt due to an incapacity in line with the policy definition. Instead, I think it fairly concluded 
that Miss Rs absence was more likely due to a reaction to her circumstances. Id add that 
Im satisfied Unum handled Miss Rs claim and complaint in line with the regulators rules.
Id like to reassure Miss R that Im not suggesting that she was fit for work. I appreciate she 
was medically signed-off. And I understand shes been through a very difficult time. But I 
need to decide whether I think shes shown she met the policy definition of incapacity for the 
whole of the 28-week deferred period. As Ive explained, I dont think she has. Miss R feels that Unum may have discriminated against her or breached its legal obligations 
under the Equality Act 2010, given the problems shes experienced. I can understand why 
Miss R feels this way, but having looked at all the evidence, I havent seen any evidence that 
Unum discriminated against Miss R because of her illness. Its clear Unum did make some 
errors in its communications with Miss R, such as using the wrong name. And its clear she 
found Unums tone upsetting at points. I dont doubt that Miss R was upset by Unums 
mistakes, but I think these were unfortunate errors rather than evidence of discrimination.
I appreciate the OH Advisor stated that they felt Miss R was likely to be covered by the 
disability provisions of the Equality Act. It may be that Miss R is covered by the Equality Act 
2010, but its not our role to make a finding on that point  because thats a finding for the 
Courts to make. Nor is it our role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  
again, thats a matter for the Courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. In order to decide that, however, we have to take a number of things into 
account, including relevant law and what we consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. So although its for the Courts to say whether or not Unum has breached the 
Equality Act 2010, were required to take the Equality Act 2010 into account, if its relevant, 
amongst other things when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint. And having done so, based on all Ive seen, I dont think Unum has treated Miss 
R unfairly or unreasonably. I hope it reassures Miss R to know that someone independent 
and impartial has considered this point very carefully.
Miss R has referred to the fact that Unum didnt deal with her concerns about a potential 
breach of the Equality Act 2010 within its final response to her complaint. However, it seems 
to me that this is a complaint point about the way Unum handles complaints. And this isnt an 
activity were specifically able to consider under our rules. 
I appreciate Miss R has a further OH report dated July 2023 which she feels supports her 
claim. But I must make it clear that, as the investigator explained, I havent taken that report 
into account when deciding this complaint. Thats because Unum hasnt had an opportunity 
to review or comment on that report. Miss R would need to send a copy of the July 2023 OH 
report (and any new medical evidence she may wish to obtain) to Unum for it to consider 
and to decide whether or not it alters its understanding of her claim. If Miss R is unhappy 
with Unums consideration of any new evidence, she may be able to make a new complaint 
to us about that issue alone. 
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Miss Rs position, I dont find it was unfair 
or unreasonable for Unum to turn down her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman