DRN-3696036
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Sense Network Limited gave him unsuitable advice to
transfer his defined benefits from his occupational pension scheme (OPS)  the British Steel
Pension Scheme (BSPS)  to a Self Invested Personal Pension policy (SIPP).
What happened
The investigator who considered this matter set out the background to the complaint in her 
assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, one of
which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ls employer would be set up  the BSPS 2. 
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor
scheme, BSPS 2, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) or into a private arrangement, such as
a PPP or SIPP.
Mr L joined the BSPS in January 1997, and the scheme retirement age was 65 with the 
option of retiring early.
When the pensions regulator announced terms for the closing BSPS pension, members
were provided with personal information and illustrations in September 2017 to help them 
make their choices.
The BSPS quoted a transfer value of £341,533.48 which was guaranteed until 11 December 
2017. 
A client review was completed on 22 August 2017, during which a fact find document was 
completed. This noted Mr Ls circumstances at the time of advice as follows:
He was living with his partner, and had two dependent children. 
He was employed, earning around £45,000 gross each year.
His partner was earning £28,000 gross a year.
The detailed expenditure breakdown showed total household expenditure of £46,209 
a year.
He owned his property valued at £160,000, with an outstanding mortgage of £80,000 
due to be fully repaid in 2024.
He also had £20,000 outstanding credit card balances held jointly with his partner.
He was a member of two defined contribution pensions; a member of his employers
group personal pension scheme valued at £3,708, and a group personal pension with 
Fidelity worth £28,441.96.
He was a member of the employers Sharesave Scheme.
He had £5,000 in joint savings and £125,000 inherited from his fathers estate.
Sense obtained a quote for his expected state pension, estimated to be £128.65 pw 
from the age of 67. It also obtained a quote for his partner, which gave an estimated 
weekly state pension from 67 of £155.18.
He was recorded as being in good health, but he had a medical condition for which 
he was taking daily medication. 
His risk profile was assessed as being an 8 on a risk scale of 1 to 10, where 1 was the 
lowest and 10 was the highest risk. This was categorised as being Moderate to 
Adventurous.
A Knowledge and Experience assessment was carried out, where Mr L selected yes to the
previous purchases of shares, although no more detail was provided on this here or 
elsewhere in other documentation. He said he had experience through the British Steel 
Sharesave scheme, had past endowment policies and his two group personal pensions.
In terms of his Capacity for Loss, Mr L entered 20% as the maximum percentage of the
investment we are currently discussing (not your whole investment capital) which you could
afford to lose if markets etc do not perform as anticipated.
There was also a fact find addendum, which provided detailed notes on discussions held 
with Mr L about a number of areas:
Sense explained that the 7.82% critical yield required to age 60 to match the scheme 
benefits from the TVAS report would be very difficult to achieve, but Mr L was recorded as 
feeling that this was a lower return than funds he had selected in his employer personal 
pension using an example of the almost 15% return generated by the Aberdeen Asia Pacific 
Equity fund over the previous 12 months, and 50% over the past three years
When discussing death benefits, a BSPS nomination form said no spouses pension would 
be paid to an unmarried partner, and transferring to a personal pension arrangement would 
allow him to leave a lump sum to his family on death.
As to why a transfer should be considered now, this recorded that Mr L felt the size of the 
CETV at that time meant he wanted to transfer, and he was concerned the CETV on offer 
could be reduced in future.The scheme pension would be likely to support him and his partner with all of their 
proposed and anticipated spending throughout their lives, but this would make it impossible 
to control the flow of income, and could result in surplus income building up that would not 
help in their objective of passing wealth on to family.
Mr L liked the idea of complete flexibility over when and how he could draw on his pension 
funds. He wanted to be able to access his full tax-free cash entitlement at the age of 55.
He also felt that the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) would provide sufficient 
drawdown capital, outweighing the benefits of an index-linked final salary pension for the 
rest of his life.
He viewed the BSPS benefits as a possible legacy asset, with any unused pension passing 
to his partner and children.
The report also said that Mr L viewed the CETV as presenting him with a unique opportunity 
to transform your lifestyle.
There was further mention of the importance Mr L put on the size of the CETV, and that he 
was concerned that, if a larger number of BSPS members transferred out, the trustees might 
withdraw the offer of an enhanced capital amount. Sense added that there had been a 
significant increase in CETVs for most members.
The report set out his annual expenditure at around £26,000 a year, which the investigator 
noted differed significantly from the expenditure of £46,209 recorded in the fact find. It wasnt 
clear to the investigator how this figure had been determined, as the fact find detailed total 
household expenditure.
Mr Ls attitude to risk was described as meaning that you are prepared to take a medium 
degree of risk with your investment in return for the prospect of improving longer term 
investment performance.
The only pension listed under existing pension plans was Mr Ls BSPS benefits, as of the
date of leaving in March 2017.
For the death benefits available from the BSPS, the report explained that as he and his 
partner werent married, it would be solely at the discretion of the Trustees to provide a 
spouses pension to [his partner] in the event of you predeceasing [his partner].
The report set out Mr Ls available retirement options; to remain within the scheme, 
transferring to a PPP or SIPP, taking out whole of life cover, or a combination of these.
Sense recommended that he not remain within the scheme, and that transferring his benefits 
to a personal pension arrangement would enable him to better meet his objectives. It also 
didnt recommend taking out a whole of life plan to provide the CETV equivalent at whatever 
time he died, discounting it based on future cost increases and that this would be difficult to 
afford on his pension.
Sense made a recommendation to transfer into a SIPP, due to it being competitively priced 
and giving access to a wide range of investment types.
A Transfer Value Analysis Report (TVAS) was completed. This showed that in order to
buy an annuity to match the benefits provided by his existing scheme in retirement, the
new pension being recommended would need to grow by 14.59% a year if retiring at 50,
9.56% if retiring at 60, and 7.82% at 65.The pension transfer report explained it was very unlikely that investment through a personal
pension arrangement would produce these annual returns. It also highlighted that if Mr L 
were to take the same level of income as the scheme pension through drawdown, increasing 
each year in line with RPI, the funds would run out by the age of 79.
The report went on to recommend the transfer, however, on the basis that Mr L would prefer 
flexibility of access from 55, and to leave a legacy fund for his family.
Sense recommended that Mr L transfer into an AJ Bell Investcentre SIPP, to be 100%
invested into their model portfolio Clear Cut Model Portfolio 4C, the reasons given being that
this portfolio was compatible with his attitude to risk, along with its performance.
The charges associated with the transfer were:
Initial advice charge of £5,683.07
0.5% annual ongoing advice fee
Total Expense Ratio (TER) of 0.9% a year
AJ Bell annual custody fee of 0.2% a year
The AJ Bell illustration dated 13 September 2017 was dated to an assumed retirement age 
of 75. The growth rates in their projection to 75 years old was broken down between a 1% 
holding in Cash and 99% in funds and shares. For the funds and shares the projected 
growth rates were -0.49% low growth, 2.44% medium and 5.37% high growth.
Mr L accepted the recommendation to transfer.
Mr L then received a letter from the Financial Conduct Authority informing him he may have 
not been correctly advised about his BSPS pension, and as a result of this he raised a 
complaint.
Sense declined to uphold the complaint, however. Dissatisfied with the response, Mr L 
referred the matter to this service.
Having considered the complaint, our investigator thought that it should be upheld. He said 
the following in summary:
The regulators guidance, when considering a transfer of defined benefits, was that it 
should be presumed to be unsuitable unless it could be clearly demonstrated that it 
was in an individuals best interests.
Although it was recorded that Mr L liked the idea of having flexibility in income 
withdrawals, and also wished to withdraw tax free cash at age 55, there was no 
record of an objective relating to the latter. And Mr L had said that there was no 
specific need for the capital, e.g. the mortgage would in any case be repaid by the 
end of 2024.
Mr L had said that he would like the option of retiring at 60, but would likely continue 
working beyond this if he was still able. And so the investigator queried as to why Mr 
L was advised to transfer that that time. Although Mr L may had views and ideas on 
taking his income flexibly, these should have bene challenged by the adviser, given 
the risks posed to his financial security by relinquishing the guarantees within the 
scheme.The pension transfer report made no mention of the 12 years accrual in the defined 
contribution scheme by age 60, as well as the £29,000 in the Fidelity pension plan.
Whilst not of sufficient size to support his entire income need at retirement, these 
assets could provide the flexibility Mr L sought, for example taking tax free cash at 55 
if required, whilst retaining the BSPS guaranteed benefits.
By waiting until nearer to Mr Ls retirement, he could then decide whether transferring 
was the right decision for him.
But there was no compelling case for Mr L needing to access his pension benefits 
flexibly, or at last in a different way to that offered by the scheme.
Whilst it was understandable that Mr L wanted to leave a lump sum to his family in 
the event of his death, a pension was designed to primarily support the individual in 
retirement. But no details of the familys needs in terms of a lump sum were 
recorded, and his partner may have had their own pension arrangements to rely 
upon. Alternatively, if a lump sum was important, then a term assurance plan could 
have been investigated.
The critical yields needed to match the scheme benefits at 14.59%, 9.56% and 
7.82% to ages 50, 60 and 65 respectively were unlikely to be achieved, even with Mr 
Ls recorded risk profile. And to make the transfer worthwhile, these would need to be 
exceeded.
The advice had been given during the period that this service was publishing 
information with which businesses could calculate future discount rates for cases 
which were being upheld and required redress calculations. 
Whilst businesses werent required to use these when giving advice, they 
nevertheless provided a useful guide as to the kinds of returns deemed feasible at 
the time of the advice.
The discount rate was 4.4% pa for the period up to Mr Ls normal retirement date 
(65), and 4.1% up to age 60. 
The mid band growth rate within the SIPP projection was 2.44%, with the higher rate 
band being 5.37%, and so both of these were also well below the required critical 
yields to match the scheme benefits. These were also set to age 75, rather than 65 
or 60. It was unlikely that those for the lower ages would have been any closer to the 
required critical yields.
The critical yield was important in determining whether Mr Ls pension would be 
worth more or less in line with his attitude to risk, as per COBS 19.1.7. But there 
were no indications that, even with Mr Ls attitude to risk, there would be sufficient 
returns to match the BSPS income.
Mr L wouldnt have transferred, had he understood the associated risks and impact of 
the transfer. He had limited investment experience, but all of his investments were 
now dependent on risk based exposure.
There were no explicit charges for Mr L in the BSPS, but those which would have 
been levied on the SIPP would have also impacted his retirement plans.Had Mr L been advised to transfer to the BSPS 2 instead, he would have benefitted 
from a secure, escalating pension, whether or not he retired early. That guaranteed 
income would have been supplemented by the state pension at a later date, and any 
shortfall in between could have been met by accessing his defined contributions 
plans. This would also have given him the flexibility the report said he required.
The investigator recommended that Sense undertake a loss calculation in accordance
with the regulators guidance (FG 17/9) for such complaints  and on the basis that Mr L
would have opted to join the BSPS 2.
He said that any redress should in the first instance be paid to Mr Ls pension plan, but if this 
wasnt possible, it should be paid directly to Mr L, with a notional deduction for the (assumed 
basic rate) income tax he would have paid on the pension benefits.
He also said that Sense should pay Mr L £300 in respect of the distress and inconvenience 
the matter would have caused him due to the realisation that hes lost out on valuable 
guaranteed benefits.
Mr L made no further comment on the investigators conclusions, but Sense said the 
following in summary:
Its adviser fully took on board the guidance relating to the presumed unsuitability of a 
transfer, unless it could be clearly demonstrated otherwise. 
It accepted certain elements within the investigators assessment, such as delaying 
the decision to transfer until closer to retirement, but it was important to take into 
consideration the analysis conducted in this regard with a balanced view of Mr Ls 
circumstances and objectives.
Had Mr Ls sole reason for transfer been flexibility in accessing his pension benefits, 
it wouldnt have recommended the transfer. But there were other considerations and 
core objectives, as follows:
oProvision for spouses and dependants pension (Mr L wasnt married to his 
partner)
oLump sum death benefits upon his death before retirement
oThe facility to retire early
oTax free lump sum at retirement
oTo increase the pension
oThe security of the pension
It was unclear as to how the investigator had learned that Mr L had inherited £125,00 
from his fathers estate. The information it held indicated that Mr Ls father was still 
alive.
Whilst it acknowledged the point about pension funds being primarily for the 
individual, it asked whether it was expected that it disregard Mr Ls longstanding 
partners financial security by ignoring a core objective and simply consider him. It 
said that it would expect its adviser to consider the circumstances of both Mr L and 
his partner.It had checked the scheme booklet and the rules relating to Mr Ls partners potential 
entitlement in the event of his death, but this precluded the usual spouses 
entitlement.
Mr Ls partner didnt have their own pension provision, other than the state pension. 
Senses research had established this.
A term assurance policy would have been for a fixed term, rather than the whole of 
life policy which was more appropriate here, and was discounted due to costs.
Mr L had death in service benefits of four times his salary and it ensured that his 
partner was the nominated beneficiary. A term assurance policy would only have 
provided short term benefits, but it wouldnt have provided an income for the rest of 
his partners life, as per the objective.
Life cover options were extensively researched and discussed with Mr L. But he had 
medical conditions and concerns about his life expectancy with a family history of 
other illnesses. This needed to be considered as part of the advice.
The adviser repeatedly highlighted and explained the risks associated with the 
transfer  Mr L was placed in a fully informed position and made his decision based 
upon his objectives for the lump sum death benefits and the flexibility  specifically 
accessing his fund as and when he wished.
Mr L hadnt engaged with in its initial investigations, and hadnt responded to 
requests for further information. Mr L had also received regular reviews from its 
appointed representative since the transfer but had never suggested that he was 
concerned he may have received unsuitable advice.
Had Mr L switched to the BSPS 2 or the PPF, and died, his partner would only have 
received the death in service benefits and the small amounts in the defined 
contributions schemes. Given his relationship status with his partner, this wouldnt 
have been sufficient to sustain them in later life.
A cashflow analysis was undertaken with Mr L which considered a number of 
scenarios, and this continued to be used with him to demonstrate evolving retirement 
income strategies.
After it had issued its final response letter, Mr L indicated that he was happy with the 
advice which had been given, but knew that a number of colleagues had received 
compensation. Sense suggested that this was the reason a complaint had been 
made.
It was unclear as to whether the ongoing advice and review of Mr Ls retirement 
strategy had been considered. The content of the discussions recorded on the file 
contradicted those which had been supplied to this service.
It acknowledged that there were some minor discrepancies on the files, but these 
were inconsequential to the advice and objectives which had been taken into 
consideration when providing that advice to Mr L.The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her view, however, and so confirmed to both 
parties that the matter would be referred to an ombudsman for review.
The investigator then informed Sense that shed enquired of Mr L as to whether, if the 
complaint was upheld, his preference would be to have a loss calculation undertaken on the 
existing basis, or to await the new methodology for defined benefit transfer redress 
calculations.
As far as I can tell, Mr L didnt express a preference.
The (new) investigator then wrote to both parties to confirm that the FCA had developed a 
BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate redress for cases which were included in the 
BSPS consumer redress scheme. But, he said, the FCA was also encouraging businesses 
to use the calculator for non-scheme cases.
The investigator further said that, when issuing my decision, I may require Sense to use the 
FCAs BSPS-specific calculator to determine any redress due to Mr L.
The investigator said that, if either party didnt think it was appropriate to use the BSPS-
specific redress calculator in the circumstances of Mr Ls complaint, they should let him
know by 6 June 2023. In response, Sense confirmed that it would use the BSPS-specific 
calculator.
The complaint has now been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached similar conclusions to those set out by the investigator, 
and for broadly the same reasons.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP, I need to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The applicable guidance, rules, regulations and requirements 
This isnt a comprehensive list of the guidance, rules and regulations which applied, but 
provides useful context for my assessment of the business' actions here.
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time Sense advised Mr L were 
set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like Sense, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, Sense 
needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met Mr Ls objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the requirement 
for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder 
pension scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises 
a retail client to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension 
scheme with safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to         
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and
(4)take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;    
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.Ive therefore considered the suitability of Senses advice to Mr L in the context of the above 
requirements and guidance.
Senses rationale for transferring
Mr L wasnt categorised as an execution only or insistent client, and Sense was taking him 
through the advice process. Therefore, Sense could be confident that he would be acting 
upon its advice.
In accordance with COBS 9.2.2R, fact finding was undertaken for Mr L and his 
circumstances and objectives were recorded  as Ive noted above.
As with the investigator, and as agreed by Sense, Ive noted above that the FCAs guidance 
was that the starting assumption for an assessment of Mr Ls options was that a transfer 
would be unsuitable, unless it could clearly be demonstrated that it was in his best interests 
in order to meet specific objectives. 
And so Ill therefore explore these objectives further below. But initially, Ill consider the
advice to transfer from a purely financial perspective  so, in broad terms, how likely was it
that Mr L would be better off financially as a result of the transfer.
The financial case to transfer
Sense obtained a transfer report for comparison purposes to determine the viability of the 
transfer to meet Mr Ls objectives from a financial perspective.
The suitability report was issued before the FCAs revised guidance which was released in 
late October 2017, and which provided discount rates for levels of growth which were 
deemed achievable for particular time periods until prospective retirement. But before that, 
similar rates were published by this service. As noted by the investigator, businesses werent 
required to reference these when providing advice on transfers, but they would nevertheless 
have been a useful indicator of the type of investment return deemed feasible at the time.
The discount rate deemed achievable for the number of years left to the scheme retirement 
age of 65 was 4.4% pa, and to age 60 it was 4.1% pa. And the mid and high band growth 
rates used to illustrate the benefits which might be payable from a PPP (adjusted for 
inflation) were 2.44% pa and 5.37% pa respectively
The critical yields to age 65, at 7.82%, to age 60, at 9.56%, and to age 50, at 14.59% 
therefore comfortably exceeded both the discount (or growth) rate deemed achievable over 
the same periods, and both the mid and high growth rates used by the pension provider  
the latter of which (or somewhere in between) might perhaps be a reasonable assumption 
for an moderate to adventurous risk investor.
Sense itself said it considered the critical yields to likely be unachievable, and I agree - I 
think its more likely than not that the critical yields were in fact unachievable, year on year, 
for the number of years that Mr L had until he reached either early or normal retirement age. 
And as a reminder, these growth rates were required to just match the scheme benefits.
Sense said that, if Mr L took the same income which would be provided by the scheme at 
age 60, his transferred pension funds would likely run out by age 80, and that if he took the 
same income at age 65, it would run out by age 81. If Mr L took the same income from age 
55, this was projected to run out by age 79. This, it said, compared to the average life 
expectancy of someone of his age of 86.Ive also noted, in Senses response, that it said one of Mr Ls objectives was to increase his 
pension. But this wasnt a realistic outcome, as evidenced above. It was unlikely that the 
overall income benefit provided by the scheme could be matched, let alone bettered, through 
transferring.
From a financial perspective, there needed to be a realistic chance that the benefits of the
scheme could be bettered through transferring. As set out by the investigator, the guidance 
was that it needed to be clearly demonstrated that the transfer would be in Mr Ls best 
interests. As such, my view is that the transfer couldnt be justified from a financial 
perspective, especially given the valuable guarantees which Mr L would be relinquishing.
But the feasibility of achieving a critical yield alone wouldnt in any case indicate suitability of
a transfer, as set out in COBS 19.1.7B.
The requirement for control and flexibility - and early retirement
Before I assess these objectives in greater detail, I think its firstly fair to say that Sense did 
provide warnings on the guarantees which would be relinquished, but as Sense will be 
aware, and as noted by the investigator, risk warnings alone wouldnt render unsuitable 
advice suitable. And irrespective of the detail contained in a recommendation report, this 
also wouldnt make otherwise unsuitable advice suitable. Sense needed to be satisfied, 
before providing its recommendation, that relinquishing the guarantees and taking the 
investment risk was a suitable course of action for Mr L.
As Ive said above, part of Senses reasoning for the recommended transfer, despite the 
likely inability of the transferred benefits to match those which would have been produced by 
the scheme, was that Mr L required flexibility of income due to his particular circumstances 
and objectives. And so Ive given this argument careful consideration.
Id initially say that, even without investment experience or other significant assets, I do 
acknowledge that Mr L may have understood the principle of risk/reward which would be 
associated with flexible income drawdown, and that there may have been discussions 
around such concepts with colleagues who were going through the same process. 
I also think its possible that Mr L had a moderate to adventurous risk rating, given his age 
and number of years to retirement  although I would caveat that with his somewhat limited 
investment experience. 
But I dont think Mr L in any case needed to take the associated risks here. In terms of the 
control and flexibility argument, I understand that this would be that Mr L would have 
control over his pension funds, outside of the BSPS, and could alter the income he withdrew 
from a flexi-drawdown arrangement to satisfy changing income needs. 
But as noted above, by age 65, Mr L would have accrued around 17 years worth of defined
contributions in the replacement scheme, or 12 years by age 60. Given the likely value of 
this separate pot of money on the basis of the employer and employee contribution rates, 
this could be used to plug any gaps between him starting to take flexible benefits and his 
OPS/state pension beginning. Its possible that he could have relied on the proceeds of his 
defined contributions plan for flexible access to pension benefits, and then taken guaranteed 
benefits from either the BSPS 2 or the PPF as and when needed. 
Alternatively if, on the basis of an income requirement which outstripped this over the years 
from whatever age Mr L chose to retire (if early) left to age 65  although I would say that I 
dont think the actual income requirement was demonstrably known at the time of advice, or could in any case reasonably have been known with any certainty given his distance from 
retirement - Mr L could then have begun to take the scheme benefits early if needed.
Mr L would have been able to choose a tax efficient level of income (or lump sum
withdrawals if he later decided he wanted them) through the defined contribution accrual, 
until the point that he either needed, or chose, to begin taking benefits from either the BSPS 
2 or the PPF. And so any need for flexibility of income could have been addressed in this 
way.
Mr L may then have been in the fortunate position of receiving an income which was higher 
than his actual needs, especially when the state pension began, but he could have simply 
reinvested any excess as he saw fit, or, to provide a legacy for his partner or children, 
immediately gift it away to avoid it being subject to inheritance tax.
Sense said in the suitability report that Mr L was willing to accept the trade-off between a 
secure income and investment risk to achieve his objectives. As Ive said above, although Mr 
L didnt have any particularly extensive financial experience, I think he may have understood 
the principle of risk/reward, and risk warnings were provided by Sense. 
But as Ive noted above, Mr L was accruing further benefits in his defined contribution 
scheme, and given the likely accumulation of funds in that scheme, compared against the 
benefits accrued in the final salary scheme, at the normal scheme retirement age, around 17 
years of his pension accrual at age 65 (or 12 at age 60) would likely be derived of the 
defined contribution scheme. As such, Mr L would already by necessity have been taking 
investment risk through the replacement scheme.
In light of this, and given that in the 20 years up to that point Mr L had been accruing defined 
benefits, I think the guarantees attached to those defined benefits would have been of 
considerable value and shouldnt have been relinquished lightly in favour of flexibility which, 
as far as I can tell, was loosely defined around the possibility of early retirement  albeit the 
actual likely decision making around this was some years distant.
Although not specifically mentioned in the suitability report, as with others in his position, I 
think its fair to say that Mr L may have been concerned about the future of the BSPS and his 
associated benefits. And I appreciate that there will be instances where a client seeks 
financial advice with preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health of an 
employer or pension scheme.
But there was no prospect of the BSPS funds being lost to the employer. Further, the whole 
point of the BSPS consultation, which had resulted in the agreement being announced in 
August 2017, had been to avoid the necessity of the BSPS pension funds entering the PPF, 
and by the point of the advice (and in fact by the point of the Time to Choose exercise) the 
BSPS 2 seemed more likely than not to be a viable alternative. 
There were still conditions which still needed to be met for the BSPS 2 to be established, but 
when the advice was given, there was no imminent prospect of the BSPS entering the PPF 
without there being an alternative to this  the BSPS 2. In fact, I think its reasonable to say 
that all indications were to the contrary.
The prospect of Mr Ls accrued benefits needing to enter the PPF, and so there being a 10% 
reduction in benefits payable, had receded. But even if this remained the more likely 
outcome, this would still have provided him with valuable benefit guarantees, and a more 
favourable early retirement reduction if he did in fact take scheme benefits earlier than age 
65. Mr L therefore didnt need to make any decisions about transferring out his defined benefits 
at that point. And Ive noted that Sense also accepts that point, albeit with caveats around 
the death benefits, which I address below. The prospect of Mr Ls accrued benefits needing 
to enter the PPF had receded. But even if this remained the more likely outcome, this would 
still have provided him with valuable benefit guarantees, and a more favourable early 
retirement reduction if he did in fact take scheme benefits earlier than age 65. 
Mr Ls plans, including retirement, may in any case have changed significantly in the 12 
intervening years between then and him reaching age 60, or 17 years to age 65. Any 
flexibility requirements could have been addressed nearer to, or at, the point of Mr Ls 
retirement  and Mr L would have been able to transfer out of the BSPS 2 if needed.
There may have been lower CETVs offered in the future if gilt yields and other market 
factors changed, but for the reasons given, I think that Mr L could have achieved a degree of 
flexibility with his pension benefits without needing to transfer at all. And even if he did 
ultimately decide that flexi access drawdown was his preferred option  and again, this could 
have been established closer to his actual retirement age  Mr L or his adviser could then 
assess at that point whether the transfer represented good value.
And so on the basis of what Ive said above, it follows that I dont think the mooted possibility 
of early retirement, or any other requirement around control over, and flexibility of, income, 
was sufficient reason for Mr L to transfer his deferred benefits.
Death benefits
I think this is arguably the mainstay of Senses argument for the suitability of the transfer. 
And so Ive carefully considered what Sense said in the suitability report about the different 
format of the death benefits being appealing to Mr L, given his relationship status, and 
indeed what Sense has said in response to the investigators assessment. 
And its fair to say that, if Mr L remained unmarried, the death benefits offered by the transfer 
would likely be more beneficial to Mr Ls partner, given the scheme rules. 
The investigator made the point that accrued pension provision is intended to provide for an 
individuals retirement rather than a desire to leave a legacy in the form of a lump sum. And 
in general terms Id agree - the recommendation needed to be given in the context of Mr Ls 
best interests, and any dependent children would in any case receive a dependants pension 
from the scheme until leaving full time education.
But I do acknowledge the point about Mr Ls partner, and the lack of their own pension 
provision in the event of Mr Ls death. However, as longstanding partners, whod had 
children together, they would of course also likely have had a joint vested interest in Mr Ls 
security in retirement, especially if Mr Ls partner had no private pension provision of their 
own.
So there was a financial trade off to be considered between the likelihood for Mr L and his 
partner to be able to benefit from the higher guaranteed income than would be received by 
way of a transfer, for a reasonable number of years, and the prospect of Mr Ls partner being 
able to benefit from a lump sum payment in the event of his death.
In my own consideration of this, Ive firstly noted that Mr L was recorded as being in good 
health. And other than a medical condition which was being managed by medication, he had 
no health issues which might mean that death benefits, or any likelihood to not benefit from a 
pension income derived of the scheme for a reasonable amount of time, were of concern at 
that point. If Mr L died whilst still employed, his partner would have received the death in service 
benefit, at four times his salary, plus a return of his defined contributions up that point. That 
would have amount to around £180,000, plus his defined contributions, in addition to the 
fund value of his defined contributions, plus the value of his Fidelity pension plan. Dependent 
upon what point before retirement this occurred, Mr Ls partner could therefore in any case 
have received comfortably in excess of £200,000 as a lump sum.
By age 60, with 12 years defined contributions, and assuming modest fund growth and 
salary increases of 2% pa, Mr L would have likely accrued around £110,000. At age 65, this 
would be in the region of £170,000. And there was also a guaranteed payment period of the 
full pension for five years. As at the date of leaving, this was around £14,000 pa, and so 
would have provided a further (at least) £70,000, in addition to the then fund value of the 
Fidelity plan.
And all of this of course precludes the possibility that Mr L and his partner may have married 
in the interim. There was no recorded prospect of that at the time of the advice, and so I 
havent factored this into the above assessment, but given the number of years to 
retirement, and the benefits to be gained by retirement age for Mr Ls partner if they still had 
no pension provision of their own, I dont think it can necessarily be ruled out as a possibility. 
People do marry for financial benefit.
An analysis of a whole of life policy to make up the difference in terms of the lump sum 
benefit for Mr Ls partner had been undertaken, and discounted on the basis of cost, but 
again, given the likely value of Mr Ls defined contributions plans by retirement age which 
could have been used to fund such a plan, if he remained unmarried and his partner still had 
no pension provision of their own, then this is something which could have been revisited at 
the time.
I therefore think that Mr L more likely than not had an entirely understandable desire to leave 
a financial legacy for his partner, who would at the time of the advice have been dependent 
upon his pension provision, but given the other sources of lump sum payments, in addition to 
the mortgage scheduled to be repaid by 2024, I dont think the lump sum which would have 
derived from transferring was essential, and certainly not to the extent that it would justify Mr 
L compromising the security of his own, and his partners, financial future whilst still living.
So for the reasons given, I dont think the prospect of a lump sum benefit by way of 
transferring his defined benefits constituted sufficient reason to transfer and lose otherwise 
valuable guaranteed benefits for Mr L personally, and his partner. 
What should Sense have done  and would it have made a difference to Mr Ls decision?
There were understandably concerns relating to the BSPS at the time of the advice - and I
fully acknowledge this. Its fair to say that this was a period of great uncertainty for
individuals such as Mr L. But this only serves to emphasise the need for a balanced
assessment of the options available and, ultimately, suitable advice.
Furthermore, as Ive also said above, there was no need for Mr L to make any decision
about his BSPS benefits at this point in time and it was the responsibility of Sense to
explain to Mr L why he didnt need to make any irreversible decision on relinquishing
valuable scheme pension guarantees at that time. As Ive said above, there was no
imminent prospect of Mr Ls scheme benefits needing to enter the PPF, which would have 
ruled out a later transfer. On the contrary, whist I acknowledge it wasnt at that point 
guaranteed, I think the indications were that the BSPS 2 would more likely than not be 
successfully implemented.Ive also thought very carefully about whether the service provided to Mr L was a balanced
appraisal of the options available to him. Mr L, amongst many others in a similar position,
may have been concerned by developments relating to his employment and the BSPS, but
he was nevertheless entitled to an impartial review of his options.
And looking at those options, especially relating to flexibility and lump sum death benefits, I 
dont think enough weight or consideration was given to the means, such as the defined 
contributions plans, as set out above, of providing for Mr Ls partner beyond the benefits 
which might be payable from the scheme.
For the reasons given above, I dont think the perceived advantage of flexibility and control
of income outweighed the guaranteed benefits in the scheme, and Im satisfied that Mr Ls
income needs could likely have been met by well-planned access to his different types of 
accrued benefits by the time he came to retirement. The available evidence simply doesnt 
support the position as to why control or flexibility would have been sufficiently compelling 
reasons for Mr L to relinquish 20 years valuable benefit guarantees  especially at the age 
of 48.
Albeit not specifically mentioned in the suitability report, any concerns Mr L may have 
harboured about the existing scheme could have been successfully allayed, such that he 
appreciated the important guaranteed benefits, even under the PPF, which he would be 
relinquishing for the sake of income flexibility which he simply didnt need or could in any 
case access in other ways, and a future pension which would, other than the state pension 
from age 67, be entirely dependent upon investment returns  rather than being partially 
dependent upon them as would otherwise have been the case through the defined 
contribution scheme.
Tax free cash for whatever purpose would have been available both from his accrued 
defined contribution and defined benefit pension funds. Death benefits beyond the five years 
guaranteed payment period were also payable from the defined benefit scheme, should Mr 
Ls relationship circumstances change in the future, albeit in a different format from those 
available from the SIPP.
The critical yield is usually a telling indicator of the value of the benefits being relinquished.
As Ive set out above, the critical yields were higher than the discount rate and the mid (and 
higher) band growth rate set out by the pension provider. And Id reiterate that I think it was 
unlikely to be achievable, year on year, to even simply match the scheme benefits, as also 
noted by Sense.
Taking account of Mr Ls circumstances, including his recorded attitude to risk, his objectives 
and the guarantees which the BSPS offered and would have persisted with either the BSPS 
2 or the PPF, my view is that Sense should have advised against the transfer.
And I think that, had this happened, Mr L would have followed that advice and not
transferred his benefits to the PPP.
Summary
For the reasons given, my view is that a fair and reasonable assessment of this case leads
to a clear conclusion  that the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable for Mr L, nor was
it in his best interests. The key contributing factors here are: the lack of a comprehensive 
and balanced portrayal of Mr Ls options and the future benefits available from both the 
BSPS defined benefits and defined contributions  a failure to adhere to COBS 19.1.2 (2) 
and 19.1.8.Furthermore, at least three of the key benefits sought by Mr L were available without 
needing to transfer  possible early retirement and flexibility through utilising the different 
types of scheme benefits which would have been available to him, along with lump sum 
death benefits through the other means available, both before and after retirement. 
My view is that, taking account of the critical yields, and even Mr Ls recorded moderate to 
adventurous attitude to risk with regard to his pension funds, and matching that with the 
likely corresponding investment returns, it was unlikely (as also indicated by Sense), albeit I 
acknowledge, not impossible, that the benefits available from the BSPS, or a successor 
scheme, could be bettered through the transfer. 
As the other reasons for transferring were insufficiently compelling, when considered against 
the valuable benefits being relinquished, as set out in COBS 2.1.1R and the guidance of 
COBS 19.1.6, Sense would - or should - then have drawn, and conveyed, the conclusion 
that transferring wasnt in Mr Ls best interests.
Putting things right
As set out in the investigators further comments relating to the BSPS-specific redress 
calculator, I consider that it would be appropriate to use that calculator here, given the 
BSPS-specific circumstances.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr L, as far as possible,
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. 
In terms of the option Mr L would have chosen, had he been suitably advised, Ive noted that 
there would be a 10% reduction in the starting pension entitlement within the PPF, whereas 
the BSPS 2 wouldnt cut the starting entitlement for deferred members.
Regarding death benefits, under the BPSP 2 the spouses pension would be set at 50% of 
Mr Ls pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was 
taken at retirement. But as Mr L was single at the time, and unless he had undisclosed plans 
to marry, I dont think this particular enhancement over the PPF benefits would have had 
much resonance for him at that time.
The reduction for early retirement under the PPF was lower and the commutation factors for 
the tax free cash entitlement were also slightly more favourable. And so, on the basis of 
prospective early retirement, both the starting income and the tax free cash would likely have 
been higher with the PPF.
One of Mr Ls recorded objectives was the possibility of being able to retire early. And so this 
would have been a point which required careful consideration when weighing up whether he 
should opt for the BSPS 2 or remain in the BSPS with a likely subsequent move into the 
PPF.
But for the reasons set out above, even if Mr L envisaged retiring early, I think its likely that, 
properly advised, he could have accessed his defined contribution scheme benefits to make 
up any income shortfall in the period between retirement and starting to take his defined 
benefits, which could then have been deferred until normal scheme retirement age. The 
advantages of early retirement through the PPF wouldnt therefore have applied.
And so, for the reasons given, my view is that its the benefits offered by the BSPS 2 which 
should be used for comparison purposes.I therefore consider that Mr L would most likely have remained in the occupational pension 
scheme and opted to join the BSPS 2 if suitable advice had been given. And as Ive set out 
above, given the amount of time left to retirement, I dont think it could be assumed that Mr L 
would take his defined benefits before age 65, especially with the possibility, as outlined 
above, of accessing his accrued defined contributions flexibly if required.
Sense Network Limited must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules 
for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy 
statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
Sense Network Limited should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate 
the redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr L and our service 
upon completion of the calculation.
Mr L hasnt yet retired, and Im unaware that he has any plans to do so early at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ls
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and
set out in DISP App 4, Sense Network Limited should:
calculate and offer Mr L redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr L before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation),
and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment
their defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr L receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr L accepts Sense Network Limiteds offer to calculate how much of its redress 
could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr L for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of its redress augmented,
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ls end of year tax position.Redress paid to Mr L as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in
line with DISP App 4, businesses may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have
been taxed according to Mr Ls likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Sense Network Limited to pay Mr L the 
compensation amount as set out above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I would also
recommend that Sense Network Limited pays Mr L the balance.
If Mr L accepts this final decision, the award will be binding on Sense Network Limited.
My recommendation wouldnt be binding on Sense Network Limited. Further, its unlikely that 
Mr L could accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr L may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final 
decision.
As with the investigator, my view is that this matter will have caused Mr L a not 
inconsiderable amount of concern about his security in retirement. As such, I agree that 
Sense Network Limited should also pay Mr L £300 in respect of this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Sense Network Limited to 
undertake the above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman