DRN-4085441
The complaint
Miss B says that Oplo PL Ltd (who Ill refer to as Oplo) unfairly rejected her complaint
about the sale of a timeshare she financed through them. 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint last month. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below:
Miss B visited Malta and signed up for a timeshare product with a company Ill call Az in
July 2019 (the Time of Sale). She thought the agreement was for five years but in 2020 she
says she discovered it was for much longer. She explained she had no idea she was taking
out a loan, it wasnt her signature on the direct debit mandate, and she wouldnt have
proceeded if shed known she was entering into an agreement for a loan of over £13,600
from a finance company Ill call H.
Miss B complained to H about the sale of the timeshare and loan, but they explained that,
whilst the timeshare may have had a term of five years, the loan Miss B used to fund the
timeshare had a term of 15 years. They noted the agreement had been signed electronically
by Miss B and that the electronic signature could only have been completed by her.
Miss B referred her complaint to this service and expanded on why she thought the
timeshare and loan had been mis-sold. She said:
The sales agent had given her £1,000 and told her not to say anything about it.
That the timeshare company hadnt discussed the issue with the sales agents to
clarify what had happened and that they could have.
That she had told the holiday company she didnt want to use points but wanted to
pay in sterling.
That shed been told she could sell her points from time to time.
That the sales agents had suggested shed be able to go on lots of holidays but the
points she had didnt allow that and meant she had to top up the value and pay for
her travel.
That shed never seen the money that she was supposed to have been loaned.
That she had a headache when she was asked to sign the paperwork after a lengthy
presentation and had dyslexia, so the paperwork was difficult for her to absorb. 
H commented on those additional points. They said they had no knowledge of the £1,000
and that, as Az had been liquidated, the new management company V  which had been
created to look after the services of its members  wouldnt have the ability to contact the
previous sales agents. They explained that travel wasnt part of the timeshare product
offering and that the loan agreement would have been emailed to Miss B to sign and she
would not have received any funds as they were paid to Az to purchase the timeshare
product.
Our investigator viewed the CCTV evidence provided by H and she thought Miss B could be
seen to have had the loan terms and conditions explained to her and was asked to sign the
relevant documentation electronically. So, she didnt think there was evidence H needed to
take any additional action.
Miss B didnt agree with the investigator. She insisted shed been told the agreement would
stop after five years. The complaint has therefore been referred to me, an ombudsman, for a
decision.
In August 2022 Oplo acquired Miss Bs account from H and assumed the obligations that H
had in respect of the account and also the investigation of any complaints that flowed from it.
I will therefore refer to Oplo and not to H from this point forward.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Miss B didnt explicitly make a claim to Oplo (then H) under section 75 of the
Consumer Credit Act (1974) or under section 140A of that Act. This service cant usually
consider the merits of new complaints if they havent been made to the business first. On
this occasion, I can see that Oplo (or H) have considered the merits of the issues Miss B
raised and hasnt objected to this service considering the complaint as a whole. And given its
age and the fact Miss B is unrepresented, it seems to me to be in everyones interest if I now
deal with everything. I am, however, issuing a provisional decision to allow both parties the
opportunity to respond to the decision Im currently inclined to make.
Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook to take
into account the relevant, laws and regulations; regulators rules, guidance, and standards;
codes of practice and, when appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is designed to be a quick and informal alternative to the
courts under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA). Given that, my role as an
ombudsman is not to address every single point that has been made. Instead, it is to decide
what is fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, I
am only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points. But I have read all of the
submissions from both sides in full and I keep in mind all of the points that have been made
when I set out my final decision.
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA)
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a certain type of fixed sum
loan, as was the case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of
the CCA says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a 
right to make the same claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's
either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met.
Section 56 of the CCA is also relevant. In broad terms this means that any negotiations
between Miss B and Az or the credit broker are deemed to have been conducted by Az or
the credit broker as an agent of the lender (now Oplo). This includes any representations
made by Az or the credit broker and any other dealings between them.
Section 56 of the CCA is also relevant in the context of section 140A (that looks at thefairness of the relationship between a debtor and creditor arising out of the credit
agreement), as the pre-contractual acts or omissions of Az or the credit broker will be
deemed to be the responsibility of Oplo, and this may be taken into account by a court in
deciding whether an unfair relationship exists between Miss B and Oplo. 
It's not for me to decide the outcome of a claim Miss B may have under sections 75 or 140A
but Im required to take them into account when deciding whether Oplo have been
reasonable in rejecting her claims.
The claim under section 75 of the CCA
If Miss B was given a false statement of fact or law, and if that false statement was a
significant reason why she entered into the agreement I may think the agreement had been
misrepresented to her. In those circumstances I may think Oplo were unreasonable not to
consider and uphold a claim under section 75.
Miss B says she had told Az she didnt want to use points but wanted to pay in sterling. If I
was persuaded Miss B had been told she was paying in sterling I might consider the
agreement had been misrepresented to her. But I think the terms of the finance agreement
were clear. They explained that the loan was being provided to fund timeshare ownership
with Az and they provided a 14 day cooling off period within which Miss B could withdraw
from the finance arrangement. The agent in the CCTV footage explained the membership
was being funded through a loan and described the amount of that loan, the term, and the
repayments. The points basis of the timeshare was clearly explained in the club rules and by
the agent in the video. So, I think it would have been clear to Miss B that she was entering
into an agreement to finance her membership of a timeshare club in which points could be
exchanged for accommodation and experiences.
Im further persuaded that its likely that Miss B was aware she was financing membership of
a points based timeshare product as she has also complained that she had been told she
could sell her points. That seems at odds with the notion that she didnt want to use points.
Miss B says the agreement was misrepresented to her because she found she wasnt able
to sell her points from time to time. Shes explained that after entering the agreement she
was told shed need to apply a year in advance in order to do so. Whilst I understand
Miss Bs testimony, Ive not seen any additional information to corroborate her assertion that
she could sell points. I think shes most likely referring to the ability to rent in the event she
knew she wasnt going to holiday, and, by her own admission  which fits with the evidence
in the CCTV footage  she remembers being told she had to apply for that a year in
advance. I dont think Miss B was therefore provided with a false statement of fact or law on
that basis. 
Miss B also suggests the agent promised her shed be able to go on lots of holidays but that
she subsequently discovered the points available to her would only be enough for one
holiday a year and would cost more than she was promised. Oplo have explained that the
cost of each experience in credits will vary depending on the time of year, period of stay, and
type of accommodation and, on balance, I dont think I have sufficient information to
persuade me that the amount of holidays Miss B would be able to go on with the points she
had available, was misrepresented to her.
Im not therefore persuaded that Oplo have been unreasonable not to consider, or uphold,
the claim under section 75 as I dont think there is sufficient evidence of either a breach of
contract or misrepresentation.
The claim under section 140A of the CCAWas Miss B unaware of the loan, its terms, or conditions?
If Miss B wasnt provided with all the information she needed to make an informed decision I
may think that created an imbalance of knowledge and that there was an unfair relationship.
I think its likely Miss B was made aware that she was entering into a loan and that she was
aware of its terms, as the agent in the CCTV footage explains the membership is funded by
a loan, details the amount repayable, the term, and the instalments, and Miss B confirms she
understands. The agent also checks that Miss B has been provided with the pre contract
credit information that the supplier were obliged to provide to a prospective borrower under a
regulated credit agreement. Miss B confirms she has had a copy of that information and has
had it explained to her.
Whilst it seems that the timeshare product was agreed on a five year, renewable, term, the
terms of the finance agreement that Miss B signed clearly show the term that it is to be
repaid over is 180 months (15 years). I dont think that was ambiguous.
A Welcome Letter was sent to Miss B in August 2019 and explained that Miss B had entered
into a loan and that a direct debit had been established. Miss B didnt complain to the
supplier or to the finance provider until mid-2020 and I think its likely she would have
complained earlier if she didnt believe she had entered into a loan.
Im not therefore persuaded that there is sufficient evidence the terms and conditions of the
loan werent explained to Miss B or that she didnt agree them.
Did any potential payment create an unfair relationship?
Im not sure what the relevance of the £1,000 payment is. Miss B hasnt provided any
evidence it was paid but, even if she had, I cant see how that could fairly be considered to
have created an unfair relationship. It seems to me that any agreement to pay Miss B £1,000
was a separate, unrelated, arrangement between Miss B and the supplier.
Ive been provided CCTV footage of the handover process. In that footage the agent
explains that the agreement is subject to a cashback arrangement and that once the finance
is in place £1,200 will be transferred into the same account Oplo (H then) pay the finance
into. In the absence of any other information about a £1,000 payment it seems that £1,200
may be the money Miss B is referring to, but I cant see there was anything wrong with that
payment. It seems a cash back could only be considered a benefit in those circumstances.
Did Miss B sign the credit agreement?
The finance agreement and the direct debit mandate were electronically signed by Miss B.
Oplo have explained that nobody else would have been able to do that as the instruction to
sign would have been emailed to Miss B. I think thats likely.
Whilst I note Miss B says the signature isnt the same as hers, its invariably the case that an
electronic signature isnt the same as or similar to a signature by hand.
I can see from the CCTV footage that Miss B was asked to electronically sign a number of
documents, including the credit agreement, and did so. I think that reinforces my view that
she did sign the finance agreement and the direct debit mandate authorising payments to be
taken from her account towards the loan.
The lengthy presentation, Miss Bs headache, and her dyslexia.We know it is common that these sales presentations often lasted for a number of hours. Ive
therefore considered whether there is evidence that Miss Bs ability to exercise choice was
significantly impaired by the lengthy presentation, the headache she says she experienced
as a result, and/or her dyslexia and a failure to accommodate it.
Regulation 7 of the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 (CPUT
Regulations) seems to expand on the everyday definition of pressure. At the time of sale,
Regulation 7 stated that a commercial practice was aggressive if, in its factual context and
taking account of all of its features and circumstances, it:
a. significantly impaired or was likely to significantly impair the average consumers
freedom of choice or conduct in relation to the product concerned through the
use of harassment, coercion or undue influence; and
b. caused or was likely to cause the consumer to take a transactional decision they
would not have taken otherwise as a result.
Regulation 7(2) went on to say that consideration must be given to the timing, location,
nature and persistence of the practice. And when thinking about whether undue
influence was applied, Regulation 7(3) said that thought must be given as to whether
the Supplier exploited a position of power in relation to the consumer so as to apply
pressure, even without using or threatening to use physical force, in a way which
significantly [limited] the consumers ability to make an informed decision.
I dont think Ive been provided with sufficient information to suggest Miss B didnt
understand she didnt have to say yes to the agreement or that she didnt understand she
couldnt walk away without entering into it. She was also provided with a 14 day cooling off
period and I think, even with Miss Bs dyslexia in mind, that was sufficient time for her to ask
for clarification, reflect and if necessary, withdraw from the agreement and the loan.
Overall, Im not persuaded that her ability to exercise choice was  or was likely to have
been  significantly impaired contrary to Regulation 7 of the CPUT Regulations.
And as I havent seen enough to suggest that there are any other relevant considerations
that might mean the relationship between Miss B and Oplo was unfair, Im not persuaded
thats the conclusion a court would reach.
Ultimately I havent seen anything to suggest Oplo have been unreasonable when rejecting
Miss Bs claims.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
Oplo accepted my provisional decision and didnt provide any additional comments.
Miss B provided a detailed response. I think Ive covered some of the points Miss B raised in 
that response in sufficient detail in my provisional decision. Its not practical to list everything 
Miss B said here, but I have considered it all, and will comment on what I think are the most 
salient points.
Miss B said that H were negligent in not vetting Az before they dealt with them. Im not 
aware of any duty of care on H to do that.I understand Miss B says she didnt know how to do an electronic signature and wouldnt 
have used her middle name. But I think the middle name would have been generated 
automatically and, as Ive explained, I dont think anybody else would have been able to 
complete the signature as the instruction to sign would have been emailed to her.
Miss B would like H to have contacted the agents who sold her the timeshare but there was 
no obligation on them to do so. She has also suggested that H made it difficult for her to 
withdraw from the agreement within the cooling off period, but Ive not been provided with 
any additional evidence to support that assertion, and I can see Miss Bs right to withdraw 
from the agreement were clearly set out in it.
H and Oplo have an obligation to report Miss Bs performance on her agreement accurately 
to the credit reference agencies. Whilst I have sympathy with Miss Bs situation, I cant see 
that Ive been provided with information that suggests theyve reported anything inaccurately. 
In those circumstances it wouldnt be fair to tell them to change anything. If Miss B is 
struggling to meet her financial commitments she may wish to contact Oplo and discuss the 
matter. Id expect them to be sympathetic and to see what they can do to help Miss B with 
payment arrangements if she can show them that repayment of the debt is causing her 
financial difficulties.
Miss B has also explained that lots of other people have received compensation in respect of 
claims they had against Az. Those cases, as I understand it, were against another bank and 
related to issues with the credit broker not being regulated to broker the finance. Theyre not 
issues that are relevant to Miss Bs case, which Ive considered on its individual merits.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not been provided with any additional information or comments that would lead me to 
change my provisional decision. That provisional decision therefore becomes my final 
decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman