DRN-3492084
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Scotland plc declined his request to convert his mortgage from 
capital and repayment to interest only.
What happened
Mr A initially took his mortgage out on an interest only basis, but later applied to switch it to 
repayment after he received an increase in his income. His mortgage was successfully 
switched to a repayment mortgage.
In April 2021, Mr A contacted Bank of Scotland and asked if he could switch his mortgage to 
interest only as both he and his partner were receiving a reduced income as a result of the 
pandemic. Bank of Scotland explained that in order to switch the mortgage to interest only, 
Mr A would need to meet their lending criteria. Mr A wasnt happy with that as he didnt meet 
the lending criteria, and so he raised a complaint. During the call the banks call handler also 
explored whether there may be other options available that could help Mr A with his 
payments, such as a term extension or a payment arrangement, but Mr A did not want to 
continue the conversation and it was terminated.
Bank of Scotland sent Mr A their final response letter, but they didnt uphold the complaint. 
They said that as a responsible lender, all applications were reviewed equally against their 
criteria in their lending policy. They said they were unable to change their criteria or policy to 
suit individual customers. They also said that they were happy with the service Mr A had 
received during the phone call, and that as the call was terminated early, then Mr A should 
contact them again to see what other support the bank might be able to offer.
Mr A brought his complaint to our service. He explained that his wife has shares that are 
worth the same amount as the mortgage balance, and the property has a low loan to value. 
So he feels the risk to the bank of making the switch is low. He said he originally took out an 
interest only mortgage and so he just wanted to switch the mortgage back to its original 
terms.
Our Investigator looked into Mr As complaint but didnt think Bank of Scotland had acted 
unfairly. He encouraged Mr A to engage with the bank about his financial circumstances as 
there may be other ways in which they could help.
Mr A disagreed with the Investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me to issue a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Mr A did originally take out an interest only mortgage with Bank of Scotland, when he 
changed the mortgage to repayment  that became a new mortgage contract, with new 
terms agreed by both parties. Mr As current mortgage is a repayment mortgage. And to 
make a permanent change to that contract is not as simple as switching the mortgage back 
to the terms that were originally agreed, and have since been superseded.
Nevertheless, Mr A requested the change, and so the bank still needed to give the request 
fair consideration. Bank of Scotland explained to Mr A their lending criteria for switching to 
an interest only mortgage, and unfortunately Mr A didnt meet that criteria. 
Ive considered whether, as Mr A was an existing customer, Bank of Scotland ought to have 
agreed to the request in any case  and whether it was in Mr As best interests for them to 
set aside the lending criteria based on his individual circumstances. But I dont think it was. 
Switching the mortgage to interest only on a permanent basis would have meant that Mr A 
would need a way of repaying the entire capital balance at the end of the mortgage term. 
Mr A says his wife had shares she was willing to use to pay off the mortgage, and there was 
plenty of equity in the property. But Mr As wife was not party to the mortgage, and Im not 
persuaded it would have been in Mr As best interests to rely on either of those potential 
options staying the same until the end of the mortgage term. Im not persuaded he had a 
clear and credible method for repaying the mortgage balance at the end of the term.
I appreciate Mr A was experiencing financial difficulty and so couldnt afford the full monthly 
payments at the time he made the request to switch the mortgage. But when a borrower 
starts to experience difficulties in this way, we would expect the bank to explore concessions 
that would support the borrower in being able to pay as much as they could afford towards 
the mortgage. And what those concessions look like would depend on the borrowers 
particular circumstances. I can see that Bank of Scotland did try and discuss forbearance 
options with Mr A, but he refused to continue that conversation with them at the time.
Its in Mr As best interests to pay what he can afford towards the mortgage in order to pay 
less interest over the term. I dont think it would have been appropriate for the bank to have 
agreed to a permanent change to the mortgages repayment type without having first 
explored other options which may have been more suitable for Mr A, and could have helped 
the mortgage get back on track without the need for a permanent switch. Mr A didnt give the 
bank the opportunity to explore those options at the time. And so Im not persuaded the bank 
have acted unfairly here in the way they treated Mr A.
Im aware that Mr A has not been maintaining the full monthly mortgage payments whilst our 
service has been considering this complaint. Whilst its not my role to give him advice, I 
would encourage him to speak to the bank about what other concessions and options are 
available to him in order to make his payments more affordable. And Id expect the bank to 
give careful consideration to Mr As individual circumstances when looking at what 
appropriate forbearance might be.
But overall, whilst I empathise with Mr As situation, Im not satisfied Bank of Scotland have 
acted unfairly in the way theyve handled his request to switch the mortgage to interest only 
on a permanent basis.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman