DRN-2646820
The complaint
Mr S, on behalf of the estate of his father the late Mr T complains that The Co-operative 
Bank Plc refused to cash travellers cheques. 
What happened
Mr S found travellers cheques to the value of £60 issued by a bank I will call B in his late 
fathers possessions. Mr T held and an account with Co-op and Mr S asked that it cash 
these cheques, but it declined to do so. It explained that it had withdrawn its foreign and 
currency cheque services from January 2018 and had notified customers of this. It said that 
it hadnt issued the cheques and suggested Mr S contact the issuing bank which is located 
overseas. 
Mr S brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He said that it was unfortunate that the 
cheques werent discovered and presented sooner, but he didnt believe the Co-operative 
Bank should have to make an exception to a policy that was legitimately made, 
communicated fairly to its customers some years previously.
Mr S didnt agree and asked to see the letter issued to his father. On receipt of that he 
beloved it to an internal document. He didnt believe his father was made aware of the 
change of policy by the bank.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr S, but I do not consider I can uphold his complaint. I will 
explain why.
The bank stopped taking travellers cheques several years ago and it sent out a lengthy 
document to account holders explaining this and other changes in its terms and conditions. 
That was a commercial decision and one with which I cannot interfere.  Quite simply it was 
entitled to do as it did.
Nor can I say that it didnt issue the note to Mr T. It may be possible that there was some 
oversight and Mr T was missed off the mailing list, but it is also more than likely that the 
letter was received and disposed of. 
The cheques were issued by an overseas bank and Co-op was not responsible for them. 
Understandably Mr S wants his fathers bank to cash them, but as it no longer handles 
travellers cheques it has refused.  It is possible to go to the issuing bank or there may be 
other institutions based in the UK which will assist Mr S, but I cannot direct Co-op to change 
its position.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr T 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman