DRN-4184352
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the service and conflicting information they got from National 
Westminster Bank Plc when they enquired about additional borrowing on their mortgage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have a mortgage with NatWest and a mortgage product whose term was 
ending at the end of November 2022. Mr M contacted a NatWest adviser in advance of this 
happening to enquire about a new product and about borrowing £15,000.00 for home 
improvements. Mr M had lost his previous job in May and started a new job in August and 
was concerned about not being able to show a six-month employment history and enquired 
when he could apply for the additional borrowing. On two occasions Mr M was told that four 
months of pay slips would be sufficient and so believed that he could apply for the additional 
borrowing after 1 December. However, when he did make contact again in early December 
he was told that NatWests policy was to require a six-month history of payslips. Mr M had 
other problems contacting NatWest at the time and was unhappy with the demeanour and 
dress of the adviser who spoke to him in December.
NatWest apologised for the upset and inconvenience caused and offered compensation of 
£250. Our investigator felt that this level of compensation was appropriate. Mr and Mrs M 
disagreed saying that NatWest was not taking the complaint seriously and they were never 
made aware as to why they were misinformed by the initial mortgage adviser about 
NatWests lending criteria.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the file and am sorry to hear of Mrs Ms illness and Im glad to hear the loan 
application has now progressed. Like our investigator I accept that Mr M was misinformed 
about the length of time he would have to be in his new employment before he could apply 
for the additional borrowing. I understand NatWests position is that they have a filtering 
process, and this isnt unusual, whereby there is an initial discussion to determine whether 
the mortgage is affordable. If an adviser considers that it is affordable, the application moves 
along the process. That adviser isnt determining the application and will have a very limited 
brief. I accept those advisers may not be familiar with NatWests other lending criteria - as 
thy have only a limited role -  including the length of time that an applicant is in employment 
before they can apply for further borrowing. The problem with carving up the process 
between advisers is that it leaves room for misunderstanding particularly if an adviser 
answers a question about a part of the policy they are unfamiliar with. Thats what I believe 
happened here. The result was that Mr M was misinformed about when he could apply for 
the additional borrowing and was disappointed to learn in December to learn that they would 
have to wait some further months. I believe that this would have been particularly 
disappointing as Mr and Mrs M were hoping for a positive outcome before Christmas as a 
boost for Mrs M.
That said, I believe that NatWest followed its policy correctly in respect of the employment 
criteria and the number of payslips it required. But I accept that Mr M was misinformed in 
August and to that extent I uphold this complaint. Mr and Mrs M are entitled to compensation 
for their distress and inconvenience. I accept that their hopes were built up and then dashed 
but a few moths later they got the additional loan. So, Im of the view that compensation of 
£250 is appropriate for their distress and inconvenience. I note that NatWest has already 
offered that sum although, as Mr and Mrs M were dissatisfied with NatWests investigation 
Im not entirely clear from the file whether it has been paid. If it hasnt been paid Ill require 
NatWest to now pay it.  
My final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay Mr and Mrs M £250 and I 
think that this offer is fair in the circumstances. My decision is that if the bank hasnt already 
paid that to Mr and Mrs M it should do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman