DRN-2874404
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy because she feels that Santander UK Plc havent provided her with 
the standard of customer service that she expects regarding a variety of issues.
What happened
Mrs A reported a disputed debit card payment on her current account. Because of this, 
Santander cancelled her debit card. Mrs A had believed that in reporting the payment, 
the payment would be stopped, but that she would still be able to use her debit card. Mrs 
A states that when Santander cancelled the debit card, she was unable to make 
essential purchases such as food.
Mrs A also experienced a significant amount of difficult when she tried to access her 
telephone banking. This was because her voice identification protocol had been 
cancelled and she was instead being asked to provide other information which she had 
not had to provide previously.
Mrs A was also frustrated when she tried to set up her usual payments on her account, 
because on each occasion Santander was insisting that these be set up as new bill 
payments which meant that she was being asked additional security questions that 
werent necessary.
Mrs A is also upset that she received letters and correspondence from Santander 
in standard size font, instead of a larger font size as shed repeatedly requested.
Finally, when Mrs A contacted Santander by telephone to discuss her ongoing concerns 
she feels that Santanders staff were rude to her and didnt provide her with updates in a 
timely manner or as promised.
Santander looked at Mrs As complaint points. They reviewed several calls between Mrs A 
and Santander staff, and while they were satisfied that their representatives had maintained 
the standards of service that Santander aspires to on most occasions, there was one 
instance where they accepted that their member of staff had used language which may 
have caused Mrs A offense.
Considering this, and because it wasnt properly explained to Mrs A that her debit card 
would be cancelled when she reported the disputed payment, Santander apologised to Mrs 
A and made a payment to Mrs A of £75 as compensation for the trouble and upset that she 
may have incurred.
Santander also acknowledged that several items of correspondence had been sent to Mrs 
A in the incorrect font size. Santander apologised to Mrs A for this and advised that they 
had taken steps to ensure that the error wouldnt be repeated moving forwards. Santander 
also made a payment of a further £100 to Mrs A for the distress and inconvenience this 
matter had caused.
Santander noted that they had sent Mrs A her mobile banking credentials, but that Mrs A 
had informed them that she had thrown these in the bin. Because of the potential risk 
arising from this, Santander had cancelled the credentials and had sent new ones to Mrs A 
 although these had been sent in the incorrect font. Santander apologised to Mrs A for this 
and issued compensation to Mrs A of a further £130.
Finally, Santander looked into concerns raised by Mrs A about not receiving a call back 
from their executive teams office, and they apologised to Mrs A that this had not taken 
place when promised.
Mrs A didnt feel that Santanders responses went far enough, so she referred her 
complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that 
the responses that Santander had issued to Mr A represented a fair and reasonable 
resolution to Mrs As complaint and they didnt feel that Santander should be asked to do 
anything more. Because of this, our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint.
Mrs A remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A has made several detailed submissions to this service outlining the reasons for her 
complaint and responding to the view of this complaint put forward by our investigator. Id 
like to thank Mrs A for these submissions, and I hope that she wont consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Rather, in line with this 
services role as a quick and informal dispute resolution service, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint and I havent responded to each individual 
point that Mrs A had made.
As such, if Mrs A notes that I havent responded to a specific point that shes made, it 
shouldnt be taken by Mrs A that I havent considered this point  I can confirm that Ive 
read and considered all the submissions provided by both Mrs A and Santander  but 
rather that I have considered her point but that I havent addressed it in this letter as I dont 
feel that it has a material impact on my decision in this instance.
Having reviewed all the information available to me on this complaint, I find that Ive 
reached the same outcome as our investigator here, and the essentially the same reasons. 
I will address each of Mrs As complaint points individually below.
Debit card cancellation
Santander dont dispute that Mrs A was given incorrect information about whether her 
debit card would be cancelled when she reported the disputed debit card transaction on 
her account and have apologised to Mrs A for this and made a payment to her of £75 by 
way of compensation.
Ive listened to the recorded telephone calls where Mrs A was given the incorrect 
information and Im satisfied that Santanders response to Mrs A regarding this matter, 
including the payment of compensation, is fair and reasonable.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered fair by one party not 
being considered as fair by someone else, but the £75 that Santander have already paid to 
Mr A does feel fair to me in this instance, and so I wont by instructing them to make any further payment beyond this amount.
Telephone banking access, additional security questions, and new payment set up
Like all financial businesses, Santander have a responsibility to ensure that reasonable 
levels of security are in place to protect their customers accounts from potential 
unauthorised access. In this instance, Santander have explained that they implemented 
additional levels of security when Mrs A reported that she hadnt received the second set 
of online banking credentials that theyd issued.
This seems reasonable to me, and I can confirm that its in-line with what this service 
would have expected Santander to do in these circumstances. So, while I can appreciate 
that Mrs A may have incurred a degree of inconvenience as a result of Santanders 
actions here, its difficult for me to consider censuring Santander for implementing the 
additional level of security that they did, and as such I wont be upholding this aspect of 
Mrs As complaint.
Similarly, while I can understand how Mrs A might be frustrated by having to set up 
previously existing recurring account payments as new payments, Im satisfied that 
Santanders explanation for this  that it is a security requirement which is initiated every 
time a customer changes the payment reference number so as to ensure that the 
payment request is made by a genuine account holder and isnt an instance of attempted 
unauthorised account access  makes sense and is implemented in Mrs As best 
interests as a reasonable measure designed to protect the security of her accounts.
Finally, Im aware that Santander have provided Mrs A with a single point of telephone 
contact regarding her accounts. While I understand that this naturally entails limitations, 
given that Mrs A is dependent on her point of contact being available, Im satisfied that this 
is an appropriate course of action taken by Santander, given Mrs As previous telephone 
banking difficulties and experiences, and that its been implemented by Santander with Mrs 
As best interests in mind.
Correspondence font
This point has been dealt with in a linked complaint  reference ................  and so I will 
not consider this point here.
Standard of customer service
Im aware that Mrs A feels that several Santander staff have been rude to her. However, 
having listened to a number of recorded telephone calls between Mrs A and Santander, 
Im unable to come to the same conclusion as Mrs A here  beyond that singular instance 
referred to previously for which Santander have already apologised and issued 
compensation for.
I understand that Mrs A has been engaged on several long telephone calls with 
Santander, and I can understand her frustration in this regard. But having listened to the 
calls, while there were instances where the conversation between Mrs A and Santander 
became strained, I dont feel that at any point Santanders staff were being rude to Mrs A 
and Im satisfied that they consistently attempted to assist Mrs A with the difficulties that 
she was experiencing.
Its also notable from listening to these calls that Mrs A, on several occasions, expressed 
dissatisfaction that Santander werent responding to her complaints as quickly as she 
would like. But a business generally has eight weeks to respond to a complaint raised by a customer, and in all instances Mrs A was seeking a quicker resolution to her complaints 
than the eight weeks allowed, and so I dont feel it would be fair to censure Santander for 
not responding to Mrs A in these circumstances  given that the eight weeks given to 
them to respond had not elapsed.
Summary
Mrs A has raised several complaint points here, and Im aware from her ongoing 
correspondence with this service that she doesnt feel that Santander have 
adequately responded to her complaints and that she continues to have issues.
However, having reviewed the information available to me, I am satisfied that the 
responses that Santander have already issued to Mrs A  including the payments of 
compensation referred to previously  do represent a fair and reasonable response to this 
complaint. And Im further aware that Santander remain in communication with Mrs A and 
seek to assist her in resolving any lingering issues that she may have regarding the points 
considered in this letter.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs A was wanting here, but it follows from this 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Santander to take any further action at 
this time. I hope that Mrs A can understand, given everything that Ive explained above, 
why I have made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
Paul Cooper
 
Ombudsman