DRN-4233140
The complaint
Mrs D complains, via her representative, that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham 
Midshires has prevented her from accessing the funds in her account or any interest. She 
wants access to the balance in the account plus accrued interest.
What happened
Mrs D opened a High Interest Savings Account with Birmingham Midshires (BM) in 1994. In 
February 2023 she discovered the passbook at her home, after it had been misplaced for 
many years, and contacted BM to recover the balance. The passbook showed a balance of 
£8,523.39 from October 1994, described as the transfer of a balance from another account.
Mrs D said the passbook states that it "..must be presented when withdrawals are required". 
Mrs D provided BM with the details of the account from the passbook, and said it had not 
been closed. BM responded in February 2023 to say that it only retained records for 10 
years after an account has been closed and there was no record of the account. 
Mrs D complained to BM that it hadnt provided any evidence of closure, only supposition. 
Following a review with Mrs Ds representative, BM confirmed that it had no records of the 
account, and is only required to keep records of closed accounts for six years and not from 
29 years ago. BM said Its likely the account was closed, and this could have been by phone, 
or letter if a signature can be verified. It said that if Mrs D still had an account, it wouldve 
written to her since 1994 with general mailings and statements. BM said that even though 
Mrs Ds passbook states its needed for transactions, in 2004/2005 its branches closed, and 
its terms and conditions changed so that this was no longer required. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said there is not enough 
evidence to suggest that the account remains open, and the balance hasnt been paid to Mrs 
D. She said its unfortunate that due to the passage of time that there are no records to 
confirm this. The investigator said BM explained as the account cant be located, the funds 
couldve been sent to an account held by Mrs D, or a cheque could have been issued.
Mrs D disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsman review her complaint. 
Her representative said if the account had been closed no notification has ever been 
received by her. Her representative said, there is indisputable documentary evidence 
available which corroborates the fact that the account remains open, namely the existence of 
the passbook and the credit balance to which it relates and that it has not been closed. He 
said the passbook states that withdrawals are not permitted without its presentation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the six-and three-year rule, which can be found in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys handbook, DISP 2.8. Mrs D found the passbook in 2023 and so I consider that 
she raised her complaint within three years from the date she became aware she had cause 
for complaint. And this means that I am able, under the time limits provided, to consider the 
merits of this complaint.
I have looked at Mrs Ds complaint in common with the many other complaints we receive 
concerning historic accounts. Ive considered whether BM has acted within the terms and 
conditions of the account and its procedures, and looked to see if it has treated Mrs D fairly. 
BM said it has carried out searches but is unable to locate information about the existence of 
the account, its closure or the correspondence it said it would have sent Mrs D. This is 
unfortunate as it would help Mrs D to know what had happened and she is unhappy with 
BMs conclusion and justification. 
Ive looked at the available evidence to reach a conclusion about the complaint. Mrs Ds 
representative says that her account passbook, is indisputable documentary evidence 
available which corroborates the fact that the account remains open. I think he is almost 
correct, in that the passbook clearly demonstrates the existence of the account, but not that 
the account remains open. BMs terms and conditions for the account changed when it 
closed branches almost 20 years ago and now state that accounts can be closed without a 
passbook. I have found this to be common practice with banks and building societies that 
previously relied on passbooks but now allow more modern means of transacting. 
Unfortunately for Mrs D, it follows that possession of a passbook no longer indicates that an 
account is open.  
BM has speculated that the account may have been closed on Mrs Ds request by letter of 
phone call. BM said the lack of account statements, or any other correspondence sent to 
Mrs D indicates the account was closed and added that the balance could have been paid to 
her or transferred. But Mrs Ds representative states, The stark reality is that BM have no 
evidence at all to support a view as to what did happen. This may be correct, but then 
neither does Mrs D, and as she is bringing the complaint the onus is on her to show its 
merits. 
Mrs Ds representative said Mrs D overlooked the existence of the account opened in 1994 
until she discovered the passbook in 2023. The representative also states that, if the 
account had been closed no notification of such has ever been received by her. The 
certainty of the second statement is hard to reconcile with the first. 
BM said it would have written to Mrs D during this time and provided her with statements of 
her account. I think the lack of any correspondence is an indication the account is closed, 
rather than proof. I dont find it unreasonable that BM no longer holds records of an account 
that may have been closed more than six years, and possibly in 1994. 
In conclusion, there is a lack of evidence to show that Mrs Ds account with BM remains 
open and I cant uphold her complaint. The lack of evidence is unhelpful to Mrs D, but 
possession of her passbook doesnt mean the account remains open. 
Mrs Ds representatives will be aware that by rejecting this decision legal action remains 
open to Mrs D in pursuit of her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Andrew FraserOmbudsman