DRN-3404138
The complaint
Mr P complains about National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) blocking a transaction he 
tried to make on his debit card.
 
Mr P is represented by Mrs P, but Ive referred mostly to him in this decision as the account 
in question is a sole account in his name. 
What happened
Mr P and Mrs P called NatWest to notify them Mr P intended to make a large payment. He 
wanted to let the bank know about this payment in advance to ensure there was no limit on 
the size of the payment he could make. 
When Mr Ps payment was attempted, it was blocked by NatWest. Mr P phoned the bank but 
was unable to pass the security questions, so NatWest asked him to go to a branch with 
identification. The payment was eventually made successfully the same day. 
Mr P complained to NatWest saying he was disappointed his payment had been stopped 
after hed notified them of his intention to make it and theyd agreed to note this on his 
account. He was also unhappy about having to attend a branch and how long he had to 
spend in the branch before the payment was made successfully. This had a significant 
impact on Mr P because he suffers from a number of serious medical conditions which mean 
he is essentially housebound. 
NatWest responded to say they hadnt acted incorrectly by blocking Mr Ps payment and that 
although Mr P had notified them he was going to make the payment, this wouldnt mean it 
couldnt be picked up for fraud checks. But NatWest accepted that the service Mr P had 
received couldve been better and offered him a total of £200 in recognition of this. 
Mr P wasnt happy with the banks response so referred his complaint to our service. An 
Investigator considered his concerns. He said, in summary, he though NatWest hadnt acted 
unfairly by stopping Mr Ps payment and that the £200 was fair in respect of the service Mr P 
had received. 
Mr P didnt accept the Investigators view. He said NatWest had told him the payment would 
go through so they werent entitled to stop it. 
As Mr P didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear how unwell Mr P is. Its clear from what hes told us his health makes it 
difficult to be away from home for extended periods of time so I can see why what happened 
here was worrying for him. 
All banks have fraud prevention measures in place. These are designed to protect 
customers and the bank. Its for financial businesses to decide how their fraud prevention 
measures operate and which transactions will be subject to further checks. And the terms 
and conditions of Mr Ps account set out the circumstances in which payments can be 
stopped by the bank. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr Ps payment to be stopped 
for security checks. 
Ive listened to the call Mr and Mrs P had with NatWest. Unfortunately, the recording of this 
call is incomplete  in that only NatWests side of the conversation can be heard. During the 
conversation, NatWest say that they will add a note to Mr Ps account to say the intended 
transaction is genuine and then the payment should all go through. 
Since then, NatWest has said in their final response letter and to our service that although 
notes of this type can be made on accounts, this doesnt stop transactions being picked up 
by their fraud prevention measures. I think they shouldve highlighted this to Mr P during the 
phone call  but based on the recording Ive got, they didnt. 
So I think NatWest gave Mr P the wrong impression during his phone call with them when 
they said the payment should all go through.  And although I cant hear Mr and Mrs Ps 
side of the conversation, I dont think this matters as its clear enough what NatWest was 
referring to when they said this. 
After Mr Ps transaction was declined, he called the bank. But wasnt able to pass the 
security questions. Ive listened to this call. Im satisfied that Mr P couldnt answer the 
security questions the bank asked him. In these circumstances, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Mr P to be referred to a branch so the fraud block could be removed. And it 
seems likely Mr P would always have been referred to a branch because hes told us he isnt 
familiar with transactions on the account as Mrs P handles all the banking. 
Turning to Mr Ps experience in the branch, Mr P says he was in the branch a long time, his 
condition noticeably deteriorating and was offered no help by the branch. Hes unhappy that 
the branch didnt offer him a glass of water or use of a private room. Mr P told us he didnt 
specifically tell the branch how unwell he was feeling at the time, although they were aware 
of his general health conditions. 
A statement from the member of staff who served Mr P agrees it did take a long time to get 
through to the fraud team to have the block removed. It seems likely this is because of the 
number of people trying to contact that team  rather than a mistake by the branch staff. The 
branch staff said a private room wasnt available because of the size of the branch and Mr P 
didnt appear to be visibly unwell. Despite this, NatWest have accepted  on a benefit of 
doubt basis  the service Mr P received couldve been better and offered him £200 in 
respect of this. Mr P doesnt think this is enough in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience he was caused.
Ive thought carefully about everything thats happened. I know Mr P feels strongly that 
NatWest should never have blocked his transaction but Ive already explained why I dont 
think that was unreasonable in the circumstances. The branch visit was necessary because 
Mr P couldnt answer the required security questions. I understand that was inconvenient  
not least because of Mr Ps health - but again I dont think NatWest made a mistake by 
referring Mr P to a branch. So I dont think NatWest need to pay compensation for these 
issues. 
NatWest should have made it clear when Mr P first called them that the transaction could still 
be blocked even though he had told them about it in advance. If they had told Mr P this, the transaction could still have been blocked and Mr P would likely always have ended up 
needing to go to the branch for the reasons Ive explained. 
NatWest have accepted the service Mr P received couldve been better. So in recognition of 
the misleading information Mr P was given over the phone and the service he received in the 
branch, I find £200 is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman