DRN-2919934
The complaint
Ms S has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) has rejected her claim under 
her HomeCare policy when a faulty pump caused damage to her home. She says that its 
Terms and Conditions are misleading.
What happened
Ms Ss complaint arises following what she describes as a massive water leak through her 
ceiling.  Apart from the effects of the leak, this left her without electricity as water was flowing 
through the light sockets. She contacted BG at around 1.30pm on 28 October 2020 and was 
told that an engineer would arrive by around 6.00pm. At around 6.00pm BG sent Ms S a text 
to say that its engineer had been called to another emergency and would be with her by 
10.00pm. As no BG engineer arrived, Ms S called an emergency plumber who arrived within 
the hour. The leak had been caused by a faulty hot water recirculating pump. A BG engineer 
didnt arrive until the next day.
BG has said that the faulty hot water recirculating pump isnt covered by her HomeCare 
policy. Ms S has a HomeCare Two policy that doesnt include cover for plumbing issues.
Ms S wasnt satisfied with BGs response to her complaint, so she referred it to this service. 
Our investigators view was that Ms S wasnt covered for plumbing problems, and the pump 
that caused the leak was part of the plumbing system. She didnt consider that the policy 
terms are misleading.
Ms S doesnt accept our investigators view. She maintains that the pump that caused the 
leak is a part of the hot water system, and that the hot water system and central heating are 
covered by the level of cover that she has. Shes asked that her complaint be considered by 
an ombudsman. Its therefore been passed to me to make a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Ms Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
BGs HomeCare policy allows customers to choose from different levels of cover. Ms S had 
chosen HomeCare Two cover, which covers her for central heating problems but doesnt 
cover her for plumbing problems. In my view, the first question then is whether or not this 
particular pump was part of the central heating system, in which case the pump would be 
covered, or whether it was part of the plumbing system, in which case it wouldnt be covered.
Having been provided with photos of the hot water tank and the pumps connected to it, BG 
was able to identify that the pipework to the pump responsible for the leak is 15mm and the 
pipe is off the top of the cylinder. BG says its not connected to the central heating system. 
Its function is to ensure consistency of hot water for taps, baths and showers. So once the 
location of the pump had been clarified with the help of photos provided by Ms S, it became 
clear that it forms part of the plumbing rather than the heating system. It therefore falls 
outside the level of cover that Ms S has. 
Ms Ss complaint is that BGs Terms and Conditions are unclear and misleading. She says 
this is illustrated by the fact that BG has had to seek advice from its own experts including its 
national technical helpdesk as to whether or not this particular pump is covered or not. This 
point was clarified, though, when photos of its location were provided, which made its 
function clear.
Ms S has referred to wording on page 11 of the HomeCare policy booklet under the heading 
Central heating. This states What is covered and then includes All repairs to the heat 
and hot water system on your property (my emphasis underlined). I think it is this wording 
that has caused some confusion. 
Ms S argues that this wording means that she has cover for her hot water system without 
any distinction between that part of the hot water system that provides her heating (ie the 
central heating pump and radiators) and that which provides hot water for her taps, bath and 
shower. And because this wording is in a section headed Central Heating, for which she 
has cover, she maintains that she is covered for this pump as it is part of her hot water 
system.
However in my view, the reference to the hot water system quoted above must relate to that 
part of the hot water system that provides heating, and not to that part of the hot water 
system that covers taps, baths and showers. In my view this is covered by the Plumbing 
section of the policy. I agree that this could be clearer so as not to cause the confusion that it 
has in Ms Ss case, but I think the heading Central heating provides clarity that what is 
stated below it relates only to the central heating hot water system.
On page 12, there is the summary of what the Plumbing cover includes. It includes your hot 
and cold water pipes between your internal stopcock up to, and including your taps and 
garden taps and the flexible pipes to your kitchen appliances, and other examples are 
given. The pump that caused the damage to Ms Ss home was located on a pipe from her 
hot water cylinder to her taps. 
I consider that Ms S is right in saying that it should be clear from policy wording what a 
customer can expect when they take out a policy. Clear wording, understandable to a lay 
person, will enable a customer to make an informed decision.
 
In my view the diagram on pages 6 and 7 of the HomeCare policy booklet provides as clear 
an explanation as possible as to the extent of the coverage of each section of the policy. 
Clearly this cant be comprehensive as customers may have introduced additional items, but 
in my view it provides a comprehensible guide to what is covered by each part of the policy. 
BG has said that if Ms Ss pump had been located on the diagram, it would be found
between the hot water cylinder and the hot water taps, so on the purple (plumbing) line and 
not on the green (central heating) line in the diagram. 
A policy to be manageable cant be expected to mention every possible item or contingency, 
and I think it reasonable that if Ms S were particularly concerned as to whether this pump 
would be covered if she only had cover for central heating, she couldve sought clarification 
from BG. She could then have increased her level of cover if shed been told that the pump 
was only covered if she had cover for plumbing.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Ms Ss complaint as I dont consider that 
British Gas Insurance Limiteds terms and conditions are unclear or misleading. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman