DRN-3862410
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Miss E says HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her the PPI.
Background
Miss E had a PPI policy added to her account in January 1999 some years after the credit 
card account had been opened. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. But HSBC did offer to pay back some 
of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and profit share 
Miss E paid.
Miss E didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion for the following reasons: 
Miss E re-iterated that she did not know she had PPI and wanted HSBC to provide 
documentation to support its claim that she knew about it and agreed to it. 
Miss E pointed out that publicity around PPI came about around 2008 and, by this 
time, she was not using the account so could not have checked her statements for 
PPI. 
She added that while the account was open past 2008, she was not using it, so the 
balance was likely zero. 
She also had PPI on a loan but as soon as she realised it was on the account; she 
had the PPI removed. She feels this proves she would not have taken PPI had she 
known about it.
She also felt HSBC should refund all the commission she paid back to her. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Es complaint and Ill explain why. 
HSBC says Miss Es credit card account was opened some time before 1999 without PPI. 
PPI was added onto her account in January 1999  and would have appeared on her credit 
card statements. So it feels the optional nature of the PPI would have been clear to her and 
HSBC wouldnt have added PPI on to her account without her explicit consent. Miss E says 
she didnt know she had PPI and didnt agree to it. HSBC no longer has any sales 
paperwork from the time of the sale, which is not surprising given how long ago it took place. 
But where there is limited information about a sale, I must decide what I think is more likely 
based on the evidence available and the wider circumstances. 
As Miss E had the credit card account for some time without PPI, I think she would have 
known that PPI was a separate and optional product  in the sense she would have been 
aware that she could have the credit card without PPI. Additionally, generally our approach 
is that if a consumer hadnt agreed to take the PPI, we would have expected them to have 
questioned the payments on their credit card statements when they appeared. Ive noted 
Miss Es comments that by the time she became aware of the concerns over PPI more 
generally around 2008, she was no longer using the credit card account so she couldnt 
have checked the statements at this time. However, HSBC says the PPI would have been 
on her statements from January 1999. And if she didnt recognise what these payments 
were, we would generally have expected her to have asked HSBC about them.  
I have carefully considered Miss Es concerns regarding HSBCs lack of documentation, but I 
dont think its unreasonable that HSBC cannot provide documentation form 1999  
businesses arent expected to keep records indefinitely. 
I would like to re-assure Miss E that I believe she doesnt recall taking out PPI. I can see she 
has spent a considerable amount of time and effort to show she genuinely does not recall 
taking out PPI, that she believes she wouldnt have done so had she been given the choice 
and that she could not have discovered she had it when concerns around PPI came to light 
around 2008. But 1999 (when PPI was added to her account) was a long time ago and 
memories can fade over time which I have to bear in mind. In order for me to uphold her 
complaint on this basis, Id have to be persuaded that HSBC applied PPI to her account 
without her consent or knowledge  and I havent seen sufficient evidence in this case to 
enable me to do that. 
Overall, while I sympathise with Miss Es position, and I appreciate her strength of feeling 
regarding this issue, I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that the optional 
nature of the PPI was not clear to Miss E or that she didnt agree it. 
Both HSBC and Miss E say HSBC didnt recommend the PPI to Miss E - so it didnt have to 
check that the PPI was right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Miss E enough clear 
and timely information so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Miss E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Ive found that she likely chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for her - for example Miss E was eligible for 
the policy and she wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. 
I understand Miss E says she had at least 12 months sick pay provided by her employer 
(although she hasnt been able to evidence this) and she also says she would have been 
entitled to redundancy pay. From our experience, its extremely rare for employees to be 
given such extensive sick pay, however, Im satisfied given her position and length of service 
she would have been entitled to some sick pay. However, this policy would have paid out on 
top of any sick pay she had for up to 12 months, so I still think it could have been useful to 
her if shed been off work due to illness or injury. It would also have paid out for up to 12 
months for unemployment. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this, I dont think Miss E would 
have declined the cover had HSBC done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Miss E would have still taken out PPI to cover. The policy was 
sufficiently close to what was likely presented to her, and I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.This means that HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss E. But 
HSBC has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss E because: 
When the policy was sold, HSBC expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss E 
about that. Because HSBC didnt tell Miss E, that was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
I understand Miss E believes she should get all of the commission she paid back. However, 
as our adjudicator explained, HSBCs offer is in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) guidance. And Ive concluded that the PPI was not mis-sold. HSBCs offer therefore 
leaves Miss E with the policy Ive concluded she would still have taken out if HSBC had done 
everything it should have done, but with lower commission and profit share levels. So I 
consider that HSBCs offer to pay an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in line 
with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision 
My final decision is that the PPI was not mis-sold  HSBC UK Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss E. But HSBC UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to 
Miss E any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
It should pay that redress now if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman