DRN-2732019
The complaint
Mr Ms complained that esure Insurance Limited (esure) didnt handle providing him with a 
courtesy car properly  so he was inconvenienced.
What happened
Mr M held a car insurance policy with esure. His car was damaged when someone drove 
into the back of it. He made a claim under the policy.
Esure arranged for repairs to be done. But they werent completed properly, even though Mr 
M returned the car twice for rectification work. The car was examined by an independent 
engineer. The engineer identified what needed to be rectified.
Mr M agreed to let esure have rectification work done for the third time. And esure arranged 
for a car hire company (which Ill call R) to provide Mr M with a car while the work was done. 
A date for the work was agreed.
On that day, Mr Ms car was collected early in the morning, before a hire car was delivered.  
Mr M chased up delivery. R arrived with the hire car around 3 hours after Mr Ms had been 
taken away.
Rs representative started to take Mr M through the paperwork. This included asking Mr M 
for information he didnt feel was relevant to the hire  so he declined to give it. Mr M says 
hed been provided with other cars without giving this information. So he went into his house 
to call esure to check the position. While he was inside, Rs representative took the hire car 
away.
Esure explained to Mr M that theyd arranged for R to provide him with a car  but they had 
no control over the information R required before theyd hand over a vehicle. They 
suggested either that Mr M provide R with the information they wanted. Or that he try and 
obtain a hire car from another company. They said theyd contribute the amount it cost them 
to hire a car from R. Mr M tried to hire a car  but he couldnt do so at short notice. So he 
couldnt go to work that day.
Mr M brought his complaint to us. He told us that hed made arrangements with esure, not a 
third party, so he thought they were responsible for what had happened  and for the 
inconvenience hed been caused when he was left without a car.
Our investigator considered the complaint. She noted that Mr M had had problems with the 
repairs to his car. But hed already been compensated for that. And she said that esure 
werent responsible for the questions R had asked Mr M  so she couldnt say esure were 
responsible for Mr M being left without a car.
I agreed with our investigator that Mr Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld  but for different 
reasons.  So I made a provisional decision.  I said that a hire car had been delivered to Mr 
M.  But it wasnt handed over because hed declined to provide the information R required.  
That had been his choice.  So I couldnt say esure were responsible for him being 
inconvenienced after R arrived to deliver the car.
Id asked both parties for information about the circumstances of the hire car arrangement.  
Mr M told me hed told esure that he didnt want to be inconvenienced  but not that hed be 
inconvenienced if the car wasnt delivered first thing.  Esure had no records that any specific 
information about a delivery time was given or received.  So I didnt think esure needed to 
compensate Mr M for the car not being delivered until around 12.30pm.
Esure didnt comment on my provisional decision.  Mr M replied, saying that he thought not 
being inconvenienced meant he should have received a hire car at the same time.  And he 
said he had a contract with esure to provide a car  which he thought theyd breached.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
I understand Mr Ms frustration.  The situation hes complained about arose on the day his 
car was taken to be repaired for the fourth time  following what hed have understandably 
viewed as repeated failures by esure to deal with repairs to his car properly.  Im in no doubt 
it was very inconvenient to him to have had the matter dragged out so long.
But the only complaint Im looking at is the inconvenience Mr M was caused by not having a 
car on the day his was taken for repairs  not the whole history of the matter.  Thats been 
looked into by esure, who have compensated Mr M for that.
And  as I said in my provisional decision  nothing Ive seen has suggested that esure 
knew it would be inconvenient to Mr M if a car wasnt delivered first thing.  I asked Mr M if 
hed made that clear to esure. In his reply, Mr M repeated that hed told esure he shouldnt 
be inconvenienced  not that he told them what would inconvenience him. 
Nor did I hear Mr M say in his conversations with esure on the day that he wasnt satisfied 
with the time the car was brought to him.  His concern was with the information R had 
requested before handing the hire car over to him.
Mr Ms suggested in his comments on my provisional decision that anyone would think it was 
inconvenient to be without a car for any time at all.  But I dont agree thats the case, 
because individual circumstances differ  and not everyone may need their car in 
traditional working hours.  So, in the absence of information telling esure Mr M had a 
particular need, I dont think its reasonable to say they should have inferred one.
And Ive taken into account whats reasonable when thinking about Mr Ms comment that 
esure breached a contract theyd made with him.  Esure agreed that Mr M would be provided 
with a car while his was repaired.  Insurers dont have their own cars, but source them from 
companies like R when theyre needed.
A car was supplied  albeit later than Mr M wouldve liked  in accordance with what esure 
told Mr M.  The reason R didnt leave it with him was because Mr M wouldnt give them the 
information they require from drivers using their cars.
Mr M was entitled to make that choice.  But that doesnt mean esure breached any 
agreement they made with him.  As I said in my provisional decision, Ive seen they tried to 
sort the issue out for him by offering to pay for a car from another company.  And they said 
theyd raise Mr Ms concerns with R  but that they didnt expect to be able to resolve the 
issue to Mr Ms satisfaction on that day.
I think that was a reasonable attempt by esure to resolve Mr Ms concerns.  I appreciate it 
didnt satisfy Mr M.  But to do any more theyd have had to get their supplier to change the suppliers conditions for hire.  And I dont think its reasonable to say they should have done 
that  or anything more than theyve already done to resolve Mr Ms complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about esure Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman