DRN-3335986
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclay Bank UK PLC wrongly recorded adverse data on his credit files. 
He says he was refused credit because of this. Mr P asks that Barclays offers him credit on 
good terms or pays compensation.
What happened
Mr P has a buy to let mortgage with Barclays. He took payment deferrals in 2020. At the end 
of the payment deferrals Mr P asked Barclays to set up a new direct debit. Barclays made 
errors which meant a payment didnt go through and delayed the direct debit being in place. 
As a result payments for October and November 2020 were missed. Mr P made up the 
missed payments in December 2020.
In January 2021 Mr P contacted Barclays. Hed found out that Barclays had recorded the 
missed payments on his credit file. He says it took until May 2021 for Barclays to accept it 
made an error and another two to three weeks before his credit file was corrected. 
Mr P says during this time the negative data meant he couldnt refinance another buy to let 
mortgage or take out a new interest rate product. He couldnt refinance credit card debt or 
even take out a phone contract. He says this caused him financial loss as he was left paying 
a higher interest rate on his buy to let mortgage and credit card accounts. 
Our investigator said Mr P had other adverse data on his credit files. He said Mr P didnt 
have evidence that his loan applications were turned down only because of the data 
recorded by Barclays. Our investigator said the £475 offered by Barclays was fair.
Mr P didnt agree, saying that £475 compensation isnt sufficient. Mr P also said that 
Barclays offered £1,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays made an error which resulted in missed payments being recorded on Mr Ps credit 
file in October and November 2020. Mr Ps credit file wasnt corrected until May 2021. 
Theres no dispute that Barclays made an error. What I need to consider is whether Barclays 
did enough to put matters right.
Mr P says he has financial loss because the adverse data stopped him taking out credit. He 
was unable to open a zero interest rate credit card account to re-finance credit card debt. He 
couldnt re-finance a buy to let mortgage or take out a new interest rate product due. He 
couldnt raise funds to clear his debts and one of his accounts defaulted.
Mr P says Barclays should pay compensation for his financial loss. I think this would only be 
fair if I find that the missed payments wrongly recorded by Barclays was the only or the main 
cause of this loss. I dont think I can fairly reach that conclusion.
Lenders dont usually provide detailed reasons for their lending decisions. I appreciate its 
difficult for Mr P to provide evidence that his credit applications were declined due to the 
adverse data recorded by Barclays. I should say here that where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances. 
Ive considered how likely it is that Mr P was declined credit due to the missed payments 
recorded by Barclays on his credit file. Mr Ps credit file shows missed/late payments or 
arrears for: 
a credit card account in November and December 2020
a credit card account from October 2020 to June 2021
a mortgage account from June 2020 to January 2021
a mortgage account from June to September 2020
Mr P had other adverse data on his credit file, including arrears on two other mortgage 
accounts. I think its unlikely the only or the main reason he was declined further credit was 
because of the missed payments recorded by Barclays for October and November 2020. 
Mr P would also have had to meet lenders affordability tests before being offered new debt. 
This might have been difficult if Mr P was unable to meet his existing commitments. I dont 
think I can fairly find that Mr P would have been offered credit on better terms if Barclays 
hadnt recorded the missed payments.
It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Barclays to pay compensation 
for Mr Ps credit costs or to require it to provide lower cost credit to him.
Theres no doubt that this caused Mr P upset and inconvenience. He had to call Barclays a 
number of times before it agreed to remove the adverse data. The overall time taken to do 
this was too long. However, while Mr P was in a difficult situation, I think a lot of this was due 
to factors outside Barclays control  such as Mr Ps difficulty in meeting payments for his 
other mortgages and credit card accounts. I think the £475 paid by Barclays is fair and 
reasonable compensation for the additional upset and inconvenience caused by its error. 
Mr P says Barclays offered £1,000. Ive listened to recordings of Mr Ps calls about his 
complaint and I didnt hear Barclays offer this. Barclays says it offered £475 and this is the 
amount offered in its final response letter. I havent seen evidence that Barclays offered Mr P 
£1,000 and think this is most likely a misunderstanding.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I find the compensation 
paid by Barclays Bank UK PLC is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman