DRN-1273556
 
The complaint
Miss A complains about poor service from Investec Bank PLC in connection with payments 
to her accounts. 
What happened
In October 2018 Miss A made a foreign currency transfer to an account she holds with 
Investec. The money appeared to be credited to her account. 
Miss A wanted to make some further transfers in March 2019. She discovered the 
transaction she'd made in October had been reversed by Investec, and the money returned 
to her broker.
Investec said it would look into what had happened. In the meantime, Miss A said 
she wanted Investec to monitor her other transactions and confirm to her that the money had 
been successfully received.
Investec identified that it had never received the money for the October transaction. It had 
made enquiries with partner banks involved in the transfer process, but didn't get a 
response. Investec reversed the credit showing on Miss A's account on 7 November 2018. It 
accepted that at that point it should've contacted Miss A to let her know what had happened.
Investec offered to waive the annual fee Miss A paid on her account, in recognition that its 
service hadn't been good enough. It also said it would consider backdating interest if she 
wanted to reinvest the money. Investec also offered to send a gift to Miss A.
Miss A didn't consider Investec's offer was good enough. She didn't want to reinvest the 
money with the bank, but considered Investec should cover lost interest. 
There had been further problems with the transfers Miss A made in March 2019. So she had 
lost all confidence in the bank. As such, Miss A considered Investec should pay 
compensation in addition to the fee waiver.
Our investigator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. He accepted that some 
of Investec's service had fallen short of the standard Miss A could've reasonably expected. 
But he was satisfied that the compensation offered by Investec was fair and reasonable in 
light of the mistakes that had been made. He wasn't persuaded that the bank needed to do 
anything else.
Miss A didn't agree with the investigator's conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities - that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
When Miss A realised the transfer she'd made in October 2018 had been reversed by 
Investec, she contacted the bank to find out what had happened. She says Investec told her 
it had tried to contact her in early November 2018 when it hadn't received the money. 
Investec later accepted it hadn't contacted Miss A as it said it had.
Miss A considers Investec lied to her about its attempts to contact her, which she finds 
unacceptable. 
In light of the problems with the October transfer, Miss A asked Investec to confirm safe 
receipt of the transfers she made in March. She says Investec agreed, but failed to provide 
the required confirmation. Miss A considered this was unacceptable, keeping in mind the 
problems she'd already experienced.
Miss A doesn't consider the waiver of Investec's annual fee is compensation. She is seeking 
payment in addition to the fee waiver.
I've thought carefully about everything Miss A has said. I'm aware that she considers 
Investec lied to her about its attempts to contact her in early November 2018. But from what 
I've seen, on balance I think it's more likely that Investec was mistaken about what it thought 
it had done to try to contact her. There isn't enough evidence for me to safely say that 
Investec deliberately lied to Miss A. 
But in any event, Investec eventually accepted that it hadnt contacted Miss A as it said it 
had. It also accepted that if it had made contact with her in November 2018, its likely Miss 
A wouldve tracked down her money sooner than she did.
So Ive thought about whether Investecs compensation offer is fair and reasonable, in light 
of its failure to contact Miss A in November 2018.
Investec reversed the credit on Miss As account because it hadnt received the money from 
its partner banks involved in the transfer. Its provided evidence to suggest it made enquiries 
with the sending partner banks, but Investec didnt receive a reply. 
I can see why Miss A might consider Investec shouldve done more. But from the 
evidence provided, Im not persuaded that Investec was responsible for the money failing to 
arrive. It says it made enquiries with the sending bank, which I consider was reasonable in 
its capacity as the receiving bank. But I dont consider it was required to do more.
Investec failed to contact Miss A as it shouldve done when the money didn't arrive, and it 
agreed to waive her annual fee in recognition of this. I understand why Miss A doesnt 
consider the fee waiver is proper compensation, but Im satisfied that the banks offer is fair 
and reasonable. As Im not persuaded that Investec was responsible for the money failing to 
reach Miss As account, I dont consider it needs to pay any additional compensation or lost 
interest. 
Given the problems with the October 2018 transaction, I can see why Miss A wanted 
confirmation that the March 2019 transfers had been successfully received by Investec. So I 
can also understand her frustration and disappointment when Investec failed to provide the 
service it had agreed to.Investec wrongly told Miss A it had received a transfer which didnt arrive until around three 
weeks later. And it failed to confirm it had successfully received two other transfers.
I havent seen any evidence that Miss A suffered financial loss as a result of these failings by 
Investec. So again, Ive considered whether its compensation offer is enough in light of 
the poor service she received.
Ive taken into account awards by this service in complaints with issues of a similar nature. 
Having done so, I consider the £500 fee waiver is fair and reasonable in light of the March 
2019 service issues.
Overall, Im satisfied that the compensation offered by Investec is fair and reasonable. So I 
wont be asking the bank to do anything else on this occasion.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman