DRN-3222126
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the administration of their mortgage by Topaz Finance Limited 
trading as Heliodor Mortgages after it was transferred from another lender.
What happened
IIn 2019, Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage was transferred from another lender to Heliodor. They 
said they have experienced a number of problems since the transfer:
They had no arrears with the other lender  but Heliodor keeps telling them their 
mortgage is in arrears by different amounts.
Heliodor incorrectly said they had missed payments and underpaid - 27 payments were 
due to Heliodor and that is what they have paid.
The previous lender told them theyd received redress and they only needed to pay 
£200.
Heliodor tried to change their interest rate.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept what the investigator said. They said their bank account showed 
they had made payments in May and August 2020, only a couple of days late, which they 
couldnt control.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Arrears
The investigator provided a detailed explanation of what she considered happened in her 
letters dated 24 November 2021 and 14 April 2022. I think those letters set out an accurate 
summary of what happened and is supported by the evidence that both Mr and Mrs M and 
Heliodor have provided to us.
In March 2018, the previous lender told Mr and Mrs M they could make a reduced payment 
because they were going to receive redress. I dont consider this is what caused the arrears. 
Rather, the arrears accrued because later monthly payments were not made in full or at all. 
The full amount due was also not paid in August 2019. That meant the account was in 
arrears when it was transferred from the previous lender to Heliodor. I havent seen any 
evidence that the balance was wrong when it was transferred.
The evidence I have shows that the account fell further into arrears once the account was 
transferred to Heliodor, including missed payments in November 2019 and May and August 
2020. 
Mr and Mrs M said that they paid the amount they were told to pay in August 2019 and they 
made the full payments for May and August 2020.
In their original complaint, Mr and Mrs M only said they were told to pay £200 in March 2018. 
I have addressed that above and accept what Mr and Mrs M said. Until their response to the 
investigator they had not said that they were told by the previous lender to make a reduced 
payment in August 2019. If they had been, I might have expected Mr and Mrs M to raise that 
point earlier. Nevertheless, Heliodor has told us that it has no record of any redress being 
applied at the time in question. And there is no other evidence of any redress being paid at 
that time. I consider it less likely, on balance, that Mr and Mrs M were told they could make a 
reduced payment in August 2019. It follows that the payment they made in August 2019 (for 
the payment due in July 2019) was less than required. 
While Mr and Mrs M made a payment on 29 November 2019  that was for the October 
2019 payment. Ive not seen any evidence that they paid the amount that was due on 30 
November 2019. That explains why, on the face of it, they may have made the correct 
number of payments to Heliodor. But in fact, one of those payments was for October 2019, 
when the mortgage was still with the previous lender.  
We have evidence that the May 2020 payment was paid in June 2020. But Mr and Mrs Ms 
proof of payments does not include a payment for August 2020  and that is supported by 
the evidence from Heliodor. 
I understand why Mr and Mrs M are confused by the position of the account. But after careful 
cosndieration I cant see there has been any error by Heliodor in administering the 
mortgage.
Interest rate
Heliodor said that it didnt try to change the interest rate on Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage. 
Rather, it gave Mr and Mrs M incorrect information during a phone call. Im satisfied that 
information was incorrect  and it corrected it soon afterwards. I consider Heliodors apology 
is sufficient in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman