DRN-2731996
The complaint
Mrs A complains that furniture she bought with finance provided by Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc 
(Hitachi) did not conform to her contract with the supplier.
What happened
In June 2019 Mrs A agreed to buy from a supplier, D, a number of pieces of furniture and
other products. Her order included six dining chairs at a total cost of £1,410 and a mattress
at a cost of £595. A discount of 7.26% was applied to the entire order. The quotation also
included four temporary chairs at no charge.
The order was financed in part by a loan of £5,580 from Hitachi. The loan was arranged by D
and was repayable over four years by monthly payments of £116.25.
Mrs As contract with D included the following terms:
2.1 Except where the Company agrees to be bound by some other contractual terms 
and conditions or agrees to an amendment to these Terms and Conditions all Offers 
and Contracts are deemed to incorporate and are made upon these Terms and 
Conditions to the exclusion of all other terms and conditions express or implied except 
only to the extent that the law requires otherwise. These Terms and Conditions are the 
only and all the applicable terms and conditions.2.2 These Terms and Conditions shall 
prevail over any terms or conditions stipulated or referred to by the Customer in any 
order letter or other document or communication oral or written or otherwise. 2.3 Any 
agreement by the Company to be bound by some other contractual terms and 
conditions or that some other terms and conditions shall prevail or to amendments to 
these Terms and Conditions must be made in writing and signed by a director of the 
Company or its secretary.
5.1 The Company will use its reasonable endeavours to deliver the goods and to
supply the services on the date or dates stated in the Offer or on or before such later
date or dates requested by the Customer and accepted by the Company but the
Company will not be liable for any loss or damage of any kind caused either directly or
indirectly by any delay in meeting delivery dates, nor will the Customer be entitled to
repudiate the Contract due to delay in delivery. 5.2 Our lead times are approximately 8-
12 weeks from placement of an order and receipt of payment/deposit although this is a
guide only and may depend on the volume of orders and the production capacity
available

20.2 If the items ordered are not from stock, we will have commissioned a supplier to 
make them specifically for you. Unless we receive your written notification to cancel 
within 7 working days of you receiving our first order acknowledgment  we regret to 
advise you that we will have to charge you a cancellation fee. 20.3 Cancellation fees: 
Once 7 working days have passed from receiving your order acknowledgment and you 
decide to cancel your order, a cancellation fee of 50% of the order value will be charged 
and the balance if paid would be refunded
Mrs As order also recorded that delivery would take approximately 10-12 weeks. She signed
a statement saying she understood that this was an approximate guide only.
It appears that the manufacturer initially sent the wrong mattress to D. The correct mattress
could not therefore be delivered to Mrs A until a few weeks after the expected delivery date.
Mrs A thought this was unacceptable and declined to take delivery of it.
In addition, Mrs A says that she discussed the chairs at the point of sale and said that she
wanted different legs and for the chairs to be higher. Those that were delivered were not
therefore what she had agreed on and she refused to take delivery.
D offered Mrs A £50 in compensation for the delay in delivering the mattress, but Mrs A was
not happy with that and complained about what had happened to Hitachi and then to this
service. Hitachi said that Mrs A could cancel the order for the chairs and the mattress and
that, if she did that, it would deduct half their cost  just over £1,000  from the amount due
under the finance agreement.
Our investigator took a slightly different approach. He didnt accept that the delay in
delivering  or attempting to deliver  the mattress was unreasonable. He did accept
however that D had agreed to changes in the specification of the chairs. He thought a fair
remedy would be for Hitachi to deduct the full price of the chairs, but that Mrs A should
contribute 25% of the payments made to account for the use of the temporary chairs.
Hitachi accepted the investigators view, which it calculated would lead to reduction of
£983.47 from the loan  that is, a figure very similar to Hitachis own offer. Mrs A didnt
however accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and, because my findings differed in some respects from those of the investigator, 
issued a provisional decision. 
I acknowledged that, because Mrs As contract with D was financed under arrangements 
that D had with Hitachi, it was equally liable to her for any claim she might have against D for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation. That was the effect in this case of section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
I accepted that D was unable initially to deliver the correct mattress but was satisfied that it 
was able to do so a few weeks later. I did not consider that to be a breach of Mrs As 
contract with D. The contract was clear that delivery dates were estimates only and were not 
guaranteed. That was perfectly normal in a contract of this type. Even if I had taken a 
different view on that point, late delivery does not usually entitle a buyer to refuse delivery 
and seek a refund. 
As far as the chairs were concerned, I noted that I had seen footage of Mrs A refusing to 
take delivery of them. She said that D had agreed to supply chairs with different legs, but 
that was not apparent from the order confirmation; the changes were not documented at all, 
despite the wording of clause 2 of the terms and conditions. 
There was no persuasive evidence that there was a wardrobe drawer missing. 
In conclusion, I was satisfied that D had offered to deliver the mattress, that the chairs were 
those that Mrs A ordered and that the wardrobe order was complete. If items could no longer 
be delivered because Mrs A had declined to take delivery, she would be entitled to a 50% 
reduction of their price. That would however be a consequence of Mrs As cancellation of 
part of the order, not of anything Hitachi had done wrong.  
Mrs A did not accept my provisional conclusions. She said that the mattress still had not been delivered, the chairs were not those she ordered and that the wardrobe drawer was 
missing. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In responding to my provisional decision, Mrs A has largely repeated what she had already 
argued, but provided no new evidence for me to consider.  
The investigator found that D had attempted to deliver the mattress a few weeks after the 
expected delivery date. I agreed with that finding, but did not believe that this was a breach 
of contract on the part of D. Indeed, if anything, it was an indication that D was seeking to 
fulfil the contract by delivering the mattress. On a number of occasions, however, Mrs A said 
that she wanted to cancel the order for the mattress and the chairs and receive a full refund.  
In respect of the chairs, Mrs A says that those delivered and which she refused to take are 
not the chairs she chose at the showroom. They do however appear to be those described 
on the purchase order and, therefore, those that she agreed to buy. 
There is no reference to a wardrobe drawer in the purchase order and no separate pricing 
for it, even though Mrs A says it was an additional charge and that it was not a regular 
drawer. I do not believe I can fairly conclude that it was included in the purchase order.  
For these reasons, I have not changed my view from that set out in my provisional decision. I 
remain of the view that it would be fair of Hitachi to apply a reduction in the loan of 50% of 
the price of the chairs and mattress. Since, however, that resolution is in line with the 
cancellation provisions of the sale agreement, I do not intend to make an award requiring 
Hitachi to do so.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to do anything more to 
resolve Mrs As complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 7 May 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman