DRN-3370651
The complaint
Mr G complains that he was mis-sold a finance agreement when he acquired a car by way of 
a Conditional Sale Agreement with Santander Consumer (UK) plc.
What happened
Mr G acquired a car by way of a Conditional Sale Agreement with Santander. The 
agreement was taken out in April 2017 and was for four years. He says he contacted 
Santander in March 2021 because he believed his agreement was a Personal Contract 
Purchase (PCP) agreement and he had various options available to him at the end of the 
term. Santander informed him that his agreement was a Conditional Sale agreement. That 
meant he had to pay the balloon payment set out in his agreement - £2,304 at the end of 
the term.
Mr G says that when he entered into the agreement in 2017 the salesperson told him it 
was a PCP agreement and the balloon payment could be re-financed at the end of the 
term.
Mr G says he made clear to the salesperson what his personal circumstances were and 
he would never have agreed to a finance arrangement where hed be required to repay the 
balloon payment in full at the end of the term. He also says that at the time when the 
agreement was signed the salesperson told him everything is as discussed  so just 
sign.
Mr G says a Conditional Sale Agreement was never discussed or explained to him. He has 
provided a copy of a Demands and Needs Questionnaire and Statement which he was 
given at the time and the only type of finance agreement mentioned on that document is a 
PCP. He complained to Santander.
Santander investigated his complaint. It said that the Demands and Needs Questionnaire 
applied to insurance products and wasnt relevant to a finance agreement. The finance 
agreement was not an insurance product. It also suggested that the Demands and Needs 
Questionnaire may have related to a different finance agreement. It said that the 
dealership had a robust sales process. And it pointed out that the agreement Mr G had 
signed was clear in its terms.
Santander said the dealership had offered, as a gesture of goodwill, to purchase Mr Gs car 
and allow him to settle the agreement at any time up to the date when the agreement was 
due to expire. This was subject to the mileage and condition of the car being acceptable to 
it. Santander also said that under the agreement Mr G had the right to voluntarily terminate 
the agreement. It didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr G didnt agree. He complained to our service. Our investigator looked into his complaint. 
He thought that although the Demands and Needs document referred to a PCP, the 
agreement which Mr G had signed and which was legally binding was clear. It was 
described as a Conditional Sale Agreement and set out the fact that a balloon payment was 
required at the end. So, he wasnt persuaded that thered been a misrepresentation.
Our investigator also looked at what the dealer had offered to do. It had offered to buy 
the car back as a gesture of goodwill. And, under the agreement, Mr G also had the 
option to hand the car back without having to pay the balloon payment. So, our 
investigator thought that Mr G hadnt been disadvantaged as a result of what had 
happened.
Mr G didnt agree. So, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under s.56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) a finance provider (in 
this case, Santander) is liable for what is said by a credit broker or a supplier 
(where theres a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement) before the consumer 
takes out the agreement. S.56 does apply to a conditional sale agreement. 
So, it is relevant to my consideration of this complaint.
Mr G says that before he took out the agreement the salesperson at the 
dealership told him his agreement was a PCP agreement and he says he 
was told this meant he could refinance the balloon payment at the end of the 
agreement. He says he relied on this statement and wouldnt have entered 
the agreement had he not been told this.
Ive looked at the documentation thats been provided by both Mr G and 
Santander. There is a Demands and Needs document dated 3 April 2017 
and a signed Conditional Sale Agreement.
The Demands and Needs document was completed in relation to an 
insurance product that was offered to Mr G at the time. But, it does refer to 
that insurance being provided in respect of a finance agreement which is 
described as a PCP. Having looked at the document, I am satisfied that Mr 
G had discussions with the salesperson about a PCP.
Ive looked at Santanders website to see what it says about PCP 
agreements. The website describes the key features of a PCP and the three 
options that are available at the end of the PCP. The three options are:
-Pay the Guaranteed Future Value (GFV)* if you want to retain 
the car;
-Return the car with nothing more to pay (subject to condition 
and mileage); or
-Renew the car  choose another car using any excess part 
exchange value above  the optional final payment towards your 
deposit.
*Sometimes referred to as a balloon payment
So, for a PCP agreement there was no option to refinance the balloon 
payment.
The website states that following an accepted application Santander will fulfil 
the PCP as either a Conditional Sale Agreement or a Fixed Sum Loan Agreement. So, where a PCP application was accepted those were the only 
types of finance agreement that could be offered.
I asked Santander to comment about this. It says there is a separate type 
of finance a customer can opt for called a Personal Contract Purchase. 
Under this type of finance, the final lump sum is optional.
Having looked at the website and the documentation, Im satisfied on 
balance that there was an inconsistency between the Demands and Needs 
document and the Conditional Sale Agreement. I say this because it was the 
case that with a PCP agreement the final lump sum was optional. Ill 
comment further below about what I think this meant for Mr G and whether 
hes been disadvantaged because of this inconsistency.
Ive thought about what Mr G has said about what the salesperson told him. 
He says he was told that the balloon payment could be refinanced at the 
end of the term. He says this was an oral representation and it was 
something he relied upon. He says that given his circumstances, he would 
never have entered into an agreement where he was required to finance a 
balloon payment at the end of the term.
So, Mr G is confirming he was told there was a balloon payment required 
under his agreement. But, he says the salesperson told him he could 
refinance the balloon payment.
There is no documentary evidence to support what Mr G has said here. And, 
there is nothing in the agreement to indicate that there was an option to 
refinance the balloon payment. That doesnt mean that Mr G couldnt have 
sought to refinance the balloon payment with other finance providers at the 
end of the term. But any such refinancing wasnt included as an option under 
the agreement with Santander.
Under the PCP agreement that Santander has referred to, the balloon 
payment wouldve been optional  but that also wouldve meant the car 
couldnt have been retained by Mr G. If he wanted to retain the car he 
wouldve had to pay a sum in respect of the GFV. The PCP agreement 
wouldnt have included an option to refinance the GFV. So, I dont think that 
even if he had entered into a PCP agreement, he wouldve been able to 
refinance the balloon payment.
Ive noted that Mr G was given a copy of the agreement and if the option to 
refinance the balloon payment was something he thought was important, I 
wouldve expected him to seek further confirmation of it when it wasnt 
specified in the agreement.
Having considered everything, Im not currently persuaded, on balance 
theres enough evidence to support what hes said about being told he would 
have the option, under the finance agreement, to refinance the balloon 
payment at the end of the four year term. And although I can see that there 
is an inconsistency between the Demands and Needs document and the 
type of agreement he signed, Im not satisfied, on balance that theres 
enough evidence to support what hes told us about the salesperson 
informing him he could refinance the balloon payment. So, my provisional 
view is that there wasnt a false statement of fact made by the salesperson in the dealership. Because of that Im not currently persuaded, on balance, 
that theres been a misrepresentation or that the agreement was mis-sold.
My provisional decision is that I dont require Santander to have to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that I do not intend to 
uphold this complaint about Santander Consumer (UK) plc.
Santander responded to my provisional decision. It said it didnt have anything further to 
add.
Mr G also responded to my provisional decision. He didnt agree with the provisional 
decision. He made the following comments:
Our investigator had said Mr G wasnt disadvantaged because of what happened. 
Mr G said this was only the case if he chose to hand the car back. It didnt apply 
where he chose to retain the car. Mr G wanted to have that option available to him.
The Demands and Needs document referred to a PCP. The agreement Mr G took 
out was not a PCP. It followed that the agreement he had taken out had never 
been discussed with him. 
The Demands and Needs document related to an insurance product. This meant 
an insurance product was sold to him against an agreement which did not exist. If 
he had wished to use the insurance it wouldve been void.
He was misled by the salesperson and how the agreement was described to him. 
The salesperson had misdescribed the agreement. Under s 56 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 Santander was liable for what the salesperson had said.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered each of Mr Gs comments, but I havent changed my view about 
how this complaint should be resolved. Ill explain why.
Under s.56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) a finance provider (in this case, 
Santander) is liable for what is said by a credit broker or a supplier (where theres a debtor- 
creditor-supplier agreement) before the consumer takes out the agreement. S.56 does apply 
to a conditional sale agreement. So, it was relevant to my consideration of this complaint. 
And, when reaching my decision, I did take into account what Mr G told us about the 
conversation with the salesperson. I also took into account the information on the Demands 
and Needs document which Mr G told us was completed at the time.
In his response to my provisional decision, Mr G said the Demands and Needs document 
indicates that he took out an insurance product against an agreement which did not exist. 
I asked Mr G to provide more details about the insurance product which he says he took out. 
Hes now provided further information: 
- a Used Vehicle Order Form which he signed on 27 March 2017. There is a 
reference on this document to Finance  being provided by a different finance provider over a 48 month period. This form refers to the price being £6000 less a Part 
Exchange amount of £150. The estimated delivery date is 31 March 2017.
- another undated Used Vehicle Order Form, for the same vehicle, where the total 
net price is also £6000 but the Part Exchange amount is £0. This document says 
Finance  OTHER 48 months. The estimated delivery date is 21 April 2017.
- an invoice for delivery of the car dated 5 April 2017 which states the net price was 
£6000 plus an amount of £300 for VRI Used.
- an Insurance Schedule and policy document for Combined GAP Insurance. The 
cover commenced on 7 April 2017 and the total premium was £300. Mr G signed this 
document on 10 April 2017. There is nothing in the policy to indicate the type of 
finance agreement it relates to.
This paperwork indicates there had been discussion with the salesperson on several dates. 
But the agreement with Santander and the Demands and Needs document are both signed 
and dated 3 April 2017. The vehicle was delivered on 5 April 2017 and the insurance cover 
commenced on 7 April 2017. So, having looked at the dates on these documents, Im 
persuaded, on balance, that the discussion about the finance agreement and the insurance 
took place at the same time and that these two documents were related to each other.
In my provisional decision, I noted an inconsistency between the information on the 
Demands and Needs document and the Conditional Sale Agreement itself. The Demands 
and Needs document referred to a PCP rather than a Conditional Sale Agreement. Mr G 
says this demonstrates that the agreement was misrepresented to him. He says he was 
aware a balloon payment was required at the end of the agreement if he wished to retain 
the car. But, he told us the salesperson told him he could refinance this payment. He says 
that was a misrepresentation.
As I said in my provisional decision, I havent been provided with any documentary evidence 
to support what Mr G told us here about refinancing of the balloon payment. And, it is the 
case that even if hed taken out a PCP agreement, he wouldve had to make a payment (the 
GFV payment), if his decision at the end of the agreement was to retain the car. There is 
nothing to indicate that, even with a PCP agreement, there was an option to refinance the 
GFV payment. In his response to the provisional decision, Mr G hasnt commented on this.  
Having considered everything again, although I know it will disappoint Mr G, I havent 
changed my view that the finance agreement was not misrepresented. And, in these 
circumstances, I dont require Santander to do anything further to resolve this dispute.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Santander Consumer (UK) 
plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman