DRN-2738682
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) got their details 
wrong, meaning they didnt receive paper statements on their joint account for over a year. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C hold a joint current account with Nationwide. In March 2019, they each went to 
branch to update their address as theyd moved to a new house. Nationwide correctly 
updated the address on Mr Cs profile, but typed the house number incorrectly on Mrs Cs 
profile. As she was account holder one, statements were set to be sent to the address on 
her profile. A no trace was put on the account, preventing further postal statements being 
sent from May 2019.
In March 2020, Mr C called and explained they hadnt been receiving statements for some 
time. Nationwide told him the addresses didnt match, and advised that Mrs C should visit a 
branch to correct this. It also explained that statements had been blocked from being sent in 
May 2019. It said that, once Mrs C corrected her address, it could send an interim statement 
for the period in which statements werent being produced.
The address was updated in June 2020. From then on, paper statements were sent to the 
correct address. Nationwide also paid £150 compensation and explained the typing error.
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs C referred the matter to our service. They 
explained they still hadnt received their statements for March 2019 to June 2020. Our 
investigator thought the compensation was fair. She also said the missed statements werent 
available due to not being generated, and that they hadnt been requested within the 
complaint.
At Mr and Mrs Cs request, the case was looked at by another investigator. She found 
Nationwide had generated an interim statement for the missed period, and sent them the 
missing statements. They queried why they hadnt been notified about the no trace placed 
on the account. The investigator explained this was in case other details were also incorrect, 
and as a prompt for them to get in touch. Overall, she thought that providing the statements 
and paying £150 compensation fairly resolved the complaint.
Mr and Mrs C have asked for an ombudsmans decision. Theyre unhappy they were asked 
to go to branch when the error was uncovered in March 2020, causing a further delay. They 
say Nationwide has wasted their time and money, so they want to be compensated. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not increase the compensation. Ill explain why. 
Its not in dispute that Nationwide got the address wrong. Its paid £150 compensation for 
this. The key question here is whether that fairly reflects the impact of its error. 
The situation was understandably worrying for Mr and Mrs C. They didnt receive postal 
statements for a long time. When Mr C called about this in March 2020, Nationwide did spot 
the error and tell him how to fix this  i.e. by having Mrs C go to branch to verify the correct 
address. I understand why Nationwide needed to ensure it verified the address correctly 
following the error, and why its security process prevented it from notifying the customers 
directly about the no trace. But all this clearly caused them inconvenience.  
Theres also a lack of clarity around when/whether the missed statements were sent. Ive 
heard a call from September 2020 in which Mr C specifically chased these up. It sounds as 
though Nationwide arranged for them to be sent at that point. Yet it seems they werent 
received. Nationwide provided us with the missing statements during our investigation, which 
weve now sent Mr and Mrs C. So they have now received the missing records. But Ive 
considered the impact of this delay when deciding whether the compensation is fair. 
In thinking about the overall impact of this error, Im mindful that the earliest record of Mr or 
Mrs C contacting Nationwide about this issue is March 2020  around a year after they 
stopped receiving statements. During that call, Nationwide confirmed that statements had 
been stopped in May 2019. I think this would have alleviated some of their worry about the 
risk of someone else receiving their statements over such a long period of time  although I 
appreciate the subsequent final response could have been clearer on this point. 
There is an expectation on customers to mitigate their losses when things go wrong. Mr and 
Mrs C could have contacted Nationwide earlier about the statements if they needed the 
information sooner or were worried. But Nationwide still holds responsibility for the error.  
Overall, its clear the error caused Mr and Mrs C distress and inconvenience. Now theyve 
received their statements, Im satisfied £150 compensation is reasonable. I cant see that 
there has been any direct financial loss. And I think £150 compensation fairly reflects the 
avoidable impact Nationwides error had on them. So, whilst I understand their frustrations, 
and realise this will be disappointing for them, Im not awarding further compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Nationwide Building Society has 
already fairly resolved this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman