DRN-3129147
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Madison CF UK Limited (118 118 Money) lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mrs B was given a fixed term loan by 118 118 Money. She took the loan out on 26 
November 2013 for £2000 to be repaid over 2 years at a monthly repayment of £160.33.
Mrs B has an amount left outstanding to repay to a third party.
Mrs Bs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the
checks 118 118 Money had done before agreeing the loan had been sufficient. He also felt 
after looking at what 118 118 Money would have had in front of it, that it made a fair lending 
decision. So, he didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Mrs B, through her representative didnt agree with our investigator.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mrs B accepts my decision it 
is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
. Weve set out our approach to
unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website and Ive kept this in mind while
deciding Mrs Bs complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Mrs Bs complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice.
The Office of Fair Trading (OFT) was the regulator when Mrs B borrowed from 118 118 
Money. The relevant rules and guidance set out by the OFT in its Irresponsible Lending 
Guidance (ILG) said that before agreeing credit it needed to check that Mrs B could afford to 
meet her repayments in a sustainable manner. This meant Mrs B being able to meet her 
repayments out of her normal income without having to go without or borrow further. Ive set 
out some of the relevant guidance below for ease.
ILG Paragraph 4.2 stated:
Whatever means and sources of information creditors employ as part of an assessment of
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit sought being
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than
solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower being able to repay the credit in question.
Paragraph 4.3 stated:
The OFT regards in a sustainable manner in this context as meaning credit that can be
repaid by the borrower:
without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing problem
indebtedness
over the life of the credit agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within a
reasonable period of time
out of income and/or available savings, without having to realise security or assets.
And Paragraph 4.4 described undue difficulty:
The OFT would regard without undue difficulty in this context as meaning the borrower
being able to make repayments (in the absence of changes in personal circumstances that
were not reasonably foreseeable at the time the credit was granted):
while also meeting other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable outgoings
and
without having to borrow further to meet these repayments.
Paragraph 4.26 gave an example of irresponsible lending as Granting an application for
credit when, on the basis of an affordability assessment, it is known, or reasonably ought to
be suspected, that the credit is likely to be unsustainable.
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks 118 118 Money needed to carry out 
in order to reasonably assess whether or not Mrs B would be able to meet her repayments
sustainably. But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This
suggests that the same checks might not be appropriate for all borrowers, or for the same
borrower in all circumstances. In general, Id expect a lender to seek more assurance,
potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
- the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an
extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mrs Bs case, I have considered the
following questions:
- did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mrs Bs application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the credit in a
sustainable way? And, if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks
have shown?
- did 118 118 Money make a fair lending decision?
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
118 118 Money gathered some information from Mrs B before it agreed to the loan. It asked 
her for her monthly income and then verified this amount using an online verification tool. It 
then asked her questions about expenditure. It finally then carried out a credit search to 
check against any existing credit commitments.Mrs B was entering into a significant commitment with 118 118 Money. She was agreeing to 
make monthly repayments for a period of two years. So, I think it is right that 118 118 Money 
wanted to gather, and independently check (regarding her income and through the credit 
search), some detailed information about Mrs Bs financial circumstances before it agreed to 
lend to her. I think that the checks it did achieved that aim. I think on balance its checks were 
proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. So, Ive looked at the information
118 118 Money gathered from Mrs B to check whether I agree it was appropriate for her to 
be given the loan.
I can see that 118 118 Money had worked out Mrs B had enough disposable income to be 
able to comfortably afford the repayments. This was early on in the lending relationship 
between the parties and the credit search results wouldnt have shown any concerns to 118 
118 Money from what I have seen. From the information it gathered, I think it would have 
been apparent to 118 118 Money that the loan was affordable and there was nothing that it 
would have had in front of it that would have shown it she was struggling to manage her 
finances.
So, overall, I agree with our investigator. I dont think 118 118 Moneys proportionate checks 
would have suggested that Mrs B would have problems repaying this loan. So, I dont think 
118 118 Money was wrong to give the loan to Mrs B. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman