DRN-1272624
 
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy Admiral Insurance Company Limited settled a third party claim made on his 
car insurance policy on a fault basis. Hes also unhappy with how Admiral handled his claim 
and with its failure to get CCTV footage of the accident.
What happened
Mr R was involved in an accident in a car park in April 2019. He says he was reversing out of 
a supermarket parking space when the third party, travelling at speed, hit him.
Mr R didnt claim on his car insurance. But, a little while later, the third party did. When 
Admiral notified Mr R of the claim, he told the call handler the accident mightve been caught 
on CCTV. And the following day he gave Admiral details of who to get the footage from. But 
Admiral didnt request it for around another week and, by this time, the footage was no 
longer available. 
Admiral told Mr R it would be dealing with the claim as a fault claim because the accident 
happened as he was reversing out of a parking space. Mr R disputed this and said the third 
party was speeding and the CCTV wouldve shown this.
So Mr R complained to Admiral. It didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint about how it decided 
liability. But Admiral agreed it hadnt requested the CCTV footage quickly enough. To 
apologise for letting Mr R down on this its paid him £75 in compensation. 
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr R complained to us. The investigator who looked at Mr Rs 
complaint thought Admiral had acted reasonably. Mr R disagrees and so his complaint has 
come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. I know Mr R feels strongly 
about his complaint and so my decision will be a disappointment. But I hope the reasons I 
give help him to understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
Mr Rs car insurance policy says Admiral can conduct the defence or settlement of any claim 
on his behalf. This is a standard provision in all car insurance policies. But we expect 
insurers to act fairly and reasonably in reaching decisions about liability. My role here isnt to 
decide who was at fault for the accident. Its to look at whether Admiral acted fairly and 
reasonably in reaching its decision in Mr Rs case. 
So Ive looked at how Admiral made its decision. I can see Mr R gave Admiral his detailed 
version of events and Admiral considered this. From the evidence Ive got, it doesnt seem 
the third party gave Admiral its version. Nor were there any independent witnesses. And, of 
course, unfortunately, any CCTV footage that mightve shown the accident is no longer 
available. 
Admiral says it decided that, since Mr R was reversing out of a parking space and the third 
party was already driving along the road, the third party would be treated as having the right 
of way. Admiral says it considered the likely view of the courts in respect of liability for the 
accident. And it says it also looked at the viability of settling the claim out of court, as 
opposed to incurring additional costs by allowing it to go to court. It says that, even if CCTV 
had shown the third party was speeding, it would still have had some liability because of the 
circumstances of the accident.
From all the evidence Ive seen, I think Admirals decision to accept liability was in line with 
Mr Rs policy and took into account both all the available evidence and standard legal 
principles. For these reasons, I think its decision to settle Mr Rs claim as a fault claim was 
fair and reasonable.
Like our investigator, I think its unfortunate Admiral didnt get the CCTV footage in time. And 
like her, I think the compensation of £75 its paid Mr R not getting it is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that the compensation Admiral Insurance Company Limited has already paid 
Mr R of £75 is fair. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman