DRN-3184743
The complaint
Mr P complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services (VWFS) has acted unreasonably in relation to the final payment on his hire 
purchase agreement with it.
What happened
In December 2016 Mr P entered into a hire purchase agreement with VWFS for the supply of 
a car. Under the terms of that agreement Mr P and VWFS agreed that he would hire the car 
from it. They also agreed that if he wanted to purchase the car at the end of the agreement, 
(and he was not obliged to do this), he would make a final payment of £11,851.25. This final 
payment is known as a balloon payment. 
Mr P complains that the value of his car has decreased dramatically solely due to the Covid-
19 pandemic. He bases this he tells us on the valuations he has received from approved 
Audi dealerships. He therefore thinks the balloon payment is out of line with the true market 
value of his car. Mr P considers that it is therefore unfair for VWFS to seek to obtain the full 
contractual balloon payment from him. Rather, he suggests it ought to be obliged to accept a 
lesser payment which more reflects the cars current market value. 
Further, Mr P complains that because the part exchange value of the car is less than the 
balloon payment he will have to take out a loan to cover the shortfall.
For all of these reasons Mr P complained to VWFS.
VWFSs response was that the amount of the balloon payment was a term of the contract. 
When Mr P entered into the contract he had accepted the contract in its entirety, including 
the amount of the balloon payment. Therefore, VWFS was entitled to rely on this term of the 
contract and hold Mr P to it. 
Moreover, VWFS is unable to predict at the beginning of the agreement what future equity (if 
any) the car might have when the agreement ends. In particular, positive equity is not 
guaranteed. Further, there is no requirement that the final payment should be the same as 
the current market value of the car. 
VWFS pointed out that when Mr P told it he needed time to apply for a loan, it had given him 
breathing space to do so.
For all of these reasons, VWFS did not agree it had done anything wrong, as a result it 
declined to uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Dissatisfied Mr P complained to this service. 
Once Mr Ps complaint was with us, Mr P suggested that he would be willing to make a final 
payment of around £6,000-£7,000. This would be on the basis that this, according to Mr P, 
was the current market value of VWFSs car. 
VWFS also provided us with further information it let us know Mr P had last made a 
repayment in September 2020, which is when the agreement ended. At the time of writing to 
us VWFS told us that Mr P had had its car without paying for the use for 11 months.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ps complaint. He did not recommend that it should 
be upheld. 
VWFS accepted our investigators recommendation, but Mr P did not. In brief, he rejected 
the recommendation on the basis that according to him, the Covid-19 pandemic had led to 
the car losing value to such an extent that the balloon payment was not reasonable. He 
repeated that it would be fairer to him if VWFS agreed to reduce the balloon payment to a 
figure which is closer to the cars value at the time when his agreement with it came to an 
end. This time he told us that that this value was, according to him, between £7,000 and 
£9,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Both parties appear to accept that the requirement to make the balloon payment should Mr P 
want to buy VWFSs car is part of the contract between them. Albeit Mr P now thinks the 
amount he has to pay under this clause is unfair. I think it is reasonable to assume, as a 
starting point, that when a person reads and signs an agreement  they understand the 
terms of the agreement and they are agreeing to be bound by them. Therefore, on the face 
of it, it is fair and reasonable that VWFS is entitled to ask Mr P to pay the full amount of the 
balloon payment as set out in the contract.
Mr P wants to vary the amount of the balloon payment because he thinks, due solely to the 
Covid-19 pandemic the car is now worth less than the balloon payment. Although I agree 
this could in theory have happened I note that he has not provided any evidence from 
relevant third parties to show this. Therefore, I am not persuaded that the market value of 
the car as at September 2020 when the agreement ended, was less than the balloon 
payment of £11,851.25 due to the pandemic. 
Even if I did agree that the market value of the car was less than the balloon payment due 
solely to the pandemic, which I dont, that would not mean I had to automatically uphold Mr 
Ps complaint. The difficulty for Mr P here is just because Mr P wants WVWFS to change the 
terms on which they have contracted, does mean it has to. VWFS is not obliged to vary this 
contractual term in these circumstances.  
The Financial Conduct Authority who regulates VWFS has issued guidance (the guidance) 
about how it expects regulated businesses to behave in relation to motor finance 
agreements during the period that Mr P complains about. In particular, the guidance applies 
in the exceptional circumstances arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic and its impact on the 
financial situation of motor finance customers. It is not intended to have any relevance in 
circumstances other than those related to coronavirus. I can see why Mr P might think that 
this guidance means that if the market value of the car has diminished then VWFS might be 
under a duty to reduce the balloon payment, but it is not.Moreover, what VWFS says about a balloon payment is correct. In other words, there is 
nothing in the contract between Mr P and VWFS or in the law and regulations that apply to 
hire purchase agreements in general that means VWFS has to reduce the balloon payment.  
The issue of the loan is a separate matter. Mr Ps says he will need to take out a loan to 
cover the shortfall. As I have mentioned already I dont agree that the shortfall itself has 
come about due to the pandemic. But it appears that Mr P was expecting to have difficulty 
raising the loan as he was temporarily on furlough from his job. He has not said so explicitly 
but it is implied from what he says that this has caused him or would cause him financial 
difficulties. The financial difficulties in raising the loan appear to have come about only due to 
circumstances arising out of the pandemic. This part of his complaint is covered by the 
guidance. The guidance anticipates that firms should work with consumers to find an 
appropriate solution in these circumstances.
VWFSs records show that Mr P told it he was applying for a loan on 4 September 2020. In 
response VWFS offered Mr P breathing space to sort things out without detriment to him 
until 4 November 2020. It also explained in detail the other options that Mr P had both if he 
wanted to keep the car or alternatively if he wanted to give it back. It also stopped any action 
to terminate the agreement. In the circumstances, I am persuaded VWFS acted 
appropriately.
Mr P appears to feel strongly about this complaint. I therefore anticipate my conclusions 
above may disappoint him. I add some comments below to give Mr P some further context 
which may help him perhaps to temper his disappointment. 
I can well understand why Mr P would be dismayed to find that should he go ahead and 
purchase the car, the part exchange value may be less than the balloon payment. I have 
already said I am not satisfied that the car has lost value due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In 
addition, many factors can impact on the value of a car, including factors like its appearance 
and mileage, that was always the risk that Mr P took when he entered freely into this 
agreement regardless of the pandemic. 
Moreover, for the purposes of completeness I mention that buying the car from VWFS is not 
the only option open to Mr P. Should he not wish to buy the car which he considers 
overpriced he could simply return it to VWFS and not buy it. 
Also, for the purposes of completeness I note Mr P has had possession of VWFSs car since 
September 2020 and has made no repayments. He suggests he is going to be out of pocket 
by at least £2,851.25 = £11,851.25 - £9,000 if he makes the final payment. But he has also 
had possession of VWFSs car for 17 months without making payment. It is arguable 
therefore that has derived benefit that he has not paid for. The benefit being 17 months x 
£295 monthly repayment = £5,015. 
I think it is also fair to point out that if the car has lost value, this might impact VWFS too and 
might have benefitted Mr P too. I say this because VWFS most likely did base the monthly 
repayments, in part on the balloon payment i.e. the monthly payments were lower than they 
would have been to take account of the size of the balloon payment. Conversely if the 
balloon payment had been lower from the onset, Mr Ps monthly repayments would most 
likely have been higher. 
I dont say any of this to upset Mr P still further, far from it. But I do need to look at the whole 
picture.
For all of these reasons I have no fair and reasonable basis for saying VWFS must take any 
further action. It follows therefore that I dont uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman