DRN-3393735
The complaint
Ms W is represented in the complaint by a claims management company. She has 
complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly declined her request to 
port (transfer) her mortgage to a new property. As a result Ms W had to pay an early 
repayment charge (ERC) which she would like Halifax to reimburse. 
For clarity, I will refer to Ms W throughout, including where submissions have been made on 
her behalf by her representatives.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 22 February 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, 
so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. Secondly, what happened really isnt in 
dispute, so I dont need to analyse the events in order to determine why a complaint has 
been made. Finally, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any 
information that might lead to Ms W being identified.
Briefly, Ms W had a mortgage with Halifax taken out in 2016 on the advice of a mortgage 
broker. The mortgage was in the joint names of Ms W and another party. The mortgage was 
over a term of five years and was for approximately £141,300 on an interest-only basis. The 
loan was at a fixed rate of interest of 2.14% until the end of the term. If it was repaid before 
the end of the term, an ERC would be charged.
In March 2021 Ms W applied to Halifax to port the mortgage, explaining that this was a 
like-for-like port until the end of the mortgage term in October 2021. The new property was 
costing £1,020,000, and her previous property had been sold for £1,050,000, so no 
substantial difference. In order to put the application through its system, Halifax had to 
extend the term to one year.
However, after considering the application, Halifax declined it, saying that, due to its lending 
criteria, it could only offer Ms W a mortgage of £129,300, with the balance of £11,700 on a 
repayment basis, and the monthly repayments calculated to repay the £11,700 over the new 
12-month term. Halifax thought this would be unaffordable, given Ms Ws limited income. It 
also wasnt acceptable to Ms W, who instead took out an equity release mortgage, 
redeeming the Halifax mortgage and paying an ERC of approximately £2,800.
Ms W raised a complaint about Halifaxs decision to turn down her porting application which 
wasnt upheld. Halifax acknowledged, however, that its customer service could have been 
better. It paid £200 compensation for this.
Dissatisfied with Halifaxs response, Ms W raised her complaint with the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, where it was considered by an investigator. After looking at what had 
happened, she didnt think Halifax had treated Ms W unfairly.
In a detailed letter dated 22 February 2022, the investigator noted that this wasnt a 
like-for-like application, because the original mortgage had been in joint names, but the new 
mortgage was to be in Ms Ws sole name. As a result, Halifax was entitled to consider the 
affordability of the mortgage, including looking at the repayment strategy for the interest-only 
mortgage. 
The investigator noted that Ms W intended to sell two buy-to-let (BTL) properties to repay the 
mortgage, which were worth around £221,000 and £271,000 respectively, and were both 
mortgaged. However, Halifaxs lending criteria only allowed it to take into consideration 80% 
of the equity to go towards repayment of the interest-only mortgage, which wouldnt be 
sufficient to cover the whole amount on interest-only. 
The investigator was satisfied Halifax was entitled to set its own lending criteria, and where 
an application didnt meet that criteria, it wasnt obliged to lend. The investigator also didnt 
think Halifax had acted unfairly in deciding the mortgage  with part of it on repayment  
would be unaffordable, as Halifax was required to treat borrowers responsibly. Although the 
investigator was sympathetic to the position Ms W was in, particularly given the short time 
remaining on the original mortgage, overall she didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong. 
Ms W didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. No new evidence or arguments have been submitted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is that Ms W says Halifax didnt treat her fairly when it declined 
her request to port her mortgage in full onto her new property.
There are rules in place that cover this type of situation and that I have to consider. These 
rules followed on from the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Mortgage Market Review 
(MMR). The MMR led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way 
residential mortgages are regulated. MMR rules have brought about requirements for stricter 
lending assessments, aimed to protect consumers and encourage mortgage lenders to act 
more responsibly. The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make 
changes to their mortgages might have difficulties with this if they passed the tests under the 
old rules, but not under the new rules. So the FCA introduced certain rules to address this. 
Mortgage Conduct of Business Rules (MCOB) 11.6.3 say that a lender doesnt have to carry 
out an affordability assessment if a borrower wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage 
and there is no additional borrowing, (other than for product fees) and no changes to the 
terms of the mortgage that affect affordability. 
In this case, however, there was a change to the mortgage  removal of one of the 
borrowers. In the circumstances, Im satisfied Halifax was entitled to look at the affordability 
of the mortgage. 
Halifax is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that Halifax makes in respect of 
what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending assessment, and 
whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary matters for Halifaxs 
own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with.
Halifax has provided information about its lending criteria and about what was taken into 
account in its consideration of the application. Halifax did consider making an exception to its lending criteria for Ms W. However, for new interest-only lending the bank requires earned 
income of a minimum of £50,000, and Ms W didnt have this. 
In relation to using a BTL property as a repayment vehicle, Halifax will only allow 80% of the 
equity in a BTL property to be used to repay an interest-only mortgage. After taking account 
of Ms Ws two BTL properties, there was a shortfall of about £11,700 in what Ms W wanted 
to borrow on interest-only and what would be covered by her repayment vehicle. 
Ms W had modest rental income from her BTL properties, but she had no other verifiable 
income and had a level of unsecured debt that affected affordability. Halifax also noted that 
the repayment vehicle for the original mortgage  another property  had been sold in 2016 
(shortly after the original mortgage had been taken out), and wasnt used to repay the 
mortgage. In addition, the two BTL properties Ms W was intending to sell to repay the 
mortgage had insufficient equity to meet Halifaxs criteria.
After careful consideration, Im satisfied that Halifax reached its lending decision fairly, after 
taking into account all relevant factors, including (but not limited to) affordability, exposure to 
risk, and Ms Ws specific circumstances. Given this, Im satisfied that Halifax gave fair 
consideration to this application and so legitimately exercised its commercial judgement 
when deciding the terms upon which it would lend to Ms W. This means that there is no 
basis upon which I can find that Halifax has treated Ms W unfairly or unreasonably.
It follows that Im satisfied Halifax was entitled to charge the ERC on redemption of the 
mortgage. I fully understand Ms Ws argument that the mortgage had only a few months left 
to run. However, the terms of the contract she agreed to in 2016 provided that an ERC 
would be payable if Ms W wanted to repay the mortgage before the end of the term. Overall, 
Im not persuaded Halifax acted unfairly in declining the application to port or applying the 
ERC on redemption of the mortgage.
Ms W could have avoided the ERC by postponing her sale and purchase for a few months 
until the end of the mortgage term, repaying the mortgage in full out of the proceeds of sale 
or by selling her BTL properties in anticipation of the term end.
Halifax acknowledged in its final response letter that it could have dealt with the application 
better in terms of communication between internal teams which resulted in some delay. As a 
result, the bank made a payment to Ms W of £200. I think this is fair and Im not asking 
Halifax to do anything more.
My final decision
I appreciate Ms W will be disappointed, but my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman