DRN-4357722
The complaint
Mr L complains about a call with Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax (Halifax).
What happened
On 25 March 2023, Mr L called Halifax after a payment for a purchase failed. He wasnt 
happy about the way the call was handled and called again that day to make a complaint 
about it.
Mr L complained that the call handler spoke too slowly and he couldnt hear him.  He said he 
sounded too relaxed.
Halifax said the call handler was polite and professional and did all he could to help Mr L. 
But - they considered that what Mr L said on the call to the advisor was inappropriate. They 
said they were respectful to Mr L, and Halifax expected the same treatment in return. They 
said Mr L had raised several complaints about the service provided by Halifax and they felt it 
might be best if he found another bank to meet his expectations. His account could remain 
open for now, but if he raised further concerns, they would give him 65 days notice to close 
it.
Mr L brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She said the call was 
handled with a good level of service. And - Halifax could decide to close Mr Ls account if 
they wished; that was contained in the terms and conditions of the account.
Mr L didnt agree  he restated that the call handler spoke too slowly and quietly. He asked 
that an ombudsman look at his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I listened to the call on 25 March 2023.  Mr Ls payment to an online retailer hadnt been 
made and he wanted to make the payment by another way. He asked if two other methods 
of online/ digital wallet payments would work OK  in other words, could they be trusted and 
would they work. He asked this as they were shown on the retailers payment screen on its 
website. 
In all honesty, I dont think it was for Halifaxs call handler to give a view on the viability of the 
other methods of payment  we would only expect Halifax to say whether the money would 
be paid from Mr Ls Halifax account or not. That said, I can appreciate that Mr L became 
frustrated  because the call handler did speak slowly and was not particularly forceful in his 
communications. But he did say to Mr L that he should be guided by the payment methods 
as per the retailers website  which was the right thing to say.
Mr L asked the call handler to speak louder and quicker  and I can see why he said that. 
But I think the line also wasnt good and there were delays on it between the two people 
when speaking  which also didnt help. Therefore, while I can understand Mr Ls frustration, 
Halifaxs call handler was advising him in the right way. He didnt make any errors  and 
equally, some customers might welcome a slow way of speaking.
Mr L said the call handler disconnected the call  and I heard the line go dead. But theres 
no evidence that the call handler abandoned the call.
The further issue is that Mr L said on two occasions are you on drugs or something 
mateare you sedated or something. And  Halifax said this was an inappropriate thing 
to say. And  I agree with that.
Halifax have said they will close Mr Ls account if he makes any more complaints - as it will 
show he isnt satisfied with their service. I looked at this, and Halifaxs terms and conditions 
say they can do that  these say: We may decide to close your account if we become aware 
that you have:. threatened, been abusive or violent towards our staff;. If we decide to 
close your account, we will tell you at least two months before and explain why.
I can see that Mr L has made six complaints in 2023, with a similar number in the three 
years before that, so I can see why Halifax have taken the action they have  and theyve 
said they will give Mr L 65 days notice of closure if they take the decision to close his 
account  which is in line with the terms and conditions.
In the call with Halifaxs complaint department (13 April 2023), Mr L asked for compensation. 
He said hed been inconvenienced by what happened and spent 30 minutes on the calls. But 
Im not persuaded that this leads me to say that a compensation payment is appropriate.
So, in summary, I think Halifax have acted reasonably in dealing with Mr Ls complaint. And 
while I can see that Mr L will be disappointed by my decision, Im not going to ask them to do 
anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman