DRN-2901917
The complaint
Mr F complains that he was not informed by Santander UK Plc (Santander) about a 
packaged bank account that would have better suited his needs.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our adjudicators.
Mr F had a 123 account from September 2013 to May 2020 and made a substantial financial 
gain as a result.
Santander brought out a 123 lite account in 2016 which Mr F says would have increased his 
gain in his circumstances from 2016. Mr F asks for Santander to give him that additional gain 
as he was not aware of the 123 lite account availability.
Ive considered carefully whether Santander did anything wrong or unfair in relation to Mr F 
when it launched its 123 lite account.
Santander has provided evidence that it publicised the 123 lite product when it was launched 
in 2016, and that information about it has been clearly posted on its website since.
In my view, the way Santander markets a product is entirely a matter for the business. I think 
its more likely than not that Mr F had a reasonable opportunity to become aware of the 123 
lite account and I dont think Santander concealed its availability.
Also, in my view there is nothing Im aware of that requires Santander to continuously 
monitor its customers circumstances to ensure they are maximising their position in their 
use of its bank account products. 
So, although I know Mr F will be disappointed, in my view, I dont think Santander did 
anything wrong or unfair in this matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman