DRN-4108517
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how Santander UK Plc have responded to his observation that they 
may have calculated the interest on his e-saver account incorrectly.
What happened
Mr H complained that Santander were calculating the interest on his e-aver account 
incorrectly and sent his own calculations of what he felt the account interest calculations 
should be and asked Santander for comment. 
Santander responded to Mr H and confirmed the interest on Mr Hs account had been 
calculated correctly. Santander also explained a breakdown of how interest had been 
calculated on his account could be provided to him, but that there would be a £10 fee for this 
service, which would be reimbursed to Mr H if it transpired that Santander had made an 
interest calculation error. Mr H wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so he referred his 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Santander had acted 
unfairly towards Mr H in how theyd managed the situation, including requiring a £10 fee for 
providing an account specific interest calculation breakdown. Mr H remained dissatisfied, so 
the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Santander have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
I also note that Mr H has provided several submissions to this service regarding his 
complaint. Id like to thank Mr H for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in-line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr H notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Mr H and Santander. Rather, it should 
be taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it 
directly in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
When Mr H complained to Santander about the interest calculated on his e-saver account, 
Santander explained that Santanders Savings team had confirmed that the interest paid 
was correct. Santander also explained that if Mr H wanted a breakdown of how interest on 
his specific account had been calculated there would be a £10 fee to provide this to him.   
Financial businesses such as Santander generally use a formula to calculate the interest 
payable on their accounts, with each interest payment being calculated automatically. And 
businesses such as Santander are heavily regulated and subject to scrutiny regarding their 
processes, such as how account interest is calculated. 
As such, I feel its reasonable for Santander to be confident in their interest calculation 
process and that its also fair for Santander to charge a £10 fee for the additional 
administration that would be involved in providing a breakdown of how interest is calculated 
on a specific account. And I also note that this £10 fee is in alignment within Santanders 
terms and conditions.
Mr H has explained that he doesnt want a breakdown of how the interest on his account is 
calculated, but instead wants Santander to comment on his own calculations as to how he 
believes the interest should be calculated which hes provided to them.
But I dont feel there is or reasonably should be any requirement or expectation for 
Santander to respond to Mr H as he would like here. This is because Im satisfied that it isnt 
for Santander to check interest calculations provided to them by their account holders, but 
rather to provide information about interest charged on specific accounts at request. 
Santander have already explained to Mr H that information on how the interest on his 
account is calculated can be obtained upon request and with payment of the relevant fee. 
And I feel that Mr Hs request for Santander to respond to his own calculations is tantamount 
to requesting the information that Santander have already explained they charge a £10 fee 
for, without paying that fee.
Ultimately, I feel that its unlikely that Santander are calculating interest on Mr Hs account 
incorrectly  although it isnt for this service to check account interest calculations. However, 
Santander have explained that if Mr H does request an interest calculation breakdown from 
them, and if it does transpire that any form of calculation error has occurred, Santander will 
reimburse the £10 fee to Mr H along with any interest correction. This seems fair to me, and 
I wont be instructing Santander to take any further action beyond this.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr H was wanting, but it follows from the above that I 
dont feel that Santander have acted unfairly or unreasonably here, and so I wont be 
upholding this complaint. I hope Mr H will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive 
made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman