DRN-3292554
The complaint
Mr M complains about problems he had accessing his Pockit Limited account online. He 
believes Pockit restricted his account.
What happened
Mr M held an account with Pockit. He says that it operated as expected until he changed his 
email address and could no longer log-in to his account. He also lost his card and says he 
couldnt order a new one. 
Mr M contacted Pockit but he says Pockit didnt resolve the problem. Mr M says he 
complained to Pockit but it didnt respond. So, he referred his complaint to us. Since the 
complaint has been referred to us, Mr M has been able to access his account, but he says 
hes continued to have further problems.
Our investigator thought that Pockit shouldve assisted Mr M sooner and recommended it 
pay £150 compensation for this. Mr M accepted this but Pockit didnt. So, the complaint has 
been passed to me to consider and make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I want to make clear that Im only considering whats happened leading up to Mr M 
referring his complaint to us. I understand that Mr M has had some further problems with 
Pockit. I wont be considering them here. But Mr M can raise a further complaint about these 
issues with Pockit directly. He may then be able to ask us to consider that complaint as a 
new one once Pockit either issues its final response letter or eight weeks pass. 
When making my decision, I take into account all of the evidence Im provided. When its not 
clear exactly what has happened, I have to make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. That is, what I think most likely happened given the evidence I do have. 
Exactly what has happened isnt clear in this case. Our investigator has asked Pockit for 
further information and further explanations on a number of occasions. But, despite these 
requests, and its regulatory obligations to cooperate with our investigation, Pockit has 
refused to answer the questions and says it cannot provide any further information. The 
information it has provided us is limited. Whereas Mr M has provided us with lots of evidence 
including screen shots of exchanges he had with Pockit and his recollections of what 
happened. 
Mr M says he wasnt able to access his account. Its unclear why, but I think its most likely 
that this is because he was trying to access it using an email address which wasnt the one 
he originally set up the account with. Mr M has multiple email addresses and I think this is 
where some of the confusion comes from. 
Mr M says he thinks his account was restricted, Pockit says it wasnt. Given I think Mr Ms 
access issues were because he was using the wrong email address, I think its most likely 
Pockit didnt restrict his account. But, this doesnt mean Mr M was always able to access his 
account even if his account wasnt restricted he was clearly having difficulties. And even if 
this was because of his error, I think Pockit should still have assisted him when he was 
having difficulty.
Ive been provided with screen shots of an exchange between Mr M and Pockit in which 
Mr M says he cant access his account. He is sent a generic response explaining that Pockit 
will only communicate with him using the registered email address which wasnt the one 
Mr M was emailing from. Mr M replied saying he had no access to this email address. 
Pocket sent the same generic reply. Mr M replied again asking for help, but Pockit sent a 
very generic response for a third time.
It was clear that Mr M was unable to access the account using the email address he thought 
hed registered with Pockit  hed said this three times at this stage. And the generic 
responses were not assisting Mr M at all. At this stage, someone from Pockit shouldve 
provided some more specific advice about what he could do. Later on, Pockit was able to 
change the email address on Mr Ms account so he could regain access. I see no reason 
why it couldnt have assisted him with doing so when he first got in touch.  
It's unclear how long Mr M was unable to access his account because of this. But Im 
satisfied that, had Pockit considered and responded properly to his online messages rather 
than providing generic responses, it couldve helped Mr M access his account sooner. I dont 
think that Pockit provided good customer service here, and it was below what Mr M 
shouldve been able to expect. Because of this, Pockit does bear some responsibility for Mr 
M being unable to access his account. 
Mr M says he found this incident very stressful and clearly he wasnt able to access his 
funds for a period until he managed to regain access. I agree with our investigator that £150 
is fair compensation in this situation. 
Putting things right
Pockit should pay Mr M £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter 
has caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Pockit Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman