DRN-3467019
The complaint
Ms H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt follow her reasonable adjustments and 
shared her information without her authority. 
What happened
Ms H has a current account with HSBC. 
Ms H explained to HSBC that she experiences severe anxiety and for this reason asked the 
bank to phone her rather than issuing written correspondence. 
After this was agreed, Ms H was unhappy that the bank didnt follow her reasonable 
adjustments. And she explained this caused her serious distress. 
Ms H also complained HSBC shared information with the ombudsman service without her 
consent. 
HSBC looked into Ms Hs complaint but didnt uphold it. The bank explained that:
They tried to send emails as little as possible, but they are required by the regulator 
to send some written correspondence  
Theyre able to send this correspondence in an audio form if Ms H contacts their 
specialist team
The tried to contact Ms H to discuss her needs but werent successful
They only share information as requested when referring a case to the ombudsman 
service, and didnt have any active cases at the time
Ms H wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response so complained to our service. Ms H explained 
that she wants HSBC to follow the adjustments agreed, apologise, and compensate her for 
discrimination and breaching GDPR law. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary he 
said:
HSBC has acted reasonably in keeping written correspondence to a minimum
HSBC shared details with the ombudsman service after a request relating to another 
complaint Ms H brought to our service 
Ms H didnt accept our investigators response, in response she said:
Shes got evidence that HSBC shared information with the ombudsman service, 
which she didnt consent to
Its a breach of the equality act if HSBC dont phone her 
As Ms H didnt accept our investigators response its been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H has complained that HSBC didnt follow her reasonable adjustments. Specifically Ms H 
complains that HSBC didnt phone her, as she requested, and instead sent her written 
correspondence. I understand that receiving written correspondence caused Ms H significant 
distress. And Ive considered Ms Hs argument here and HSBCs actions in writing to Ms H 
instead of phoning her. The bank accepts they did write to Ms H on occasions, instead of 
phoning her. But, they argue thats because the regulator requires them to issue written 
correspondence in certain circumstances  and theyve tried on occasions to speak to Ms H 
but not been successful. 
I understand this will disappoint Ms H, but Im satisfied the bank acted fairly here. I think 
HSBC have tried, as much as possible, to follow Ms Hs requests. Ive seen evidence that 
HSBC has given Ms H an option for how shes able to receive these hard copies in audio 
form, rather than written. And Ive seen a note recorded on the banks case management 
systems about Ms Hs reasonable adjustments. Ive also seen a statement from an HSBC 
staff member saying she tried to get in touch with Ms H via phone to discuss her complaint 
and the reasonable adjustments. And Ive no reason to think this didnt happen. 
Ms H argues that HSBC have breached the equality act in failing phone her. Its not our role 
to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the Courts. Our 
role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. In order to decide that, 
however, we have to take a number of things into account including relevant law and what 
we consider having been good industry practice at the time. The relevant legislation here is 
the Equality Act 2010, and Ive taken this into consideration. Having done so I think HSBC 
have acted fairly and reasonably in issuing written correspondence.
Lastly Ive considered Ms Hs complaint about HSBCs sharing of her data. In HSBCs 
response to Ms H the bank provided her with incorrect information, and should have advised 
Ms H that they did, in fact, share information with our service as requested. However
I dont this means they acted unfairly, or breached data protection legislation, in doing so. As 
our investigator explained, Ms H agreed to the exchange of information from third parties 
when consenting to our service investigating a previous complaint. And when our service 
requested information from HSBC Im satisfied the bank acted fairly in providing this 
information.  
For the reasons Ive explained above I wont be asking HSBC to do anything further here.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman