DRN-2403534
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the interest she was charged by BMW Financial Services(GB) 
Limited (BMWFS) when she took the decision to repay her hire purchase (HP) agreement 
with it early.
What happened
In March 2019 Mrs S entered into a HP agreement with BMWFS for a new car. Mrs S says 
she understood that on settling her agreement when she did, in May 2019, she would be 
charged £112.21 in interest (£17,800 x 39 days/365 days x 5.9%) less a small amount in 
respect of the £786.87 contractual payment she made. However, she was charged £260.85.
Mrs S complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that 
BMWFS had done nothing wrong in charging her the £260.85 interest that it did.
Mrs S didnt agree with the investigators view, so her complaint was passed to me for 
review and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in November 2020. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
First, I would like to point out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I make my decision on the balance of probabilities - that is, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened given the evidence that is available and the 
wider surrounding circumstances.
In response to the investigators view Mrs S made a number of comments which I will 
address in turn:
the dealership misrepresented the HP agreement and this misrepresentation wasnt 
contradicted by the written HP agreement terms
Ive looked at the HP agreement and although I appreciate it doesnt go into as much 
detail in respect of capital repayments as Mrs S might have liked, Im satisfied it has 
been drawn up correctly and therefore contains no errors.
Mrs S says that the dealership told her that she would only be charged interest on 
any capital repayments up to the date repayment is made, not beyond. 
Now I accept I cant say for certain what was or wasnt discussed between Mrs S and 
the dealership. But Im not persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, that Mrs S was 
misadvised as she submits. I say this because this isnt how early settlement of HP 
agreements (whether in full or part) work and this fact in my view would have been 
well known to the dealership.
the dealerships misrepresentation only came to light when she looked to make a part 
repayment of £11,000 on 3 April 2019
I appreciate Mrs S might have had a better understanding of how capital repayments 
are treated on 3 April 2019, but that doesnt mean there had been any 
misrepresentation by the dealership before this date.
her email to the dealership dated 25 March 2019 was never responded to
I accept that Mrs S email dated 25 March 2019 to the dealership appears to have 
gone unanswered. But this, in itself, isnt sufficient for me to uphold Mrs S complaint. 
I would also add that if an answer to this email was important, I might have expected 
Mrs S to have chased up the lack of a response, but she didnt do so.
the dealership could have explained the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) 
Regulations 2004 (in response to her 25 March 2019 email) but it didnt
I accept that the dealership could have explained the Consumer Credit (Early 
Settlement) Regulations 2004 in response to Mrs S 25 March 2019 email. But given 
no response ever appears to have been issued to this email there is nothing I can 
usefully add to what Ive said above.
the HP agreement states interest on early settlement is charged at £2.92 a day
I accept the HP agreement states that interest (in certain) circumstances is charged 
at £2.92 a day. But this is only true where the right to withdraw is exercised and this 
right is exercised within 14 days. And in this case Mrs S didnt exercise this right. I 
would also add that where this right isnt exercised any later settlement, whether full 
or part, is dealt with in line with the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 
2004.
Notwithstanding what I say above Im also satisfied that even if I were to accept that 
there had been a misrepresentation by the dealership, and for the avoidance of doubt 
I dont, I cant see that Mrs S has been prejudiced.
Where someone has acted in reliance on a misrepresentation, the appropriate 
remedy isnt to put them in the position they would be in if the misrepresentation had 
been true, but in the position they would be in if the misrepresentation hadnt 
happened to begin with.  
Now its my understanding that Mrs S entered into the HP agreement to secure a 
£1,000 discount, which wouldnt have been available otherwise. So, with this in mind, 
its my view that even had Mrs S had a full understanding at the outset of how 
BMWFS would treat any capital repayments she made she would have still entered 
into the HP agreement rather than not.
However, this is not the end of the matter.
Its my understanding that Mrs S tried to make a partial repayment of £11,000 on 
3 April 2019 but was told by BMWFS this wasnt possible because the first finance 
payment had not fallen due.
Now I accept that limitations in BMWFS systems might have meant it couldnt 
process a partial settlement before Mrs S first payment had fallen due, been paid 
and cleared. But in my view Mrs S shouldnt be prejudiced by this system limitation. Its my understanding that under the appropriate legislation, rules and regulations 
Mrs S had the right to make a partial repayment on 3 April 2019. Indeed, the HP 
agreement states You have the right to repay all or part of the credit early at any 
time (my emphasis).
So, with this in mind, I think that BMWFS should reconstruct Mrs S loan account on 
the basis she repaid £11,000 on 3 April 2019 and then cleared the remaining 
outstanding balance on 7 May 2019.
Now its my understanding that the above reconstruction will result in an interest 
refund accruing and, in my view, BMWFS should pay this refund to Mrs S together 
with interest.
I also think that this whole matter has caused Mrs S a degree of distress and 
inconvenience for which she should be fairly compensated. And taking everything 
into account I think £50 represents an appropriate sum for BMWFS to pay in this 
respect.
BMWFS responded to say that it had nothing further to add.
Mrs S responded to say that the only thing she had to add was that contrary to what I had 
said she had followed up a lack of response to her email dated 25 March 2019 when she 
visited the dealership on 26 March 2019. And during this visit although she got nothing in 
writing she got a verbal reassurance that her understanding of how capital repayments made 
are treated was correct.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that Mrs S might have got a verbal reassurance, when she visited the dealership on 
26 March 2019, that her understanding of how capital repayments made are treated was 
correct. But I need to make no finding on this point. I say this because regardless of what 
Mrs S might have been told, as I said in my provisional decision, where someone has acted 
in reliance on a misrepresentation, the appropriate remedy isnt to put them in the position 
they would be in if the misrepresentation had been true, but in the position they would be in if 
the misrepresentation hadnt happened to begin with.  
And I remain of the view that what I proposed BMWFS should do in my provisional decision 
puts Mrs S, as far as reasonably possible, into the position she would have been in had the 
misrepresentation she says was made hadnt been made.
So given what I say above, and given that that BMWFS has provided nothing new for my 
consideration, I see no reason to deviate from my provisional decision as to what BMWFS 
should do and I now confirm this provisional decision as final.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and that BMW Financial Services(GB) 
Limited must pay Mrs S:
the interest refund in respect of the loan account reconstruction referred to aboveinterest on the above refunded sum at 8% simple per year* calculated from the date 
Mrs S settled her loan to the date the refund is paid
£50 for the distress and inconvenience this whole matter has caused her
*HM Revenue & Customs requires BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited to take tax off this 
interest. BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited must give Mrs S a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off, if Mrs S asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman