DRN-4230921
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with her mortgage account. 
Mrs P asks for a repayment plan, a copy of a report by a field agent, removal of adverse 
data from her credit file, compensation and an investigation into Barclays conduct generally.
Mrs P has asked a family member, who Ill refer to as Mr P, to assist her with this complaint. 
What happened
Mrs P took out a 17-year mortgage with Barclays in 2004. She also has a mortgage current 
account (MCA). Borrowing under the MCA is secured on her property and has to be repaid 
when the mortgage term expires. When the mortgage term expired in 2021 there was an 
unpaid balance on the mortgage account and the MCA. 
Mrs P says that Barclays 
purposefully put her in arrears by not acknowledging her attempts to make payments, 
rejecting payments and pursuing recovery action despite her engaging.
didnt respond to letters and lost the income and expenditure (I&E) forms she sent.
didnt provide a copy of a field agents report, which she says shes entitled to by law. 
She says an I&E was completed while the field agent was with them.
calls during the day when shes out at work. If it calls in the evening she finds the line is 
often poor and the call handlers who are based overseas have strong accents, making 
discussion difficult. Shed prefer Barclays to deal with Mr P and says she provided a 
third-party authority form during the field agents visit.
took recovery action and told their local council theyd soon be homeless, in breach of 
data protection legislation.
Mrs P says this has caused extreme stress and anxiety. There was damage to her property 
during a storm which has made matters worse. And the adverse data put on her credit files 
by Barclays means she cant borrow money to pay for repairs.
Our investigator said there was no evidence Barclays rejected payments or sent them to the 
wrong account. Barclays said it hadnt received letters or I&E forms from Mrs P. Our 
investigator said Barclays provided its records to show it had tried to contact Mrs P without 
success, including in the evenings. 
Mrs P didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman re-consider the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage term expired in 2021 with an unpaid balance. There was also an unpaid 
balance owed on the MCA. The terms of the MCA say that this had to be repaid when the 
mortgage term expired.
While the complaint has been with us, Mrs P has said that Barclays cancelled her direct 
debit, lost or returned payments or paid them into the wrong account, didnt give them 
account details to make payments, and didnt confirm receipt of test payments. Mrs P says 
she tried to set up payments by standing order but these were returned. She says they 
werent told how to make payments until Mr P called Barclays in mid-2022. 
Barclays says it received payments from Mrs P into the MCA. It provided monthly statements 
for the MCA which show Mrs P made monthly payments of £400 by standing order in 2020 
and 2021, and (albeit with a gap in mid-2022) through 2022 into early 2023. So I think Mrs P 
had the information she needed to make payments to the MCA. 
Mrs Ps payments into the mortgage account stopped in late 2021. This might be because 
the direct debit was cancelled when the mortgage term expired. Mrs P made two payments 
of £10 in August 2022. The annual statement dated 10 October 2022 shows the payments 
were received. So while Mrs P says Barclays didnt confirm receipt, shed have seen the 
payments had arrived when she received the annual statement. This also set out the 
outstanding balance. So I think Mrs P had the information she needed to make payments to 
the mortgage account. The annual statement dated October 2023 doesnt show any 
payments from late 2022 to late 2023.
Barclays says it has no evidence to suggest it received further payments which it returned or 
lost. It asked for further information about the payments Mrs P said had been returned (such 
as the date they were made), but says Mrs P didnt provide this. Mrs P hasnt provided 
evidence to us that she made payments to Barclays which were then lost or not applied to 
the debt owed.
Taking all this into account, I dont think Mrs P has arrears due to Barclays preventing her 
making payments or losing payments she made. I think the debt arose when Mrs Ps 
mortgage term expired with an unpaid balance on the mortgage account and the MCA. This 
debt hasnt been repaid and there isnt an agreed repayment plan in place.
Mrs P says she engaged with Barclays. She says she sent it completed I&E forms. 
Unfortunately, Mrs P hasnt provided evidence of these being sent to Barclays  which I 
appreciate is difficult. An I&E form was completed during the field agents visit and provided 
to Barclays. The field agent passed on a message to Mrs P in November 2022 that Barclays 
needed her to call to complete the I&E as it had queries. The message gave contact details 
(phone and email) for Barclays and said Mrs P could also contact the solicitors. It seems 
Mrs P didnt contact Barclays to complete the I&E. 
I think Barclays made reasonable efforts to get in contact with Mrs P about her arrears. It 
called her (including in the evening) as well as writing and sending a field agent. I note that 
Mrs P hasnt said she has financial difficulties  indeed shes upset that Barclays letters and 
the field agents visit could imply this is the case. Mrs P said she couldnt sort out a payment 
plan until the complaint was resolved. She said shed choose a plan and wouldnt submit 
more I&E forms, which Barclays would lose.
I appreciate Mrs Ps frustration. But at the moment she owes a debt to Barclays and she 
doesnt have a repayment plan in place. This debt is secured on her property and, ultimately, 
Barclays can recover its debt from the sale of the property. Any I&E forms and information provided in 2022 would now be out of date. Id urge Mrs P to engage with Barclays with the 
aim of agreeing an affordable arrangement to repay the debt. Mrs P can of course contact 
Barclays in the evening, or at a time thats more convenient for her. 
Mrs P says she completed an authority for Mr P to deal with the account on her behalf. 
Barclays says this authority only related to the discussion with the field agent. Barclays says 
if Mrs P wants to give authority for Mr P to deal with the account, shell need to do this at a 
branch. 
Mrs P didnt provide the letter she says she received from the council, which she thinks was 
prompted by Barclays telling the council shes soon to be homeless. And I cant see that this 
was part of the complaint she raised with Barclays (via the field agent). As Barclays hasnt 
had an opportunity to look into this aspect of Mrs Ps complaint, I cant fairly look into it here.
Barclays says it has no record of Mrs P making a subject access request. It says if she does 
this it would provide the field agents report.
Barclays has to report correct and up to date information to the credit reference agencies. 
Mrs P didnt provide a copy of her credit report. But she does have a debt that is due and 
unpaid. I cant fairly find that it was unfair for Barclays to record this on her credit file.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman