DRN-2577026
The complaint
Mr L has complained that the early repayment charge (ERC) he paid to redeem his 
mortgage with Clydesdale Bank Plc is unfair. 
What happened
In October 2017 Mr L took out a fixed rate mortgage with Clydesdale. The mortgage offer 
explained that if the mortgage was repaid before 31 December 2019 an ERC would be 
applied, up to a maximum of £5,984.85.
On 30 October 2018 Clydesdale sent Mr L his annual mortgage statement, and on that it 
reminded him that his mortgage was subject to an ERC until 31 December 2019.
A solicitor acting on behalf of Mr L contacted Clydesdale in November 2019 to request a 
redemption statement for the mortgage. The redemption statement said if the mortgage was 
redeemed on 29 November 2019, the ERC would be £5,790.09. It explained the ERC would 
apply if the mortgage was redeemed on or before 31 December 2019.
 
Mr L redeemed the mortgage on 29 November 2019. He then complained about the ERC 
saying it was unfair. Clydesdale rejected the complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, saying the ERC was clear in the paperwork and 
there were no grounds for it to be waived or reduced. Mr L didnt agree and so its been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt that this is very important for Mr L, but although Ive read and considered the 
whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
in order to reach the right outcome. 
Were not the regulator, and Ive no power under our terms of reference to comment on, or 
otherwise determine, how financial businesses operate in general terms. I have to consider 
this complaint by reference to Mr Ls particular situation. When I do that, Im satisfied the 
terms of the ERC were set out in the mortgage offer in a way that should have been readily 
understandable to Mr L; certainly, the information about the ERC was set out in a manner 
that met the regulators requirements. So Im persuaded Mr L knew  or at least should have 
known  how much hed have to pay if he repaid the mortgage before 31 December 2019.  
The rules of mortgage regulation include provisions about ERCs. In summary, they say that 
an ERC must be able to be expressed as a cash value, and must be a reasonable 
pre-estimate of the costs resulting from early termination of the mortgage. But a lender can 
choose how it calculates an ERC, and can calculate the same level of ERC across a group 
of mortgages of similar type, rather than for individual loans. 
Clydesdale is entitled to set an ERC based not on the actual cost to it of Mr L ending his own 
mortgage early, but on a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs of early termination of a group 
of mortgages of similar type. And theres no obligation on Clydesdale to vary that amount 
just because Mr L repaid his mortgage only a month before the ERC period was due to end.
Lenders generally raise money to offer preferential rates for their mortgage customers (both 
new and existing) on the wholesale money markets. Theres a cost to that, and its generally 
fixed in advance. But a lender expects to receive a return to outweigh those costs in the form 
of interest on the mortgages it makes using the money its borrowed. If a mortgage ends 
early, it doesnt get that interest, and so doesnt make back the costs in raising the funds to 
offer that preferential rate.
Its complex and onerous for lenders to calculate individual losses as and when individual 
customers decide to terminate their contracts early. And it isnt possible to estimate, for any 
given individual, when or if they might do so. So Clydesdale is allowed to project how many 
customers, on average, are likely to terminate early and, on average, at what point theyre 
likely to do so, and to apportion that cost across the mortgages in the group. For some 
individual mortgages that will end up being an over-calculation, but for others it will be an 
under-calculation. But thats allowed; Clydesdale doesnt have to refund the difference, but 
equally it doesnt tell a consumer to pay the difference if it goes the other way.
I understand Mr L thinks he could have just made the December payment and then he would 
have made all the payments due in the fixed rate period, and that it would obviously have 
been a lot cheaper for him to pay around £1,300 rather than around £5,800. But it wasnt an 
ERC until a set amount of payments were made; it was an ERC until 31 December 2019. 
Even if Mr L had made the payment due in December 2019, he would still have incurred the 
ERC if he repaid the mortgage in full before 31 December 2019.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied Clydesdale was entitled to charge Mr L an ERC as set out 
in his mortgage contract when he repaid his mortgage early. Im also satisfied there was no 
requirement for Clydesdale to only charge an amount worked out based on Mr Ls individual 
loan and date of redemption, instead it was allowed to charge an amount based on its 
pre-estimate of the costs of early termination of a group of mortgages of similar type.
As Clydesdale did nothing wrong here there are no grounds for me to order it to refund all or 
part of the ERC that was charged.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman