DRN-3637168
The complaint
Mr S complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he made 
under sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr S is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around June 2015, Mr S was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Mr S decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In January 2021 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Ss behalf under section 75 of 
the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mr S to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would be self-funding within the loan term;
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on his electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments; and
the system would not require maintenance (but in fact the inverter would have to be 
replaced during the systems 25-year lifespan, at a cost of £1,000).
Shawbrook it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr S or that there were 
any other reasons for the claim to be upheld.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr S and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view. It added the following new points:
Mr S had thought he was getting a ten-year loan, but the loan agreement which was 
actually executed was for 15 years;
When Mr S had requested an early settlement figure in 2019, Shawbrook had sent 
him a letter quoting a different total amount payable under the loan agreement than 
the agreement had stated;
two versions of Ps invoice had been produced, with the same total amount owing but 
with the prices of individual items amended.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
The scope of this complaint
The three issues raised by the CMC in response to the adjudicators view are new points 
which were not raised in the original section 75 claim or in the original complaint to our 
service. I have not considered them, and if Mr S wishes to complaint about these matters 
then he should bring a new complaint to Shawbrook.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr S could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr S and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system, and also on the 
complexity of the information given in Ps quote, which the CMC argued was difficult for a 
typical consumer to understand.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr S says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered 
these, along with Mr Ss testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on 
balance what is most likely to have happened.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the APR, the total amount payable, the term of the loan (180 
months) and the contractual monthly repayments.The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr S, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to him agreeing to enter into the contract. Mr S has signed it on page 23.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr Ss version 
of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.
I am satisfied that the quote presents information in a clear and accessible manner.
FIT payments and savings
Mr S has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on his energy bills. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P as well as Mr Ss recollections of his meeting with Ps representative 
to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr S could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year, and the expected average income over 20 years. (The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.)
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr S could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £482.19. (The second table shows that this income will increase 
yearly, to an average of £664.61 over the period of 20 years.)
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr S could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings are £366.95 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr S, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as 
£1,121.02. This is shown in another table titled Putting it all together.
This results in a monthly average income of £93.42. Im satisfied that the same document 
set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due of £97.46. So Im not able to 
conclude that Mr S was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT 
payments and savings in the first year.
However, theres another section headed Repayments with three tables showing 
repayments over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused mainly on the table 
for 180 months as this is the length of the loan that Mr S entered into with Shawbrook. This 
table shows the loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £97.46. (This is incorrect; the 
loan agreement gives the correct monthly figure of £98.30, but the difference  84p  is too 
small to affect the following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the 
expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between the 
monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a 
negative figure in the first year of the loan, and positive figures thereafter, meaning that the 
system would begin to make enough money to cover the loan payments in year two.
Im satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the 84p 
discrepancy in the monthly payments). On balance Im also satisfied that the salesperson 
referred to the table at the meeting.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr S could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments, but that it would increase 
yearly, becoming profitable in the second year. So I find that he was told that the monthly 
loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings from year two, and that 
the shortfall in year one would be very modest indeed.
(The position would have been quite different if he had taken out the ten-year loan instead. 
The 120 months table shows that the system would not have made enough to cover the 
larger loan repayments until year five.)
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether Mr S was told that the system would pay for itself within the loan 
term, which for the purposes of this decision I am taking to be 15 years.
The Key Facts page of the quote states in large font that it would take seven years for the 
overall benefits that Mr S could expect to receive to match the cash price of the system.
Right underneath that it explains that this figure only relates to the cash price. This same 
figure also appears in the Putting it all together section, next to two other figures which 
expressly exclude the cost of the finance. So I think it would have been clear that the seven-
year payback time refers to the cash price, not the cost of the finance.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
20 years. This too shows that during year 7 the overall benefits that Mr S could expect to 
receive would reach the cash price of the system, £9,200. (I have only shown the rows for 
years 1 and 7 below, to save space.)
The same table shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement, £17,694, 
would be reached during year 12.
So Im satisfied that P told Mr S that the system would pay for its cash price in 7 years, and 
for the loan within 12 years  within the loan term (but not within ten years)  as supported 
by the information above, all of which was included in the quote. If that were an untrue 
statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, 
and he subsequently suffered a loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation. So Ive 
gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr S.
Performance
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 3,142 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mr Ss FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 3,553 kWh a year. This is significantly more than estimated by P at the point of 
sale (113%), so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected, in terms of energy 
generation, if not financially. So the reason Mr S has not seen the expected financial returns 
is not because the system is defective, but for some other cause.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr S hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr S could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr S entered into the contract.
The inverter
I dont think it is likely that the salesman would have told Mr S that the system would require 
no maintenance over its estimated lifespan of 25 years. It is possible that the salesman did 
not tell him during the meeting that the inverter would need to be replaced, but that is not the 
same thing as a misrepresentation.
I also note that the quote says, in a section titled Inverter:
The Inverter is the one part of PV system that has a higher chance of failure and 
may require your attention within the 25 years.
So I dont uphold this complaint point.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr S to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman