DRN-4011663
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs J complain Amtrust Europe Limited wrongly declined Mr Js claim for cover 
under their legal expenses insurance policy to pursue negligence claims against his union 
and lawyers in relation to an employment dispute.
What happened
Mr J was involved in a dispute with his employers and their training partners (the employer). 
In around 2017 he approached his union for help, and they appointed solicitors to act on his 
behalf in bringing a legal claim against the employer. A barrister represented Mr J at the final 
hearing in January 2021. When judgment was issued a few months later, he found out his 
claim had failed on all issues. 
Mr J was unhappy with the service and legal advice hed received from the union and 
lawyers (the advisers). He said, broadly, the union provided a sub-standard firm of solicitors, 
the solicitors failed to set out the claims properly for the tribunal and the barrister made 
several mistakes at the final hearing. He approached Amtrust for support with his legal costs 
of making a claim against the advisers for negligence.
Mr J and Mrs J had had legal expenses insurance (LEI) with Amtrust between 22 November 
2017 and 21 November 2018. Amtrust declined Mr Js claim on the basis they had a claims 
made policy and the policy had lapsed on 22 November 2018. They said since Mr J hadnt 
made his claim until 2021, the policy didnt respond. Amtrust suggested Mr J contact his 
current LEI insurer. They understood hed only just become aware of the issues giving rise to 
the claim and thought his current insurers should consider it if he had continuity of LEI cover. 
When Mr Js current insurers declined the claim, he made a complaint to Amtrust that theyd 
wrongly declined his claim under their policy. And when Amtrust didnt uphold the complaint, 
Mr J and Mrs J brought it to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator said Amtrust had considered Mr Js claim and reasonably declined it since 
more than two years had passed since the policy had come to an end. Even if Mr J had been 
able to show he had continuity of LEI cover, the time that had passed meant Amtrusts 
position had been prejudiced. Mr J and Mrs J didnt accept our investigators view, so the 
complaints been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Mr J has had in relation to his employment. I can 
understand the outcome of his legal claim was disappointing. But, as Ill explain, I dont think 
Amtrust unfairly declined his claim. 
We expect insurers to consider claims promptly and fairly and not to decline claims 
unreasonably. Ill consider Mr J and Mrs Js claim against that background.
Mr J made his claim in around September 2021. Amtrust considered the claim and let Mr J 
know reasonably quickly they wouldnt meet it. In early October they suggested he contact 
his current insurers. I think Amtrust considered Mr Js claim promptly and fairly in the 
circumstances and reasonably directed him to his current insurers based on their 
understanding hed only recently become aware of a claim against the advisers. 
Mr J and Mrs Js policy with Amtrust covered the reasonable legal costs of pursuing, 
amongst other things, claims relating to Consumer disputes arising out of the purchase  
of services up to a limit of £100,000 and subject to the terms, conditions and exclusions 
set out in the policy.
So, on the face of it, Mr J had cover to pursue the legal claims he wished to make. But the 
policy made clear it was a Claims Made policy and only covered claims notified to Amtrust 
during the period of insurance. Since the period of insurance ran from 22 November 2017 to 
21 November 2018 and Mr J didnt make his claim until 2021, Amtrust were right to say the 
policy didnt provide any cover.
We sometimes think its fair for one or other of a customers insurers to meet a claim where 
the customer can show theyve had continuous cover over the relevant period - subject to 
the relevant policy terms and conditions. 
Ive seen evidence Mr J had LEI cover immediately before he and Mrs J took out cover with 
Amtrust. Hes said he had cover between 2018 and 2020 but hasnt provided full details of 
that insurance. And the cover Mr J took out with the company he was insured with when he 
made his claim in 2021 didnt start until December 2020. Since the Amtrust policy ran from 
November to November, that suggests there was a break in cover. So, in the circumstances 
of this case, I think its fair to consider the Amtrust policy in isolation, as Ive done. 
Even if Mr J and Mrs J could show theyd had continuous cover, I dont think it would be fair 
to ask Amtrust to meet this claim. Thats because over two years had passed between the 
end of the policy and Mr J making his claim. The legal proceedings had come to an end by 
then. Amtrust had had no opportunity to consider, amongst other things, the legal claims    
Mr J was making, the costs that were being incurred or the potential for settlement in line 
with the policy terms about control of the claim. On balance, I think their position is likely to 
have been prejudiced as a result. 
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mr J and Mrs J will be disappointed, I dont 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr J and Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman