DRN-3371839
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his account and registered a marker at 
CIFAS, the national fraud database. 
What happened
Mr A says he was selling items online using social media and receiving money to his 
account. He doesnt accept he was acting fraudulently. The closure of his account and the 
marker is having a significant effect on him and his family.
Barclays said it hadnt made any mistake. It said that it had closed Mr As account in line with 
its terms and conditions and had an obligation to report instances such as this to CIFAS.    
Mr A could access remaining funds of £89.47 in the account if he provided proof of 
ownership.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Three people who had sent 
money to Mr As account had reported being victims of a scam. They had all said that they 
were selling items online. And had been persuaded to send money to Mr As account. An 
explanation had been that the person buying goods had overpaid using an electronic 
payment method and a refund was needed. The references for the payments appeared to 
support this.
Mr A in contrast had said that he had been selling goods online - for example trainers. And 
had received payment for these items. He had provided a series of online messages, 
invoices and screenshots of items. Many online messages werent dated but the ones that 
were seemed to be dated after the payment Mr A said they referred to had already been 
made. The invoices were handwritten.
She said that there was a high bar for adding a CIFAS marker. But the evidence was that  
Mr A had received fraudulent funds into his account and was complicit in this. So, she 
thought it fair that the marker be added. For similar reasons she thought Barclays was 
entitled to close Mr As account which could be done without notice where fraud was 
suspected. And it could decide whether or not to offer him an account.
Mr A didnt agree. He said that this wasnt a fair outcome. The allegation wasnt specific, and 
the explanation wasnt clear enough. He wanted another review and a referral to an 
ombudsman. He needed an account. He said that by the time Barclays had explained the 
issue a lot of the evidence had been lost as he had changed phones. He said that suspicion 
isnt enough here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Barclays 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
Ive looked at the information Barclays received from other banks about three payments into 
Mr As account in January 2021. Three different account holders at those banks reported 
they had been the victims of a scam. The circumstances were as our investigator says 
similar. And were all totally different to those described by Mr A.
Barclays noted that it had asked Mr A at the time for evidence to support him being entitled 
to the money. It either said he would need to show proof of sale and of receipt for goods that 
had been sold or if the money was a gift then proof the money was paid willingly. It reviewed 
the information Mr A provided at the time but wasnt satisfied with it.
Ive looked at all the material Mr A had now sent to this service. He has provided an 
explanation for receiving this money. And shown pictures of the items he says he was selling 
at the time. However, as has already been pointed out the messages are either not dated or 
where they are dont tie up to the date of payment. For example, Mr A provides social media 
chat messages about the sale of footwear for £580. This is dated 31 January 2021. But the 
payment was sent to him on 30 January 2021 even though it didnt show on his bank 
statement until 1 February 2021, the next working day. In any event these messages dont 
establish that goods were actually received, that the people he was messaging were the 
people sending the money and so that he received the money legitimately. 
I need to balance all this information in deciding what is most likely. And I consider that the 
weight of information supports that these funds were obtained fraudulently. Mr A clearly 
knew money was due into the account and he accessed this money in part before Barclays 
blocked the account. I consider he was a witting participant.
Barclays says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr A received fraudulent funds into 
his account. So, Ive looked at whether Barclays was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that Barclays needs to have enough information to make a formal report 
to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr As account of events and the evidence Barclays has provided, Im 
satisfied that Barclays had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr A received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Barclays at 
the time.
- He was in control of who had the benefit of this money.
- Barclays had grounds to believe that Mr A had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
For the same reasons I consider Barclays had grounds to block his account and then to tell 
him on 1 March 2021 that it would be closed with immediate effect.
I appreciate what Mr A says about the difficulty of not having an account and his personal 
circumstances. But I dont have a basis to require Barclays to take any other action.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman