DRN-3518974
The complaint
Mr O complains that TTT Moneycorp Ltd trading as Moneycorp (Moneycorp) declined to 
refund the money he lost as the result of a scam.
What happened
In 2013, while at a gathering, Mr Os friend made him aware of a property development in 
Morocco with a company, Ill refer to as A. Mr O subsequently called As offices in Bermuda 
to discuss the potential purchase of a property.
Mr O received no contracts or information other than what was available on As website at 
the time, but he did receive sketches of the units layout and size. Satisfied with the 
information hed seen, Mr O made a payment to A via Moneycorp for 794,592.72 Moroccan 
Dirhams in October 2013. 
Mr O visited the building site in 2014 but, for various reasons, was unable to do so in the 
following years. Mr O says that between 2014 and 2020 there were sporadic updates about 
the progress of the propertys construction on As website. 
Mr O became concerned hed fallen victim to a scam when he saw that As website had 
been taken down. He subsequently contacted Moneycorp in March 2021 and requested that 
they recover his funds. Since raising the issue with Moneycorp Mr O has had no contact with 
A and his money hasnt been returned.
Mr O raised a formal complaint with Moneycorp, but they declined to refund to Mr O saying 
that his losses were not a result of Moneycorps failings. Moneycorp contacted the receiving 
bank to try and retrieve Mr Os funds but received no response back from them.
Mr O wasnt happy with Moneycorps response, so he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Os complaint and didnt uphold it. In summary, they felt there 
wasnt enough information or evidence to demonstrate that Mr O had fallen victim to a scam. 
They also felt that Moneycorp did all they could to try and recover Mr Os funds. 
Mr O disagreed and asked for a final decision.
In preparing the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman, further information was requested 
from Mr O and Moneycorp. In response, Moneycorp raised a new objection to us looking into 
the complaint, saying they didnt consent if Mr O had brought it too late.
An investigator considered Moneycorps objection but decided we could look into Mr Os 
complaint, as it had been brought in time. While Mr O had raised the complaint more than six 
years after he made the payment in 2013, he had raised his complaint within three years of 
becoming aware he had cause to complain. The investigator felt the three year time limit 
started in 2020, when Mr O discovered that the developers website had been taken down 
and he was no longer able to contact them. Having brought his complaint in 2021, Mr O had 
brought his complaint in time. This was accepted by Mr O and Moneycorp.
As Mr O disagreed with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its worth me noting that I agree with the investigators opinion that Mr Os complaint was 
brought in time and is one that our service can consider under the Dispute Resolution Rules 
(DISP Rules) which are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook  which is 
available on line.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence. 
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I can fairly require Moneycorp to refund Mr O and Ill 
explain why.
Was Mr O the victim of a scam? 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. When Moneycorp 
made the payments, it was following Mr Os instructions. At the time, Mr O wanted to pay A 
and there was no mistake made as the money was sent to the correct account details.
However, a bank has to be on the lookout for and help to prevent payments that could 
involve fraud or be the result of a scam. And Id expect a bank to take steps in those 
circumstances to help protect its customers from suffering a loss. 
But that duty doesnt extend to payments that arent made as a result of a scam. There isnt 
an obligation on Moneycorp to protect Mr O from a high risk investment, and they cant be 
held liable for his losses if it is the result of a business failure rather than as the result of him 
falling victim to a scam. So, in Mr Os case I would need to be persuaded that he made the 
payments as part of a scam.
Based on the information available I cant safely conclude that Mr O was the victim of a 
scam. I say this because:
- There is very limited information about the contact Mr O had with the developer, so 
its hard to clearly understand what arrangement he entered into, what he was paying 
for, and what he was being promised. Mr O has provided sketches of the property 
and the surrounding development which he says he received from A. This isnt 
enough to demonstrate that he had agreed to buy a property or what the terms of 
that arrangement were.- The developers appear to have continued trading until 2020, which is nearly 7 years 
after Mr O made his payment. If this was a scam, I wouldnt usually expect a 
scammer to be able to continue a scam for this length of time. Also, having continued 
trading in any capacity for this length of time suggests that it could be a liquidity issue 
or that the developers business failed. A business financial failure wouldnt be 
considered a scam in the circumstances of this case.
- Mr O being able to go and see the development site, meet the developers and meet 
the site architect also suggests to me that this might be a business failure as 
opposed to a scam.
Based on the information that Ive been given, Im not satisfied that I can fairly conclude that 
the developer set out with the intention to defraud Mr O, which I would need to be persuaded 
had happened in order to decide Mr O was a victim of a scam.  And, on that basis, I cant 
fairly say that Moneycorp acted unreasonably in processing Mr Os payment instruction 
without intervening or hold them liable for Mr Os loss.
Recovery of funds
In this case, Moneycorp contacted the beneficiary bank to see if they could recover Mr Os 
funds after he made them aware of the issue. As the payment was to an international 
beneficiary bank, any recovery action taken by Moneycorp is done on a best endeavours 
basis, whereby Moneycorp is reliant on the overseas bank to respond and return any funds 
that remain. However, Moneycorp received no response from the beneficiary bank.
In the circumstances Im satisfied that Moneycorp have taken the appropriate action in trying 
to recover Mr Os funds.
Moneycorps conduct and actions
Mr O raised a concern saying hes unhappy with Moneycorps conduct. However, our remit 
doesnt allow us to look into the operational conduct of Moneycorp, which falls under the 
remit of the financial regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). I have reviewed 
what happened and the steps Moneycorp took in following Mr Os payment instructions and 
in their attempts to recover his funds from the beneficiary bank once they were made aware 
of the scam. From what Ive seen Moneycorp has followed the steps I would expect in these 
circumstances. 
I realise that Mr O is going to be very disappointed, but having considered everything very 
carefully, I cant fairly ask Moneycorp to refund him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against TTT Moneycorp Ltd trading as 
Moneycorp.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman