DRN-3862027
The complaint
Mr W complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited dealt with a claim on his
car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W drove his car home and parked it on the road. He came out the next morning and
found damage to his car, in particular the front nearside of his car had been damaged along
with both wing mirrors. Mr W therefore called Advantage to make a vandalism claim for the
damage to his car.
Advantage reviewed the claim and accepted it. Then part way through the repairs they said
the wingmirror on the offside of the car was a separate claim. Advantage had an engineer
inspect the car part way through the repairs who said the damage to the nearside was
impact damage and the broken wing mirror on the offside was malicious damage. Because
of this Advantage said they wouldnt cover the offside as they thought it had happened
separately.
Mr W didnt think this was fair and complained. Advantage reviewed the complaint and
rejected it, so Mr W referred his complaint here. He said hed had to pay to repair the
damage not included in the claim and this had caused additional financial stress on him and
his family.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. She said Advantage had
inspected Mr Ws car and their engineers opinion was that the damage was from a separate 
cause. Mr W didnt agree, he said he had come out in the morning and both sides of his car 
had been damaged and therefore it must be one claim.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 23 December 2022 where I said:
Mr W has a comprehensive policy with Advantage which covers him for damage to his car 
in certain situations. Advantage has accepted the claim for the nearside of the car but said 
the damage to the offside is a separate incident. Ive therefore looked at whether Advantage
have acted fairly and reasonably in doing so.
Advantage have provided an engineers report which says:
The damage rendered to the left hand front is clearly impact whereas
the damage noted to the right hand door mirror appears to be malicious.
Ive noted that the report doesnt have any photos of the damage or an explanation as to 
why they feel the damage to the two sides is separate, except for the fact the report says the
nearside damage is impact related. The report also says:
At the time of my inspection repairs to the vehicle were almost
complete, I was able to view images of the original damage.
It goes onto say:
Whilst there is a very minor dent adjacent to the right hand mirror 
there is no evidence of paintwork damage to the right hand door 
indicating that the vehicle has not been driven with the mirror in its 
damaged condition.
Mr W says he drove the car home and came out in the morning and found the damage. And
from reading the report it appears the damage did occur during the night while Mr Ws car
was parked. I say this because there is no damage to the offside door which would indicate
the car had been driven with the damaged offside wing mirror.
Also when [I] reviewed Advantages engineers report they werent able to assess the 
damage to both sides of the car. Mr W has provided photos of all the damage and while 
there is impact damage to the nearside, its also possible that this was carried out 
maliciously. So, in my view there are two possibilities here. The first are there was an impact 
to the nearside of Mr Ws car and then a second incident occurred where the offside was 
also damaged. Or someone maliciously damaged both sides of the car.
Im not persuaded Advantage have shown there were on the balance of probabilities two
separate incidents. And from looking at the damage overall to Mr Ws car Im more
persuaded that the damage to both sides occurred as one incident. It therefore follows that
Im not satisfied Advantage have acted fairly and reasonably by saying this is two claims.
Advantage therefore need to deal with the damage to both sides as one claim.
As Advantage didnt do this Mr W has paid to repair the damage to the offside off his car. So,
to put things right Advantage need to pay Mr W what hes paid to repair the offside of his car,
plus 8% simple interest per year to compensate him for not having the money. This should
be calculated from the date Mr W paid for the repairs until the date Advantage pay the
settlement. Advantage also need to amend any internal and external records to record this
as one claim. Because Advantage didnt deal with this as one claim its caused Mr W
unnecessary distress and inconvenience. Hes said hes suffered additional financial stress
because of this, and hes also had the distress and inconvenience of repairing his car when
he shouldnt have. Therefore, Advantage should also pay Mr W £250 to compensate him for
this.
Mr W responded and accepted my provisional decision. Advantage responded and didnt 
accept it. They also said their engineers report did have photos but they were in a separate 
document which Advantage have now provided. Advantage said they were surprised I 
thought both areas of damage are related to one incident when the engineers report says 
otherwise. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Advantages response and its not persuaded me to change my decision. I 
say this because while it is helpful to now see the photos Advantages engineer took, they 
just show the damage to the wing mirror which Advantage didnt cover and also the repaired 
body work to the other side of the car. Mr W had also provided images of all the damage to 
his car, and when reviewing these I still think there are two possibilities. As stated in my 
provisional decision and above. 
While Advantage and their engineer believe there are two incidents, there is also the 
possibility that both areas of damage were done maliciously. In Advantages engineers report there is no explanation as to why the damage to the nearside of the car is a separate 
impact damage incident. There is also nothing in the report which compares the damage 
seen and explained why that differed from the other side of the car or what caused the 
impact damage to the nearside. 
Ive also noted that Advantage said in their response to my provisional decision:
The damage to the mirror is on the other side of the vehicle that was 
damage and doesn't have any hall marks of a collision, as there would 
be damage such as scrapes to the surrounding areas of the mirror. 
Ive considered this and I agree with Advantage that if the damage to the mirror was from a 
collision it would be likely to have scrapes to the surrounding area. Ive also seen the 
pictures Mr W has provided of the damage to the nearside of his car and these dont show 
scrapes to the surrounding area of that. So, by Advantages own reasoning, if that was a 
separate incident caused by a collision, there would be scrapes to the surrounding area. And 
as there arent scrapes, in the photos provided, to the surrounding area and without a 
sufficient explanation from Advantages engineer as to why that damage is a separate 
incident. Im more persuaded by Mr Ws version that both areas of damage were caused in 
one malicious incident. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to:
1. Deal with the damage to both sides of Mr Ws car as one claim and record it as one
claim on any internal and external databases
2. Pay Mr W what he paid to repair his car, plus 8% simple interest per year. Calculated
from the date he paid it until the date of settlement
3. Pay Mr W £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman