DRN-3604661
The complaint
Mr H says American Express Services Europe Limiteds refusal to honour the balance 
transfer offer in place when he opened his account is unreasonable. 
What happened
Amex notified Mr H on 9 November 2021 that it was increasing its interest rates from 1 
February 2022 for purchases, balance transfers and cash advances. It set out what to do if 
he wished to opt out of the rate increase. Mr H wrote back to Amex asking it to confirm his 
balance transfer rate would remain at 0%, in line with the outcome of a complaint he had 
made in 2014, as he had a 0% for the life of the balance rate. Amex said it would not and 
explained the changes were in line with the terms of Mr Hs account. 
It also explained that whilst investigating Mr Hs complaint it discovered there was an interest 
block on his account and so he had been charged 0% interest on purchases for several 
years. It said this would be removed on 4 January 2022, but it would not look to recoup any 
interest that should have been applied. 
Mr H brought a complaint to this service saying Amex had previously honoured the 0% rate 
on his balance transfer debt when he had made similar complaints in 2006, 2008 and 2014. 
He asks for compensation for the time, effort and expense he has put into resolving this.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Hs complaint. She said Amexs actions were reasonable 
and it had given Mr H the option to close down his account and repay his balance at the prior 
rate.  
Unhappy with this assessment Mr H asked for an ombudsmans review. In summary, he 
says he borrowed money from Amex at a 0% rate for the life of the balance. As there is a 
remaining balance from his transfer in it is not fair for Amex to now change the interest rate. 
Particularly, when it has previously concluded it must honour the 0% interest rate. He argues 
there remains a balance from the transfer in as Amex increased his credit limit encouraging 
him to make purchases on his account and the repayment hierarchy means these 
transactions are cleared first.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have thought about all of Mr Hs points but in keeping with our role as informal dispute 
resolution service, and as our rules allow, I will focus here on the issues I find to be material 
to the outcome of his complaint. 
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr H is relying on clause 5.4 in the terms that he agreed to when he opened his account to 
support his position. This set out the interest rate for transfers made within the first six 
months of account opening would be charged 0% interest until repaid in full. However, 
clause 6 in those same terms makes clear that the rates set out in clause 5 do not take into 
account any variations in rate which may be made under the agreement, and that Amex has 
the right to vary any of the rates set out in the future. So I disagree that Amex has to hold   
Mr Hs balance transfer interest rate at 0% for the life of the transfer. 
I accept it has, on previous occasions, held the rate at 0% in response to Mr Hs complaints. 
But this does not change my analysis of what it is contractually entitled to do. And Amex has 
said that whilst it made different decisions previously, this is a commercial decision that its 
terms allow it to make.
I find it gave notice as required and gave Mr H details of how to opt out of the rate increase 
so there were no failings in the execution of the change. 
There has been debate about the impact of Mr Hs purchasing behaviour on the outstanding 
balance transfer debt but I dont think this is material to the outcome of this complaint given 
my findings, and as Amex has legitimately increased both Mr Hs balance transfer and 
purchase rate to the same level at 22.06%.
I know Mr H will be unhappy with this conclusion, but changing interest rates is a commercial 
decision for a lender to make, and not something we would interfere in unless there was 
evidence that its actions breached the terms of the account in some way. 
It follows I am not asking Amex to take any further action. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman