DRN-3600642
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Bank of Scotland (trading as Halifax) wont refund him for three 
transactions he says he didnt authorise.
What happened
On 1 January 2022, Mr K contacted Halifax to report his card as missing. He also said that 
three Automated Teller Machine (ATM) withdrawals amounting to £1,000  one of £500 on 
31 December 2021 and two £250 withdrawals on 1 January 2022 werent made by him. 
Halifax said they couldnt offer Mr K a refund as the transactions were completed using his 
genuine card and Personal Identification Number (PIN). And since Mr K had confirmed that 
his PIN wasnt known by anyone else, they couldnt see how someone was able to gain 
access to both his card and PIN to make the withdrawals.
Unhappy with this, Mr K referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator said that it 
was most likely that Mr K had authorised the disputed transactions by making the payments 
himself. Mr L disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the technical evidence Halifax have provided. And having done so, Im 
satisfied the transactions were authenticated as Mr Ks genuine card and PIN were used to 
make the withdrawals.
Under the relevant rules, Halifax can hold Mr K liable for the disputed transactions if the 
evidence suggests its more likely than not that he made them himself or allowed someone 
else to do so.
I know Mr K will be disappointed, but Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for 
broadly the same reasons. Based on the evidence, I think its most likely that Mr K made the 
transactions himself or otherwise authorised them. Ill explain why.
While its possible for Mr Ks card to have been stolen or found, the withdrawals couldnt 
have been made without his PIN. It must mean that whoever had his card also had his PIN.
Mr K has confirmed that no one else other than him knows his PIN. Hes told us that he 
memorised his PIN and hasnt written it down anywhere. But if this were the case, then it 
doesnt explain how a fraudster who found or stole Mr Ks card wouldve known his PIN.
Ive looked at Mr Ks transaction history, and I can see he used his card to make a payment 
of £2 on 31 December 2021 at 3.14pm. But this was a contactless payment, so Mr K didnt 
enter a PIN during this transaction. And prior to this, Mr K used his card and PIN for a cash 
withdrawal of £40 on 28 December 2021.
Mr K has said that he shields his PIN when making ATM withdrawals. But even if a fraudster 
had somehow learnt Mr Ks PIN on 28 December 2021, I find it highly unlikely that they 
would wait four days to acquire his card.
I dont think that there were any other points where Mr Ks PIN couldve been overseen 
which would logically explain how these disputed transactions took place. 
Looking at the audit reports, I cant see any incorrect PIN attempts prior to the withdrawal. 
Given that I cant reasonably conclude that Mr Ks PIN was known by anyone else, it must 
mean that the fraudster was able to somehow guess his PIN correctly at the first attempt  
which I think is very unlikely.
The audit reports show that the first cash withdrawal of £500 was made on 31 December 
2021 at 11.19pm. Although the ATM cash limit had been reached, there were no further 
attempts made by the fraudster to spend any money until 12.24am and 12.25am on 1 
January 2022.
I find it unlikely that a fraudster would wait nearly an hour to attempt to access more funds 
from Mr Ks account. Theyd be more likely to try to make other purchases using his card 
and would likely attempt to withdraw more funds sooner on 1 January 2022 rather than 
waiting 24 minutes.
I say this because I think a fraudster would want to maximise gain before the account holder 
could discover the fraudulent activity and notify their bank to put a block on the account. 
Even after making two further ATM withdrawals totalling £500 which reached the cash limit 
for 1 January 2022, there were no further transactions attempted, for example in shops or at 
online retailers. I think its unlikely that a fraudster would leave nearly £600 in Mr Ks 
account.
Taking all of these factors into consideration, I think the most plausible explanation is that Mr 
K authorised the transactions, either by carrying them out himself, or by providing his card 
and PIN to someone else. So, I cant fairly ask Halifax to refund him.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman