DRN-3955934
The complaint
Mrs M complains that the chargeback dispute she raised with Nationwide Building Society 
was declined.
What happened
In 2020 and early 2021 Mrs M made five payments with her Nationwide debit card for a 
package holiday she had booked for September 2021. These payments added up to 
£795.80.  Unfortunately, in August 2021 she had to cancel the holiday. The holiday organiser 
didnt refund her, but instead gave her a credit voucher for £776, which she accepted. But 
she was never able to use it, because the organiser ceased trading in October 2021 and 
went into liquidation in January 2022.
In January 2022 Mrs M asked Nationwide to refund her debit card payments. Nationwide 
raised a chargeback dispute, and temporarily refunded her money while the dispute was 
ongoing. But the chargeback claim was unsuccessful because the time limit for raising it 
(120 days) had already expired. Nationwide appealed to Visa, but Visa agreed that the claim 
had been brought out of time. So Nationwide re-debited the refunds from Mrs Ms account.
Being dissatisfied with that outcome, Mrs M (represented by her husband) brought this 
complaint to our service. But our investigator said that Nationwide had done all that it 
reasonably could, so he did not uphold this complaint. Mr and Mrs M asked for an 
ombudsman to review this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. But I do think there may be another way for Mrs M to get 
her money back. I will explain.
First things first: my decision about this complaint is that Nationwide did everything that it 
could have done to get Mrs Ms money back. It isnt Nationwides fault that the chargeback 
claim was declined. The 120 day time limit is mandatory and has to be observed, and a late 
claim cannot succeed. That time limit expired in 2021, and the claim was brought after that, 
so it could only have had one outcome.
Indeed, Nationwide went even further than it was required to, by appealing to Visa. There is 
a charge for that, which is borne by Nationwide. So I think that Nationwide went above and 
beyond what it was obliged to do for its customer, and I cannot uphold this complaint.
However, Mrs M may have another remedy.
Because the holiday organiser is in liquidation, the Travel Trust Association (TTA) is now 
responsible for settling claims against it. There is more about the TTA at their website at 
https://www.thetravelnetworkgroup.co.uk/faqs.
The holiday organiser, Alpha Holidays Ltd, was sued by the Competition and Markets 
Authority (CMA) for contravening regulations, and in February 2022 the High Court ruled in 
the CMAs favour.1 The court held that the company had breached regulation 14 of the 
Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018, which required it to 
refund its customers for cancelled package holidays within 14 days.2 (There is more 
information about this case on the governments website at 
https://www.gov.uk/government/news/court-finds-that-teletext-holidays-broke-consumer-
law.)
Its not clear whether a credit voucher would qualify as compliance with regulation 14. The 
court did not consider that question, and I cant give Mrs M legal advice. But in case the TTA 
think its not enough, there is a simple online claim form at 
https://ttng.wufoo.com/forms/alpha-holidays-claims-form which Mrs M might like to fill in. 
Potentially, she might get some or all of her money back that way.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
1 Competition and Markets Authority v Truly Holdings Ltd (In Liquidation) [2022] EWHC 386 (Ch). 
(Truly Holdings Ltd was the parent company of Alpha Holidays Ltd.)
2 See https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukdsi/2018/9780111168479/regulation/14