DRN-3341021
The complaint
Miss S complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (TPF) rejected her claim under section 
75 Consumer credit act 1974 in respect of payments made to surrender a timeshare 
agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
The chain is not broken and so it falls to me to consider the key issue which is whether there 
were two contracts with the solicitor providing the service. One was funded by a credit card 
payment and the other by a bank transfer. Miss S and her representative take the view that 
the two are linked, but I do not consider that is enough to allow me to uphold this complaint. 
The legislation states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
Section 12 defines the agreement as A debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement being
Miss S paid £500 using her credit card on 23 July 2019 and also made a bank transfer of 
£6,450 on 5 August 2019. S offered two services, which were linked, but it structured them 
as two separate contracts. 
The invoice dated 23 July 2019 sets out the two contracts:
Consultation and Investigation, total cost is £2,085
Participation Service, total cost is £4,865
The total due is £6,950
The solicitor also supplied two separate contracts setting out what each would deliver. Our 
investigator has set out the detail in his view and I wont repeat those here. One was for 
consultation and investigation and the other was a participation and service agreement. 
Combined they were intended to enable Miss S to end her timeshare agreement. However, 
they were set up separately. The process was broken down into two component parts and 
each was documented with a separate contract. 
The credit card payment is shown as being for the consultation and investigation contract. 
The payment was not for the second contract and so I consider TPF was right to look at the 
service provided by the solicitor under that contract. The law requires TPF and this service to 
consider if there was a breach of the contract which was paid for using money provided by 
the creditor, in this case TPF?
It is not enough that the services were offered by the same merchant and by the same 
consultant on the same day. I can understand why Miss S and her representative see the 
two contracts as one because of those links. It is quite possible for a service to be broken 
into different contracts and that is what the solicitor has chosen to do.  I dont consider it fair 
or reasonable to treat them as one and I cannot require TPS to reach a different conclusion 
to the one it has done.
It is agreed that the solicitor provided the service it offered under the consultation contract 
and so there is no breach. I believe there was a breach of the second contract, but that 
wasnt funded by a credit card payment from the TPF account and I cannot conclude that 
section 75 applies. 
Finally, I would confirm my agreement with our investigator that a chargeback was not 
possible due to it being out of time. 
I have every sympathy with Miss S and I appreciate she will be disappointed by my decision 
but I regret I cannot uphold her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman