DRN-2301555
The complaint
Ms M complains that Tilney Financial Planning Limited (Tilney) advised her to invest in two 
bonds that were unsuitable for her.
What happened
Ms M emailed her financial adviser at Tilney in November 2017 to ask if he had any 
suggestions on where she could invest some available funds. After further emails had been 
exchanged, Ms M decided to invest £20,000 in a London Capital & Finance (LCF) bond and 
£20,000 in a Blackmore bond.
After LCF went into administration in January 2019, Ms M complained to Tilney that their 
advice had caused her substantial financial loss. She said the bonds werent suitable for an 
inexperienced investor. Tilney rejected Ms Ms complaint saying they hadnt given her advice 
and, even if they had, they couldnt have foreseen what would happen to LCF. 
Our investigator thought Ms Ms complaint should be upheld. She thought Tilney had given 
Ms M advice and recommended investments that were unsuitable for her. Our investigator 
explained what she thought Tilney should do to put things right.
Tilney disagree with our investigator and have asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M emailed her adviser on 8 November 2017. She said she had £20,000 available in a 
savings account and asked if he had any suggestions on where she could put it as interest 
rates had risen.
The adviser replied the following day and told Ms M that if she looked at the bond market 
she could find interest rates of up to 8.5%. He provided links to websites for the LCF and 
Blackmore bonds. 
The adviser explained that such returns could be achieved if Ms M was prepared to lock in 
her funds for a number of years. He said that fixed rate bonds were lower risk than equities 
but would still expose Ms M to some risk. He said that if Ms M wanted to be able to access 
and top up her funds then a deposit account could be more suitable. He provided a few 
examples of accounts that were available along with a link to an article about high interest 
current accounts. 
The adviser concluded his email by saying: 
This is not advice but merely some options and a starting point, please make sure 
you are comfortable with the savings provider you use.
Ms M replied to the adviser on 13 November 2017. She said she could make a further 
£20,000 available for investments and asked: 
What do you think of me putting £20,000 into each company for a 5 year bond  one
paying 8% and one 8.5%?
The adviser replied the same day saying: 
They are very good offers, I have no objections. As I said before, please dont 
consider this advice, its merely me doing some research that may benefit you. 
If you are comfortable with the companies in question then thats fine.
Ms M went ahead and invested £20,000 in each of the two bonds. 
Ive looked first at whether the email exchange Ive described amounted to Tilney offering 
Ms M advice. In doing so, Ive taken account of the guidance provided by the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), on what constitutes regulated advice.
The FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) includes a section (8.28) on the differences 
between giving advice and providing information. It explains that, in the FCAs view, advice 
requires an element of opinion on the part of the adviser. In effect, it is a recommendation as 
to a course of action. Information, on the other hand, involves statements of fact or figures.
It goes on to explain that a key to the giving of advice is that information is either 
accompanied by comment or value judgment or is itself the product of a process of selection 
involving a value judgment. It also says:
One factor in deciding whether what was said by an adviser in a particular situation 
did or did not amount to advice is to look at the inquiry to which the adviser was 
responding. If an investor asks for a recommendation, any response is likely to be 
regarded as advice. (PERG 8.28.2)
In her email, Ms M asked the adviser if he had any suggestions for where she could invest 
her money. In his replies, the adviser explained that hed identified the bonds as a result of 
his own research, and they were very good offers. So, I think Ms M was asking for a 
recommendation, and the information provided was both the result of a selection process 
and accompanied by a value judgment from the adviser.
Tilney have said the adviser told Ms M that his emails were not to be taken as advice. 
Ive quoted above what the adviser said to Ms M in his emails of 9 and 13 November 2017. 
Ive thought carefully about what Tilney have said. Ive also taken account of the further 
guidance in the PERG manual (8.28.7), which says:
(1) A person can give advice without saying (or implying) categorically that the 
customer should invest. The adviser does not have to offer a definitive 
recommendation as to whether the customer should go ahead.
(2) For example, saying the following can still be advice:
(a) this investment is a very good buy but it is your decision whether or not to buyIn this case, the adviser didnt offer a definitive recommendation to Ms M, but he did say the 
bonds were very good offers.  
Overall, I think Tilney did offer Ms M advice to take out the bonds. She asked the adviser for 
a recommendation and he selected two bonds that he presented as very good offers. 
Although he said he wasnt offering advice, Im satisfied the suggestions given to Ms M 
amounted to advice as described by the FCAs guidance.
I note that Tilney have said the exchange between Ms M and the adviser referred to LCFs 
five-year bond, but Ms M invested in a three-year bond. So, Tilney dont think they advised 
Ms M to make the investment she did. 
The advisers emails to Ms M didnt mention the term of the bonds but simply provided links 
to LCF and Blackmores websites. Although one of Ms Ms emails referred to investing in a 
five-year bond, I think that was most likely a mistake. Based on what Ive seen, it doesnt 
change my view that Tilney advised Ms M to invest in the bonds she took out.       
 
Ive looked next at whether the advice Tilney gave to Ms M was suitable for her. 
Before giving advice, Tilney should have considered Ms Ms financial situation, her 
knowledge and experience of investing, and her investment objectives. That would include 
taking account of her attitude to risk, her purpose in investing, and how long she wanted to 
invest her money for. 
Ms Ms adviser would already have known something of her financial situation and her 
investment experience. But in this case, as Ive already described, he advised Ms M in the 
course of a relatively brief email exchange. So, I dont think Tilney did what they should have 
before making a recommendation to Ms M.
And I dont think the bonds were a suitable investment for Ms M. Her objective was to earn 
more interest than she was receiving from her existing accounts. The investments 
recommended to Ms M were mini-bonds. By moving her funds from her existing accounts 
into two mini-bonds, Ms M was significantly increasing her exposure to risk. And, based on 
what Ive seen, I dont think that was in line with Ms Ms attitude to risk. 
If Tilney had given suitable advice to Ms M I dont think she would have invested in the mini-
bonds. I think she would instead have made lower risk investments. 
Tilney have said they later told Ms M to withdraw her funds from the LCF bond. Based on 
the information Ive seen that wouldnt have been possible for the three-year bond Ms M 
held. But even if it had, that wouldnt change my finding that the advice given to Ms M in 
2017 was unsuitable (although it might have affected my decision on what Tilney should do 
to put things right).
Ive therefore decided to uphold Ms Ms complaint and tell Tilney to pay fair compensation.   
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Ms M as close to the 
position she would probably now be in if she hadnt been given unsuitable advice. 
I think Ms M would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what she 
would have done. But, based on what Ms M said at the time, I think she would most likely 
have invested in a savings account paying more interest than her existing accounts.I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Ms M's 
circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
What should Tilney do?
To compensate Ms M fairly, Tilney must:
Compare the performance of Ms M's investments  taking account of any funds that 
have been recovered and returned to her - with that of the benchmark shown below 
and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable. A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment. 
Pay interest as set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
nameStatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date) additional interest
LCF still existsaverage rate from 
fixed rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per year 
from date of 
decision to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation is 
not paid within 28 
days of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance)
Blackmore still existsaverage rate from 
fixed rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per year 
from date of 
decision to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation is 
not paid within 28 
days of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance)
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
I understand that recovery actions are still ongoing in relation to Ms Ms investments. So it 
may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual value should 
be assumed to be zero. This is provided Ms M agrees to Tilney taking ownership of the 
investment, if they wish to. If it is not possible for Tilney to take ownership, then they may 
request an undertaking from Ms M that she repays to Tilney any amount she may receive 
from the investment in future. Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Tilney should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because: 
Ms M wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of her capital. 
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Ms M's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Ms M would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Ms Ms complaint against 
Tilney Financial Planning Limited.
Tilney Financial Planning Limited should pay the amount calculated as set out above. 
They should provide details of their calculations to Ms M in a clear, simple format.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman