DRN-3305620
The complaint
Mr M complained that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk acted 
irresponsibly when it gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr M took out two MoneyBoat loans as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Max. Monthly 
Repayment
1 9/4/2021 28/7/2021 4 £600 £221.67
2 31/7/2021 Outstanding 6 £1,500 £457.35
Mr M mainly said that MoneyBoat didnt do appropriate affordability checks and had it done 
so it wouldve seen he was already in financial difficulty and should have realised that these 
loans werent affordable for him.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr M and MoneyBoat told us about these loans and 
he didnt feel we should uphold this complaint. He didnt think that the information gathered 
raised concerns that the loans wouldnt be affordable or that MoneyBoat saw anything that 
shouldve prompted it to do more checks before agreeing to lend. And our adjudicator didnt 
think that the number of loans Mr M took, the amounts they were for or the period of time he 
was borrowing meant his loan history was enough to show MoneyBoat he mightve been 
experiencing underlying financial difficulty.
Mr M disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. In particular, Mr M felt that MoneyBoat should have seen how far overstretched 
he was with other loans, including payday loans, as well as being up to his overdraft limit 
each month. He also said that if MoneyBoat had looked at his bank statements it would have 
seen evidence of gambling transactions and realised it shouldnt have lent to him. Mr M said 
MoneyBoat failed to take into account his payment history on the first loan when agreeing 
loan 2. He sent us his bank statements to show us more about his financial situation at the 
time.
Mr M has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint and so it comes to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint. Id like to reassure Mr M that Ive 
looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as 
our adjudicator. I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive 
reached my decision.
MoneyBoat provided Mr M with high-interest loans intended for short-term use so it needed 
to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
MoneyBoat was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
any lending was sustainable for Mr M before providing it. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers 
income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided and what 
this all means for Mr Ms complaint. 
MoneyBoat says it agreed to Mr Ms applications after carrying out creditworthiness and 
affordability checks. It relied on information Mr M provided about his monthly income and 
expenditure as well as information obtained from credit reference agencies. It did its own 
background checks to verify the amount of Mr Ms declared take home pay. 
It says the information it had about Mr M showed that repaying the loans shouldnt become 
difficult for him - and in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. 
I've thought about each loan in turn.
loan 1
As this was his first loan with MoneyBoat, at this early stage, Mr M didn't have any track 
record with the lender that shouldve alerted MoneyBoat to any underlying money problems. 
The information MoneyBoat had gathered about Mr Ms finances suggested that he was 
comfortably able to afford this borrowing as it looked like Mr M shouldve had more than 
£1,000 disposable income, even after MoneyBoat had boosted the amount Mr M had said he 
was spending on his existing credit commitments to take into account the information it saw 
on its credit checks.
I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr M provided or the other information 
MoneyBoat had recorded, which meant that MoneyBoat shouldve taken further steps to 
check the information Mr M had declared. Whilst I think its fair to say that MoneyBoat could 
see that Mr M had some other borrowing, from what Ive seen from its checks, bearing in 
mind that borrowers applying for loans of this type often have other credit on their record and 
sometimes an impaired credit history, there wasnt anything that Id expect a lender to be 
unduly concerned about at this stage. It was early in the lending relationship and I think the 
checks were enough for MoneyBoat to agree to lend. 
So I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about loan 1.loan 2
I can see that Mr M took out the second loan around the time he paid loan 1  and he 
borrowed a substantially larger loan this time. But I dont think these things on their own 
were enough to make MoneyBoat think that Mr M was becoming increasingly indebted or 
struggling with being over stretched financially.
MoneyBoat asked Mr M to update the information he provided about his finances each time 
he applied for a new loan. I think its fair to take into account that loan 2 still looked to be 
affordable for Mr M. I dont think his payment record on loan 1 was enough to make 
MoneyBoat think he would find it hard to pay for this borrowing  he repaid the loan on the 
due date. The overall amount Mr M would be paying for credit after taking out loan 2 was still 
within the bounds of what I consider reasonable in the circumstances. And the figures hed 
declared, and the information MoneyBoat had collected, seem to support MoneyBoats 
lending decision. 
There wasnt enough in the credit check information that MoneyBoat could see that I think 
wouldve made it realise at that stage that Mr M couldnt afford to pay this loan in a 
sustainable way. I've taken into account that Mr Ms total credit balance had increased 
between loans 1 and 2. MoneyBoat could see that hed taken out what appear to be two 
further short-term loans shortly after taking out loan 1. And, as Mr M said, he was 
approaching his £2,150 overdraft in the month before he applied for this loan. 
But I think fair to say that his overdraft appeared to be variable  MoneyBoat saw that the 
previous month it had been around £400  and although the amount varied month to month, 
he had always been comfortably within his overdraft limit. Im also mindful that MoneyBoat 
was able to see that he was only using around two thirds of his total available credit. And 
around a quarter of his total indebtedness seems to be the result of Mr M having taken out a 
hire purchase agreement a couple of years earlier  in other words, he borrowed money to 
buy something rather than to obtain spending money. So overall, I dont think in these 
circumstances I can fairly say that MoneyBoat should have seen the sum of his borrowing as 
a sign that Mr M was having trouble managing his finances or struggling with debt. 
And I think it was too soon for MoneyBoat reasonably to be able to identify any particular 
pattern of lending that wouldve suggested Mr M was over-reliant on this type of borrowing or 
not using the money it lent for its intended purpose of providing short-term financial help.
Mr M feels that MoneyBoat didn't do all the checks he thinks it shouldve done before 
agreeing to lend to him. But at this stage of the lending relationship, given the loan amount 
and terms and the information it saw in its credit checks, I dont think proportionate checks 
wouldve required MoneyBoat to ask Mr M to prove what he was declaring or check other 
information sources to verify what he had told them (or omitted to say) about his financial 
circumstances. So I dont think MoneyBoat did anything wrong when it made its lending 
decision based on the information it had at the time  without asking to see Mr Ms bank 
statements. 
To be clear, I dont think a proportionate check wouldve required MoneyBoat to ask to see 
Mr Ms bank statements. Im sorry that Mr M has found repaying all his borrowing difficult. 
And I accept that in reality Mr Ms financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in 
the information he provided or the other information MoneyBoat obtained. But in order to 
uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
some way. And, in this case, I dont think that MoneyBoat did anything wrong in deciding to 
lend either of these loans to Mr M. 
I would just remind MoneyBoat that it has an obligation to treat Mr M positively and 
sympathetically in any discussions if he needs further time to pay. And if Mr M would like help to manage his finances theres more information about how to get free debt and other 
advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman