DRN-4473622
The complaint
Ms E complains about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) and their refusal 
to provide her with home insurance because her property may have flooded in the past.
What happened
In March 2023, Ms E obtained an online quote for a home insurance policy, underwritten by 
LV. She was provided with a quote number, and she called LV to discuss the quote to 
ensure the policy was accurate and as she expected.
But on that call, Ms E explained to LV that her property may have flooded in 1947, but she 
couldnt be sure for certain this was the case. Because of this, LV explained they would be 
unable to provide Ms E with cover, based on their underwriting criteria. Ms E was unhappy 
about this, so she raised a complaint.
Ms E didnt think LV were fair to decline providing her with cover based on the fact her 
property may have flooded more than 70 years earlier, as LV couldnt say for certain the 
property had flooded. And she explained LV had insured her property before, and that they 
were listed by an online advise organisation, who Ill refer to as W, as an insurer who 
specialised in insuring homes at risk of flooding. So, because of the above, she wanted LV 
to agree to clover her property unconditionally and provide an apology alongside other 
additional requests.
LV responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it, providing two complaint responses. In 
both responses, LV explained they were entitled as the insurer to decide what risk they are 
willing to take on. And they were satisfied their refusal to provide Ms E with cover fell within 
their underwriting criteria and because of this, they didnt think they needed to do anything 
more. They did explain if Ms E was able to confirm definitively that her home hadnt been 
flooded previously, they would be willing to provide a new quotation but did explain if this 
information was then found to be incorrect, it may affect any claim she made, and the policy 
she would hold. Ms E remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to 
us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained the rules set 
by the industry regulator; the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) allow insurers such as LV 
to decide the risk they are willing to insure. But that insurers must ensure customers in the 
same situations are treated the same. And having considered the underwriting criteria of LV 
against the information provided by Ms E, they thought LV had acted fairly and reasonably 
as LV wouldnt provide cover for new business where properties may have flooded 
previously. So, even though LV had covered Ms Es property before, they didnt think LV had 
done anything wrong, as theyre entitled to set and change their underwriting criteria when 
they see fit. So, they didnt think LV needed to do anything more.
Ms E didnt agree, and she provided several comments, and pieces of information, 
explaining why. This included, and is not limited to, her continued belief that LV had no 
evidence to show her property had definitely flooded before and so, without this, she didnt 
think it was fair for them to refuse cover based on the risk potentially flooding posed. And 
she continued to ascertain that, without evidence of the flooding, LVs stance was 
discriminatory towards her. As Ms E didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Ms E. Ive read all the 
comments Ms E has provided in detail. And having done so, I think its clear Ms E feels 
strongly about the situation she finds herself in and I dont dispute her belief that LV have 
treated her unfairly. I recognise Ms E wanted LV to provide her home insurance policy 
because of a relationship she has with them through other products. So, when LV refused to 
provide her with a policy, I can understand the upset and frustration she wouldve felt, 
especially when theyve provided her a home insurance policy previously.
But for me to say LV should do something more, such as provide an apology, I first need to 
be satisfied LV have done something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied they failed to follow 
their own underwriting criteria when refusing to provide the policy. Or, if I think they did follow 
these criteria, Id need to be satisfied LV acted unfairly in some other way. And in this 
situation, I dont think thats the case.
First, I think its important to make it clear that within the rules and guidelines set by the FCA, 
insurers such as LV are entitled to set their own underwriting criteria, which defines what 
level of risk they are willing to insure. And crucially, there is no correct way in which an 
insurer should assess these risks to determine what cover they are willing to provide. So, 
essentially, LV have no obligation to provide Ms E with the policy she wants. And because of 
this, our service is unable to direct LV to provide Ms E with an unconditional policy, even if 
we did think LV acted unfairly.
But although LV are entitled to set their own underwriting criteria, we would expect them to 
ensure a customers situation is assessed in line with these, to ensure a customer is treated 
fairly, and by that we mean the same as another customer in the same situation. So, Ive 
looked carefully through LVs underwriting criteria that theyve provided.
And while I cant disclose the exact terminology within these criteria as its deemed 
commercially sensitive, Im satisfied that the criteria makes it clear that if any information is 
provided regarding any previous flooding, other than a definitive answer of the property has 
never flooded, then any new policy would be refused. 
And Ive seen from LVs system notes, and Ms Es own testimony, that Ms E did disclose the 
area her property is situated in did flood on or around 1947. So, because of this, Ms E was 
unable to say for certain that her property had never flooded. So, because of this, I think LV 
were fair to consider this lack of certainty regarding previous flooding against their 
underwriting criteria and decide Ms Es circumstances failed to meet the level of risk required 
for a policy to be offered. And Im satisfied LV wouldve taken the same decision had another 
customer provided the same answer as Ms E. So, I dont think I can say LV have acted 
unfairly on this occasion and because of this, I dont think they need to do anything more.I understand this isnt the outcome Ms E was hoping for. And I do understand why Ms E 
feels LV are unfair to take this stance without them having definitive proof flooding did occur. 
But I wouldnt expect LV to take further action to confirm whether or not Ms Es property had 
flooded, as I dont think this is their responsibility as the insurer. When a consumer takes out 
a policy, it is the consumers responsibility to ensure theyve answered all the questions 
asked by an insurer accurately, and correctly. So, where Ms E is unsure of what the correct 
answer is, I think it would be Ms Es responsibility to take the actions necessary to obtain the 
information. And while I appreciate the difficulty Ms E has faced in obtaining this from the 
relevant authorities, I dont think is the fault of LV.
I also recognise the confusion Ms E may feel, considering LV had insured her property 
before. But I can only consider the circumstances of this complaint, based on LVs decision 
to refuse cover on this occasion. And its worth noting that insurers can change the risk they 
are willing to insure at any time and so, it may be that the risk they were willing to accept in 
the past may differ from the risk they are willing to accept now. And as Ms E changed 
insurers after LV had provided a policy, I think LV were fair to deem Ms Es custom to be 
new business, as she wasnt continually insured by them for her property.
So, because of all the above, I dont think LV have made a mistake or acted unfairly on this 
occasion. As LV have fairly pointed out, should Ms E be able to provide information that 
proves her property has never flooded, then they would look to consider a new quote. It is up 
to Ms E whether she wishes to take this option further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms Es complaint about Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman