DRN-2809682
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the way that their home insurance claim for storm damage 
was dealt with by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA). They are represented by their 
daughter-in-law, Mrs W2
What happened
In February 2020 after particularly heavy storms Mr and Mrs W made a claim to RSA. Rain 
was entering through their bedroom ceiling which had partly collapsed. RSA appointed 
contractors who sent out a surveyor to look at the damage. He concluded that there were no 
obvious signs of external storm damage to the roof, but that the chimney appeared to be in 
poor condition with evidence of deteriorated mortar. As regards the internal damage he said 
there were rotten timbers in the chimney breast area. He concluded that the damage wasnt 
likely to be due to a storm but had been happening over a long period of time.
Mrs W2 complained to RSAs contractors and then to RSA. She was very unhappy at the 
way Mr and Mrs W had been treated. She said the surveyor treated them like children, 
asked them irrelevant questions about the propertys value and made them complete a 
feedback form when it hadnt been explained to them what it was. The contractors said the 
matter was dealt with as an internal issue, and wouldnt provide any detail about their 
findings, saying they were confidential. RSA said the same thing, and though it asked the 
contractors to reply to Mr and Mrs W, they reiterated what they had previously said, and 
didnt answer the complaint.
With regard to the damage, Mr and Mrs W had a builder inspect the property and provide a 
quote for repairs. He said that the water coming in was unlikely to have been from the 
chimney area. Ultimately this was found to be due to a birds nest and the water had built up 
over a period of time.
Mrs W2 referred Mr and Mrs Ws complaint to this service. She said she wasnt complaining 
so much about the claim outcome but about RSAs refusal to take any responsibility for its 
contractors. She said her parents in law are elderly and RSA should have respected them as 
vulnerable people. 
Our investigator said that RSA hadnt taken responsibility for the surveyors conduct when it 
should have. It should have reported back to Mr and Mrs W about its conclusions concerning 
the conduct of the surveyor. As for the claim itself she thought that RSA correctly rejected it, 
as the damage both internally and externally looked to have taken place over a long period 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
conduct of the surveyor
I cant tell RSA how it should carry out its complaints handling, but I do agree with the 
investigator that it is responsible for the conduct of its agents and their employees. Mr and 
Mrs W had concerns about the way they were spoken to and Mrs W2 believes RSA didnt 
treat them the way that vulnerable customers should be treated. Indeed I note that RSA 
hadnt at the time had them recorded them as vulnerable due to their age, although it has 
now done so. Thats not to say though that it didnt take account of their vulnerability at the 
time. 
I think RSA should have told Mr and Mrs W about its conclusions (and should have obtained 
the information from its contractors). Those conclusions could have affected Mr and Mrs Ws 
decision about whether to employ their own expert and/or whether to pursue the claim 
further. I dont agree that this was confidential or affected the surveyors rights as RSA has 
told us. It didnt need to tell Mr and Mrs W about what action, if any, it had taken against the 
surveyor, but it did need to address their concerns even if it didnt think the surveyor had 
done anything wrong. Especially as they were vulnerable customers who felt they were 
being talked down to, I think an award of compensation of £100 is reasonable.
Ive done my best to draw conclusions from RSAs file about its view of the surveyor. It says 
that the evidence from the voice files (where the surveyor reported his findings) is that he 
sounded calm and professional with the surveyor explaining his findings to the customers. 
The general conversations between the surveyor and Mr and Mrs W werent recorded so it 
couldnt comment on those. It doesnt know why Mr and Mrs W were asked about the value 
of their property. The feedback form was on a smart phone and I accept that it may have 
been confusing for Mr and Mrs W to just be handed this. Mr and Mrs W may have perceived 
the surveyor was talking down to them, but as this was something that wasnt recorded or 
written down at the time, I cant reasonably conclude the surveyor acted unprofessionally. 
Ive noted that Mrs W2 asked about the surveyors qualifications, but RSA doesnt require its 
surveyors to have any particular qualification. 
claim decision
When considering claims for storm damage, to decide if the storm cover applies we ask 
three questions and it is only if the answer to each of those questions is yes that we would 
be likely to uphold the complaint. The questions are:
On the balance of evidence, do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or 
around the date the damage is said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with what we generally see as storm damage?
Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
were there storm conditions?
With windspeeds of up to 60mph and heavy rain I think there were storm conditions around 
the time of the claim.
is the damage consistent with storm damage?
The damage is consistent with the sort of damage we see occurring when there are high 
winds and heavy rain.
were storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
For storm cover to apply the damage has to be caused by a one-off incidence of storm, 
rather than bad weather over a long period. 
RSAs surveyor surmised that the poor condition of the chimney and the deterioration of the mortar had caused the rain water to come in, so this wasnt caused by the storm. With 
regard to the internal damage, I understand that there were rotten timbers in the chimney 
breast area which showed that the water had been coming in over a long period, and the 
storm merely highlighted the damage. I note Mr and Mrs Ws builders conclusion that the 
water was unlikely to have come from the chimney area which I accept. However I 
understand he thought the cause of the rainwater coming in was a birds nest which had a 
dam effect and the water had built up over time and got into the property. So I think it 
reasonable to say that the storm conditions werent the main cause of the damage either 
externally or internally.
I understand that Mr and Mrs W dont have extended accidental damage in their insurance. 
But even if that cover did apply, the policy has an overall exclusion for wear and tear or 
anything that happened gradually.
My overall conclusion is that RSA acted reasonably in declining the claim. Therefore, Im not 
upholding this part of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay to 
Mr and Mrs W £100 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman