DRN-1069241
 
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC decreased the credit limit on her credit card and then 
asked for details of her financial situation to determine whether to increase it again. 
What happened
Mrs K has had a credit card with Lloyds for a number of years. In June 2019, Lloyds decided 
to decrease the credit limit on the card from £15,000 to £3,450. It did so because a periodic 
review it had completed found that a County Court Judgment (CCJ) had recently been 
recorded on Mrs Ks credit file. 
Mrs K was unhappy about the limit decrease, not least because she wasnt aware it had 
gone ahead until she attempted a purchase and it was declined due to the reduced limit. She 
received a text message telling her that she was close to her credit limit, which worried her 
that the account mightve been compromised. When she found out that the limit decrease 
was actually due to the CCJ, she explained to Lloyds that the judgment was in connection to 
a car insurance claim she had made, and it had been accepted that it shouldnt have been 
recorded on her credit file. She provided information to support that it was shortly going to be 
removed. 
Lloyds agreed to review the credit limit once the CCJ had been removed  but it wouldnt 
increase the limit until this happened. It asked Mrs K for information about her income and 
expenditure to assess the affordability of an increase, which it offered to consider 30 days 
after the CCJ had been removed. And it sent her correspondence that included details of 
organisations that can help with debt-related issues. 
Mrs K made a complaint, because she thought Lloyds ought to have realised that shes been 
a credible customer for a number of years. Therefore, in her view, it was unnecessary to ask 
her for affordability related information. And it neednt send her details of organisations that 
could help with potential debt problems, because it was evident that shed frequently made 
considerable payments towards the card and was not displaying signs of financial difficulty. 
Overall, she was unhappy about the information Lloyds requested and the relevance of the 
assistance it offered her. 
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint because it didnt think it made an error. It sent a final 
response on 21 June 2019, which pointed to the terms and conditions of the account, which 
provide that it can change the credit limit. Lloyds considered that it had requested further 
information in line with its obligations as a responsible lender. Because the information    
 Mrs K had provided didnt confirm that the judgment had been removed, it agreed to 
reassess her request for the increase of the credit limit once it had been. Finally, it explained 
that its good practice to signpost independent organisations that can help. 
Mrs K remained unhappy, so she brought the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into it and was satisfied that Lloyds had acted fairly  so she didnt 
recommend that the complaint be upheld. Lloyds agreed with this recommendation. Mrs K didnt agree. She submitted that Lloyds ought to have taken a common-sense 
approach to the situation and increase the credit limit, without the need to provide any 
additional information. The CCJ wasnt her fault and this had been accepted  so she found 
it unreasonable that Lloyds questioned her ability to afford a credit limit similar to what she 
had maintained originally. 
Because Mrs K didnt agree, the complaint has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why. 
I understand that Mrs K has had her credit limit decreased on this card because of a CCJ 
that was recorded incorrectly. And that she was initially unaware that she was close to the 
reduced £4,350 limit, leading her to worry the account had been compromised. So, I can 
appreciate this situation caused considerable inconvenience. Ive therefore carefully 
considered whether Lloyds has treated her fairly in the circumstances. 
As the regulator, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets the rules that businesses, 
such as Lloyds, must follow. The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist 
sourcebook for credit-related regulated activities, such as credit cards, and forms part of the 
FCA Handbook.  
Amongst other things, CONC provides that an outstanding CCJ on a customers credit file 
may be an indication of financial difficulties. Lloyds is obliged to take steps to identify 
customers who might be experiencing financial difficulties and take appropriate action. So, it 
acted in line with these obligations by pro-actively monitoring Mrs Ks account and using the 
credit file information available to it at the time. 
The terms and conditions of the account state that We may reduce your credit limit. I 
understand Lloyds sent Mrs K a letter explaining its decision to reduce the credit limit and 
pointed out the accounts revised limit. So, Im satisfied that Lloyds didnt act outside of its 
rights under the account agreement and took steps to make Mrs K aware of the change it 
had made. Indeed, it sent her a text message on 6 June 2019 to notify her that she was 
approaching her credit limit.
According to CONC, Lloyds must monitor the affordability of the lending it grants its 
customers. Lloyds has explained that it reduced the limit as a measure to help avoid Mrs K 
falling into a situation where repayments would become unaffordable. At the time Lloyds 
reduced the limit, it was unaware that the CCJ had been recorded in error  so it acted on 
the basis that Mrs K was exhibiting signs of financial difficulty. 
The Lending Standards Board (LSB) works in collaboration with the FCA to set out good 
lending practice, i.e. outlining the way registered businesses are expected to deal with their 
customers. Lloyds is a member of the LSB and therefore it should follow its Standards of 
Lending Practice. According to these standards, if a decision is made to reduce a customers 
credit limit, Lloyds should give consideration to the impact any reduction will have on the 
customers ability to manage their finances.  
At the time the limit decrease went ahead, Mrs Ks account was close to the revised £4,350 
limit. In other words, she was within this limit, having used around 90% of the available 
funds. So, Im satisfied that reducing the available spending didnt place her over the agreed 
lending amount. And, as mentioned, Lloyds took steps to make her reasonably aware of the revised limit to prevent her from exceeding it. According to the credit card agreement, the 
higher the balance  the more the monthly repayment equates to. Therefore, by reducing the 
available lending, Lloyds restricted the amount that Mrs K would need to repay. 
The information available to Lloyds indicated that Mrs K might have struggled to afford the 
contractual payments to this card. Lloyds is obliged to take appropriate action and Im 
persuaded it reduced the limit having considered the impact this would have on Mrs Ks 
financial situation. Indeed, it provided clear information about the support available by 
signposting independent organisations that could help, along with encouraging Mrs K to 
contact its own team that could offer assistance. I accept that Mrs K didnt in fact need such 
help for the reasons shes since explained  but Lloyds cant be blamed for not having the 
hindsight we now enjoy. I dont find it acted unreasonably in light of the information it had at 
the time. 
Overall, Im satisfied Lloyds acted in line with its obligations as a responsible lender, by 
taking pro-active measures to help Mrs K repay the balance in a sustainable manner; without 
incurring adverse consequences such as charges or increased interest costs.
A CCJ recorded on an applicants credit file can seriously impair their chances of being 
granted lending. So, it strikes me as logical that Lloyds explained to Mrs K that it wanted to 
ensure the CCJ had in fact been removed before she applied for a limit increase. 
CONC provides that a lender must undertake a reasonable assessment of the 
creditworthiness of a customer before significantly increasing the amount of credit provided 
under a regulated credit agreement. And this assessment must be based on sufficient 
information, such as details from its customer about their income and expenditure. In light of 
this, I dont find it unreasonable of Lloyds to ask Mrs K for details of her finances as it did. 
I understand the CCJ has now been removed from Mrs Ks credit file and Lloyds has said 
she can complete an application for the limit to be increased. So, in all the circumstances, I 
conclude that Lloyds doesnt need to do anything differently for this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman