DRN-4284861
The complaint
Ms W complains, via a third party, that Next Retail Limited trading as Next Online (Next) 
lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
In November 2019 Ms W applied for an account with Next which was granted with a credit 
limit of £300. This credit limit was never increased. 
In November 2022 the account was closed by Ms W.
In February 2023 Ms W complained to Next that it had lent to her irresponsibly.
In March 2023 Next issued Ms W a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this FRL 
Next said it was satisfied it had done nothing wrong in approving Ms Ws account application 
or in granting her a credit limit of £300.
Unhappy with Nexts FRL, Ms W complained to our service.
Ms Ws complaint was considered by one of our Investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld.
Ms W didnt agree with the investigators view so her complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Ive come to the same overall outcome as the investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to what has 
already been said. 
Ive summarised this complaint very briefly. But I want to assure both parties that Ive 
reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I havent 
considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers 
allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts.
Secondly, I would add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Next will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website.
In deciding to grant Ms W an account in November 2019 Next was obliged to carry out 
proportionate checks. What constitutes proportionate checks varies depending on the type 
and amount of credit being applied for (and being provided), the size of the regular 
repayments, the total cost of the credit and the consumers circumstances.
Given the checks that Next says it undertook and what it says these checks uncovered or 
didnt uncover, the relatively small credit limit offered (which at 5% gives a monthly 
repayment required from Ms W of £15) Im satisfied that Next undertook proportionate 
checks before agreeing to grant Ms W an account in November 2019. 
Ms W specifically says that Next shouldnt have provided her with the account as she had a 
County Court Judgement (CCJ) registered against her. 
Based on what Next has said and submitted Im satisfied that it had due regard to the CCJ 
registered against Ms W before granting her an account and it didnt  given the age of the 
CCJ and the credit limit granted  act irresponsibly in doing so.
I know that Ms W will be disappointed with my decision. But having considered everything 
that the parties have said and submitted Im simply not persuaded, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, that Next did anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Paul Hamber
Ombudsman