DRN-2981620
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt help protect him from being defrauded 
through a car purchase scam.
What happened
The parties are aware of the details of what happened. So, I dont intend to repeat them all 
here. But, in summary, Mr G was defrauded of £5,270 when he attempted to buy a car that 
was never delivered.
Mr G went into an HSBC branch in February 2018 to make the payment for a car hed 
agreed to buy. He did this because it wasnt usual for him to make large payments. And as it 
was to a company that he hadnt paid before, he wanted some help in making the 
transaction.
Mr G has told us that he was assisted by a cashier in branch who directed him to a self- 
service terminal. Hes said that he told the cashier that he wanted to pay a logistics 
company, R, who would be delivering the car to him. HSBC have said that the cashier would 
have assisted Mr G by first identifying him and setting up Rs account as a new payee. He 
would then have been directed to use his debit card in the self-service terminal to make the 
payment. Mr G says the cashier helped him with that process too.
A week later, when the car wasnt delivered as arranged. Mr G started to get concerned. 
Hed done everything he could to ensure that the seller and logistics company were 
legitimate, even having done an online search on the car to check that it hadnt been in an 
accident and was finance free. But this was a sophisticated fraud. It used a fake logistics 
company to whom he was to pay the money, theyd deliver the car and then hed have 10 
days to decide whether he wanted to return it or not.
Mr G first called HSBC about 10 days after hed made the payment. In his first call to it, he 
requested some copy statements. He also enquired of the call handler what he could do if 
hed paid for something by debit card and it hadnt turned up. HSBC have accepted that Mr 
G was given some incorrect advice on that call. And it paid £50 compensation for that.
But although Mr G was given the wrong advice - as he was told that he perhaps should
leave it a little longer before being worried about his purchase not having turned up - he was
still concerned. So, he called HSBC back the following day. And this time, after a lengthy
wait, he was put through to the fraud team. The fraud agent immediately recognised that Mr
G was likely to have been scammed. And on checking the account that hed paid, which was
also with HSBC, he found that the funds were no longer there - having been spent in a
manner that didnt make them easily recoverable. The account was also in the name of an
individual. It wasnt the business account of the logistics company that Mr G thought he was
paying.
HSBC said that as Mr G hadnt used the payment method suggested on the online website,
where hed initially found the advert for the car - and had chosen to go outside that website
to make the purchase - there was nothing it could do to recover the money. It also didnt
accept that its cashier had done anything wrong by not providing any scam warnings to Mr G
when he made the payment in branch.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Gs complaint was upheld. She thought that the
transaction wasnt unusual for Mr G, as hed made another transfer of a significant sum in
the year before. So, she didnt think this one-off payment was something that should have
alerted HSBC to the possibility of Mr G being defrauded.
Mr G didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In advance of this final decision, 
I issued a provisional decision. In that, I said I intended to uphold Mr Gs complaint and 
require that HSBC refund him the transaction amount and interest. HSBC responded to say 
that whilst it didnt agree with everything that I said in my provisional decision, as a gesture 
of goodwill, and without admitting liability, it was prepared to pay the redress I had 
suggested. Mr G also accepted my provisional decision, but has questioned the rate of 
interest that Ive awarded. Ill address that below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required 
to consider relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes 
of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations (PSRs) and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
Its accepted by both parties that Mr G authorised the payments, albeit as a result of 
being tricked by the scammers. As a result (and under the PSRs as well as the banks 
terms and conditions of business), the starting position is that Mr G is responsible for the 
payments.
Whilst thats the starting point, its not however the end of the story. So, when considering 
HSBCs obligations, I also think it should fairly and reasonably:
-have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams;
-have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer; and
-in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.In this case, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr G when he authorised the payments from his account. Or whether it could, and should, 
have done more before processing it.
Ive looked at Mr Gs account history over the year prior to him making this payment. And 
Ive found that this isnt a transaction that was usual for him. The money for the transaction 
was transferred into his account from another of his HSBC accounts. But the current 
account from which he made the transfer was generally in overdraft, often by around 
£2,000 or so. When he made the transaction, he was into his overdraft by around £600.
Mr Gs account doesnt show much evidence of him making significant payments to third 
parties. Its mainly day to day spending. The only large transaction on there was a 
payment of over £50,000 about 6 months before the scam, which Mr G has said was for a 
house purchase. Mr G has told us that he went into branch to make this transaction, as it 
wasnt usual for him, and he wanted help setting up a new payee. His bank statements 
appear to back that up.
Mr G was looking to purchase this car as his had been written off a few weeks before. He 
was expecting the insurance money in, which he would then put towards payment for the 
new vehicle. Im satisfied that this was a sophisticated fraud. It bears all the hallmarks of a 
type of fraud that has been common for some time. In the scam, a customer is lured 
outside of the web platform on which the car is advertised. Theyre then lulled into a false 
sense of security by the scammers use of a logistics company that will purportedly protect 
the purchasers money if they dont like the car when it is delivered. HSBC will have been 
familiar with this type of scam. Mr G was clearly not.
When Mr G was in branch, it was HSBCs cashier that helped him. HSBC has said that it 
wouldnt have expected its cashier to do any more than identify Mr G, set the new payee 
up for him and then direct him on how to use the self-service payment terminal to make the 
payment. But thats not the extent of HSBCs obligations here. As Ive said above, I would 
have expected HSBC to take measures to help protect its customers from fraud.
Mr G says that he told the cashier that he wanted to make the payment to a logistics 
company, R. And he gave the name of that logistics company to them. The account that 
Mr G transferred the money to, was an individuals account, one of whose names was the 
same as the first name of the logistics company. But, as the fraud team call handler 
immediately spotted, the account wasnt a business account, which would have been clear 
from the sort code and account number.
Whilst confirmation of payee wasnt a legal requirement at the time of this fraud, the 
account to which the money was being transferred was also an HSBC account. And it was 
the cashier that set the payee up on the banks systems for Mr G. So, its not 
unreasonable, given that the fraud team member spotted this immediately, to have 
expected the cashier to spot that this wasnt a business account. They could then have 
asked Mr G some more questions about his intended transaction. Thats particularly the 
case, as hed come into the branch for assistance, the transaction was unusual for him, 
and hed told the cashier that he was intending to pay a logistics business  whilst this 
was a personal account.
On the basis of the evidence that Ive seen, its my finding that Mr Gs recollection of 
events is more likely than not what happened in branch on the relevant day. I consider that 
had the cashier asked Mr G some more questions about this transaction, as they were 
required to do, bearing in mind HSBCs responsibility to protect its customers from fraud, 
the scam would more likely than not have quickly unravelled. On learning this was a 
personal account, and having been warned about scams involving cars that customers 
havent seen, I dont believe that Mr G would have continued to make the payment.I am also surprised that when Mr G attempted to make what Ive found was an unusual 
payment through the self-service terminal, the banks anti-fraud algorithms did nothing to flag 
this up for further checks. Ive not been told by HSBC that the terminal would have given Mr 
G any sort of warning about being vigilant about scams. And, like Id expect should have 
occurred if this had been internet banking, the system didnt try to stop him making the 
transaction before more checks could be done. Mr Gs account was significantly overdrawn 
before the payment in, and had been for some time to varying degrees. And this was a much 
larger payment than he was in the habit of making. It was to a new payee too.
So, I think there were a couple of opportunities here for HSBC to intervene and stop this 
fraud in its tracks. Firstly, the cashier should have spotted that this wasnt a business 
account, but in any event, given the unusual nature of the payment and the circumstances 
involved, they could and should have asked him some more questions about who he was 
paying and why, giving Mr G some fraud warnings about scams of this type.
Secondly, even if the cashier hadnt spotted that this was potentially an unusual 
transaction for Mr G, or that there were any concerns about it being potentially fraudulent, 
I would have expected HSBCs systems to have picked up on this. They didnt, and Mr G 
ended up making a payment to the fraudsters which couldnt be recovered.
Ive also considered whether or not Mr G was negligent in falling victim to this scam, and 
so should potentially bear some responsibility for the loss. But given the sophisticated 
nature of the scam, Mr Gs evidence of the way this played out, and the checks that he did 
on the car and the logistics company, theres nothing more that I would have expected 
him to do here to avoid being defrauded. Of course, if hed made the purchase through 
the online advertising platform, other protections may have been in place. But thats how 
this scam works. Customers are lured outside of those protections and sold a very 
convincing story about why they should pay the logistics company in the way that they 
ultimately do.
I know that Mr G is also concerned that he was given some poor advice the day before he 
reported the fraud. Whilst I cant look at that aspect of his complaint, as it was brought to us 
outside of the 6-month period allowed following HSBC issuing a final response letter, I can 
confirm that I have seen evidence that shows the money had left the fraudsters account in 
any event before then.
It is worthy of note though that the fraudsters account does look to have been used to 
defraud a number of people in the 10 days between when Mr G was scammed and when 
he reported this to HSBC. And Id have thought that the transaction history on that account 
might also have raised alarm bells in HSBCs systems prior to Mr G reporting this, given 
how the money coming in was then spent in quick succession through untraceable 
mediums.
So, in summary, I think that HSBC was under an obligation to help try and protect Mr G 
from being defrauded. There were opportunities here to prevent this loss, although HSBC 
didnt act on them. So, it hasnt treated him fairly and reasonably. And its my intention to 
require that HSBC repay Mr G the sum that he lost. As hes been without the money for 
some time, I also think that HSBC should pay Mr G interest on that sum at the rate it would 
have earned in the savings account from which he transferred it - from the date of transfer 
until it is repaid.
Mr G has said that he thinks I should award interest at 8%, being the rate that he 
understands a number of our customers have received in cases of this type. Mr G isnt 
wrong that the judgment rate of 8% simple interest is one which we often use in awards. But 
its not a rate thats appropriate in every case that we consider.
Here, Mr G took the money to pay for the car from his HSBC savings account. He used this to fund his current account when paying the scammer. When deciding what interest rate to 
award, we consider a customers actual loss or, if thats unknown, their potential loss. Here, 
had Mr G not used the money from his savings account to pay the scammer, it would have 
continued to earn interest in that account at the savings rate it paid. So thats his actual loss.
If the money had just come out of his current account, then I might have thought differently, 
given I would then have had to decide on compensation for the loss of his use of that money. 
But as the loss was from money in a savings account, and its not unfair to assume that the 
money would otherwise have stayed there, Id generally apply the savings account interest 
rate in complaints like Mr Gs. And I still think thats the appropriate thing for me to do here.
As HSBC has accepted the proposed redress, and Mr G had no other comments on my 
provisional findings, I see no reason to change them. So, Im adopting them in full in this final 
decision.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require that HSBC UK Bank Plc
pay Mr G £5,270, together with interest on that sum from the date it left his account until its
repaid, at the rate it would have earned had he kept it in the HSBC savings account from
which he transferred it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman