DRN-2117335
The complaint
Ms B complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc have unfairly declined part of her Travel 
Insurance claim.
All references to AXA include their agents.
Ms B is being represented in her claim by Mr F.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Ms Bs return flight was cancelled so she had to book another one for the following 
day.  Ms B had to book to stay another night at her hotel. AXA have reimbursed Ms B 
for this cost
  
Ms Bs flight was later in the evening, the following day Ms B said she wouldve had 
to pay 50% of the price of an overnight stay to remain in the hotel and use the 
facilities on the day of the flight. To mitigate further expense, Ms B says she 
purchased a day pass at a hotel closer to the airport, at a cheaper price of $250
AXA have declined to cover this cost. They said the policy is intended to cover 
reasonable additional accommodation in the event of a necessary extended stay  
and this wouldnt be intended to be used to cover accommodation during the day 
while Ms B was waiting for a flight
Ive looked at the policy wording under the definitions for travel disruption cover. It 
says on the way home; the policy will cover reasonable additional travel and 
accommodation costs which are of a similar standard to that of your pre-booked 
travel and accommodation. 
The policy doesnt define that accommodation needs to be an overnight stay, so I 
dont think Ms B only being a guest at the hotel during that day would affect whether 
she was covered
Ive looked at the website for the second hotel and I can see it lists what the day pass 
includes, and it specifically says that rooms are not included. Ive not seen anything 
that suggests the pass did include a room and Ive listened to a call where AXA 
contacted the hotel, who said the cost of two day passes would be $250  the same 
value Ms B paid. So Im not persuaded this is an accommodation cost and because 
of this, I think AXA have acted fairly and reasonably in declining this part of her claim
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman