DRN-2575928
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Lloyds Bank Plc wont reimburse him the amount hes seeking after 
money was fraudulently taken from his accounts. Lloyds has agreed to refund a proportion of 
the disputed transactions and compensate Mr D for the distress and inconvenience caused 
but Mr D says that this isnt enough. 
What happened
The parties are aware of the background to this complaint so, I dont intend to set it out in 
detail here as its not in dispute. In summary:
Mr D was incarcerated abroad and in order to release money from his account to pay 
for legal fees and other expenses, he granted a Lasting Power of Attorney (LPA) in 
September 2018 to his son.
The LPA explicitly said that permission should be sought before funds are utilised 
from his account and if thats not possible, he should be made aware of any spending 
as soon as possible. There was a stark contrast in activity on his accounts once the 
LPA had been registered with Lloyds, with sums regularly being transferred out of Mr 
Ds accounts in quick succession but Lloyds failed to notice this or if it did, it failed to 
ask any questions about what was happening on the accounts. 
I consider that there were warning signs which ought to have triggered Lloyds 
awareness of potential financial abuse but it failed to take steps to adequately 
investigate this.
Lloyds initially said that the son became an additional account holder by virtue of 
being an attorney under the LPA but I disagree with this as Mr D was its customer 
whod entered into a contract with it for banking services  not his son. His son was 
essentially granted agency powers to transact on the account on behalf of Mr D. 
Therefore, it was Lloyds responsibility to take steps to ensure that as Mr D was in 
prison and an LPA had been granted, his account was not subject to financial abuse 
as these circumstances were ripe for such abuse to take place. Lloyds is aware of 
the FCAs guidance on vulnerability of consumers; Lloyds was aware that Mr D would 
be classified as vulnerable as he was clearly unable to manage his own money at the 
time which was apparent in his LPA where he states his address as a prison abroad 
so Lloyds was on notice that his money was potentially vulnerable to abuse.
Lloyds registered the LPA and provided the son with full access to Mr Ds accounts 
on the 13 December 2018. Thereafter, a series of transactions took place namely 
faster payments to the son, often with several on the same day. This was in marked 
contrast to the usual sedentary nature of the activity on Mr Ds account; namely the 
one £10 transaction that had taken place within the previous six months. This rapid 
activity ought to have flagged to Lloyds and prompted some questions about where 
the money was going and why.
Lloyds suggested in its representations to us that the activity didnt flag because 
there was an LPA in place. I find this concerning as Lloyds should be aware that like 
many other risks, attorney abuse of finances is a very real risk and it ought to have 
been alive to this once it was in possession of Mr Ds LPA.
Lloyds says that Mr D had the option to maintain the accounts through telephone 
banking and paper statements but I disagree. Lloyds is aware that Mr D was 
incarcerated abroad at the time and so these options to monitor his accounts were 
not available to him. 
Lloyds says that even if it had intervened, it wouldnt have made a difference 
because it wouldnt have been able to speak to Mr D anyway. I disagree and I do not 
consider that Mr Ds incarceration meant that further questions couldnt have been 
asked by it. Lloyds could have enquired as to the purposes of the payments with Mr 
Ds son and used the terms in the LPA to explain why it was asking further questions 
as ultimately, Mr D was its customer and it has duties towards him by virtue of their 
contractual relationship as well as good industry practice. It could have asked for the 
details of Mr Ds legal representative. It could have contacted the British Embassy or 
even the prison. Failing all of this, it could have simply put a block on the account 
until it was satisfied that Mr Ds account wasnt being subjected to financial abuse. 
But none of this happened and its now agreed between the parties that Mr D 
suffered detriment as a result.
Mr Ds son was charged with fraud by abuse of position and received a suspended 
sentence in late 2020. Mr D lost around £92,000 through the unauthorised 
transactions undertaken by his son. The Crown Court has since confirmed that an 
amount had been agreed for Mr Ds son to repay Mr D with dates and penalties 
stipulated for failure to do so. 
Following our intervention, Lloyds has offered to restructure the two accounts as if the 
disputed transactions hadnt happened. This includes:
refunding the disputed payments from 24 December 2018 until 14 May 2019 on 
account ending 4217. There were transactions before this date however they were 
unremarkable and Im satisfied that their presence of themselves wouldnt have 
flagged on Lloyds systems  and Mr D agrees with this
refunding the disputed transactions from 12 January 2019 until 10 May 2019 on 
account ending 6760
paying Mr D 8% simple interest per year (less any tax properly deductible) from the 
dates of loss to the date of refund on the funds from each account 
refunding any overdraft and interest charges accrued because of the disputed 
transactions and correcting any adverse markers on Mr Ds credit file, as a result of 
the fraudulent activity
deducting £6,300 from the redress awarded which Mr D has already received from 
his son
deducting £1,350 which Mr D was due to receive from his son as per the Order 
following the criminal proceedings (I understand that this payment wasnt forthcoming 
and Mr D is pursuing the penalty for this with the legal authorities involved) 
paying Mr D £500 for the distress and inconvenience he suffered because hed been 
deprived of his money and there was a significant chance that this situation could 
have been avoided if Lloyds had intervened earlier.
Mr D disagrees with the final point above. He considers that £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him isnt reflective of the terrible experience hes had and is 
seeking a higher award. He says that:
His lifestyle was taken away as a result of being deprived of his life savings and 
pension income;
He was entirely reliant on charity, provided by organisations and friends for food and 
accommodation, for over a year. He says hes since repaid the friends who assisted 
him but still has thousands to repay the charitable organisations that helped him;
He feels like hes lost two years of his life in the pursuit of getting his money back and 
Lloyds should compensate him for this. 
Because Mr D disagreed with the proposed settlement, this case has come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint overall, largely for the same reasons set out by our 
investigator in his assessment. And, following Mr Ds representations, I agree to award a 
greater sum for the distress and inconvenienced caused to him. Id like to explain why Ive 
reached this conclusion. 
Id like to express my sincere sympathy for everything that Mr D has been through. Its clear 
to me from reading his testimony and all of the evidence in this case, that it has taken a lot 
for him mentally and emotionally to pursue this complaint and achieve recognition that things 
didnt happen as they ought to have done, when his LPA had been registered with Lloyds. 
Moreover, I cannot begin to imagine the significant breach of trust which Mr D must have felt 
when hed discovered that his life savings had almost entirely been emptied from his 
accounts by his son. This must have been incredibly difficult to reconcile with. 
I have borne all of this in mind when reaching my decision in this case. However, ultimately, 
the perpetrator here is Mr Ds son who used duplicity to take advantage of his fathers assets 
whilst he was in a vulnerable position and unable to safeguard his own accounts. And whilst 
I accept that Lloyds ought to have asked more questions and possibly even blocked the 
account altogether, ultimately, it wasnt Lloyds who carried out the fraud on Mr Ds account 
and there remains the possibility  however remote  that Mr Ds son could have employed 
other means to satisfy Lloyds that he was acting on his fathers instructions.
Putting things right
Bearing this all in mind, Im increasing the award for distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mr D, to £1,000. Im aware that Mr D may feel that this isnt enough however I consider this 
to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Ive noted the particular impact on Mr Ds 
lifestyle and health from being deprived of his money for the period he was without it and I 
consider that therefore, the award for distress and inconvenience should be increased to 
reflect the impact of Lloyds part, in this. 
Ive also taken into account that Lloyds has agreed to pay 8% interest for the period where 
Mr D was deprived of the money in his accounts and I consider this heightened interest 
amount  in addition to the £1,000 compensation payment - to be a fair and reasonable 
amount in all the circumstances of the case. I dont consider any financial amount can be 
definitively equated to reflect the distress which Mr Ds son has caused to him. However, 
that is not what I am empowered to award redress for. In terms of Lloyds part in facilitating 
the loss caused to Mr D, Im satisfied that this is fair compensation. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr D but I have given the matter great thought and consider this to be 
reasonable.  
My final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint 
about Lloyds Bank Plc  and I therefore require the bank to:
restructure the two accounts as if the disputed transactions hadnt happened;
refund the disputed payments from 24 December 2018 until 14 May 2019 on account 
ending 4217 within 28 days of receiving notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision;
refund the disputed transactions from 12 January 2019 until 10 May 2019 on account 
ending 6760 within 28 days of receiving notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision; plus
pay Mr D 8% simple interest per year (less any tax properly deductible) from the 
dates of loss to the date of refund on the funds from each account1. 
refund any overdraft and interest charges accrued because of the disputed 
transactions;
correct any adverse markers on Mr Ds credit file as a result of the fraudulent activity;
deduct £6,300 from the redress awarded, as Mr D has already received this; 
deduct £1,350 which Mr D is due from his son as per the terms of the relevant court 
order;
pay Mr D £1,000 for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Reena Anand
Ombudsman
1 If Lloyds Bank Plc is legally required to deduct tax from the interest it should send Mr D a tax 
deduction certificate so he can claim it back from HMRC as appropriate.