DRN-4162732
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited mishandled his claim on a motor insurance
policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a 5-door car that Mr B had bought new
in 2008.
Mr B had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with Aviva for the year from October
2021. The policy covered Mr B as the policyholder and his wife as a named driver.
The policy schedule said that Mr B had 14 years no-claims discount (NCD). That was
protected, so that one claim in the year wouldnt reduce that NCD on renewal. But any
claim was subject to an excess of £250.00.
Unfortunately, in mid-December 2021, a third party driver hit and damaged the car. Mr Bs
wife was injured. Mr B contacted Aviva.
A few days later, he contacted Aviva again about delay in providing a hire car. Aviva treated
that as a complaint. By a final response dated late December 2021, Aviva apologised and
offered compensation of £100.00 for poor service and for delay (until 17 December 2021) in
arranging a hire car.
Aviva considered that Mr Bs car was a total loss. By mid-February 2022, Aviva had said
that, after making a deduction of £497.00 for pre-accident damage, the pre-accident value of
the car had been £2,800.00. Mr B complained to Aviva about poor service and about under-
valuing his car.
At the end of March 2022, Aviva withdrew the hire car.
By a final response dated early April 2022, Aviva confirmed its valuation of £2,800.00. But it
apologised for not responding in January 2022 and for the delay until early April 2022 in
providing a technical engineers review of the valuation. It offered £200.00 compensation.
Mr B brought his complaint to us in late September 2022.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that
Aviva had paid Mr B a fair market value based on the motor valuation guides we are
required to use. The investigator thought that the £497.00 deduction for pre-accident
damage was reasonable. He thought that Aviva had offered Mr B fair compensation of
£200.00 for the impact of the service it provided and for its handling of the claim.
Mr B had brought us some complaint points that pre-dated the final response in late
December 2021. Our investigator didnt consider that we could investigate such issues
because Mr B hadnt brought his complaint to us within six months of that final response or
shown exceptional reasons for delay in doing so.
my first provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B
and to Aviva on 12 April 2023. I summarise my findings:
I didnt consider that Avivas pre-accident valuation of £2,800.00 treated Mr B
unfairly.
From January 2022, Aviva was responsible for poor service including delay and poor
communication.
Taking into account the benefit of the hire car, I considered that Avivas offer of
£200.00 was fair and reasonable compensation for distress and inconvenience.
The £100.00 was offered in December 2021 and Mr B didnt accept it or bring a
complaint to us within six months of that date. So I didnt consider that I could direct
Aviva to pay him that £100.00.
The £200.00 offered in the final response dated April 2022 was in full and final
settlement. So I didnt think that Mr B accepted it or received payment.
Subject to any further information from Mr B or from Aviva, my provisional decision was to
uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr B
(insofar as it hasnt already paid him) £200.00 for distress and inconvenience.
my second provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a second provisional decision on this complaint to 
Mr B and to Aviva on 19 May 2023. I summarise my findings:
Aviva said that it paid Mr B the total of £300.00 on 30 August 2022. So Id checked 
Avivas file for that date, and it did show such a payment. As Aviva has to keep
business records, I found it likely to be correct.
As that payment was before Mr B brought his complaint to us, I was no longer 
minded to find it fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint or to direct Aviva to pay 
Mr B any more compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Subject to any further information from Mr B or from Aviva, my second provisional decision 
was that I didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do 
any more in response to this complaint. 
Aviva accepted the provisional decision.
Mr B hasnt responded to the provisional decision. So I see no reason to change my view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Courtesy Car termsAvivas policy terms said that courtesy car cover was optional, and the policy schedule would
show whether a courtesy car would be provided. Mr Bs policy schedule said that he didnt
have that optional cover. In any event, the policy terms included the following:
If your vehicle cannot be repaired or is stolen, a courtesy vehicle will be provided for
up to 14 days, or until you receive your settlement (whichever is earliest).
So  as Mr Bs car couldnt be repaired - any courtesy car was subject to a limit of 14 days.
Earlier Accident Damage
In February 2022, Aviva sent images of earlier damage to the rear and offside of the car.
Mr Bs email reply of 15 February 2022 included the following:
those minor dents etc which happened when the car was parked quite a while
ago. I reported it to Aviva and then didn't go through with it, as the pandemic struck. I
resurrected the claim just a few months ago in October and had intended to get it
done in the New Year
I have no reason to doubt what Mr B said. However, the fact remains that the car had earlier
accident damage that was unrepaired at the time of the accident in December 2021. I dont
consider that Aviva treated Mr B unfairly by treating that earlier damage as detracting from
the market value of the car in December 2021.
Valuation
The Financial Ombudsman Service expects insurers to value used vehicles by reference to
the retail figures in certain motor trade guides. We find those guides persuasive because
they are based on extensive research into likely selling prices. We usually find
advertisements less persuasive as they contain asking prices that may be negotiated
downwards.
Ive noted the make, model, specification, age, recorded mileage and pre-accident condition
of Mr Bs car.
For a car like Mr Bs dating from 2008, I dont consider that the optional extras of leather
seats and an armrest added to the market value in 2022. Similarly, I dont consider that the
replacement tyres, brakes and battery added to the market value in 2022.
For a car like Mr Bs, Ive seen retail figures in the trade guides as follows:
CAP £2,925.00
Glasss £2,980.00
Cazoo £3,437.00
Auto Trader £3,459.00
I consider that to be quite a narrow range. So I wouldnt say that any figure in that range was
unfair or unreasonable.
I consider those figures to be for a car without pre-existing damage. In older vehicles, we
know that some pre-accident damage often goes unrepaired. So we dont usually find it fair
for an insurer to deduct the whole of the estimated cost of repair. Rather, we usually find itfair for an insurer to deduct half that estimated cost.
In the case of the earlier damage to Mr Bs car, I find that Avivas engineers deduction of
£497.00 was fair and reasonable. In any event, Avivas pre-accident valuation of £2,800.00
was only about £125.00 less than the CAP figure.
Overall I dont consider that Avivas pre-accident valuation of £2,800.00 treated Mr B
unfairly.
Delay and other shortcomings in Avivas service to Mr B
From January 2022, Aviva was responsible for poor service including delay and poor
communication. I consider that the impact of these shortcomings on Mr B included that, at
times, he had to spend time chasing for information and progress. He was entitled to feel
frustrated, forgotten and ignored.
However, in assessing the impact on Mr B, I find it fair to take into account that Aviva
provided the benefit of a hire car from about 17 December 2021 to about 31 March 2022.
That was a much greater benefit than Aviva had to provide under Mr Bs policy. And I dont
consider that Aviva wouldve been able to recover more than a few weeks hire costs from
the third party.
So I dont consider that the removal of the hire car  albeit on short notice  was unfair or
unreasonable.
Taking into account the benefit of the hire car, I consider that Avivas offer of £200.00 was
fair and reasonable compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Final Responses and compensation
The final response dated December 2021 offered £100.00 in relation to poor service and
delay in providing the hire car in December 2021. Mr B has said that Aviva forgot to pay him
that £100.00.
However, I wish to make it clear that  as that £100.00 was offered in December 2021 and
Mr B didnt bring a complaint to us within six months of that date  I dont consider that I can
direct Aviva to pay him that £100.00.
I note that the £200.00 offered in the final response dated April 2022 was in full and final
settlement. So I didnt think that Mr B accepted it or received payment.
However, Aviva says that it paid Mr B the total of £300.00 on 30 August 2022. So Ive
checked Avivas file for that date, and it does show such a payment. As Aviva has to keep
business records, I find it likely to be correct.
As that payment was before Mr B brought his complaint to us, I no longer find it fair and 
reasonable to uphold this complaint or to direct Aviva to pay Mr B any more compensation 
for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman