DRN-4155371
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire agreement with Arval UK Limited 
was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In June 2020, Mr T was supplied with a new car through a hire agreement with Arval. The 
agreement was for 48 months, with monthly payments of £406.55.
In January 2021, the cars engine management light (EML) came on. Mr T took the car back 
to the supplying dealership, and the Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) was replaced due to 
excessive soot. The dealership told Mr T this was caused by his driving style.
The EML came on again in July 2021, and the dealership said that the gas temperature 
sensor wasnt fitted correctly. And the DPF needed regeneration. This work was completed 
on 22 July 2021. On 16 August 2021, the dealership replaced the DPF for the second time, 
as the DPF fitted in January 2021 was damaged.
The EML came on again in March 2022 and, on 22 April 2022, the dealership regenerated 
the DPF. They again said this was caused by Mr Ts driving style. However, Mr T took the 
car to a different manufacturers dealership and, on 16 June 2022, the DPF was replaced for 
a third time. Following this, with the help of a phone app that allows the soot levels to be 
monitored, Mr T has been able to manage the DPF regeneration cycle and hasnt 
experienced any further problems.
Mr T complained to Arval about the issues with the DPF. He also took independent legal 
advice about what had happened. However, Arval didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr T 
brought it to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation. And he said hed like to 
reject the car, be compensated for the two years of stress and inconvenience hed suffered 
and be reimbursed for the £1,500 legal costs hed paid.
Our investigator said they were satisfied there was a fault with the car, and that the DPF 
wasnt sufficiently durable. While Arval said that Mr T needed to provide more evidence that 
the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality i.e., by way of an independent engineers report, the 
investigator didnt think this was necessary. They said theyd seen enough evidence to show 
them there was a problem with the car thatd now been fixed.
Because the car was now fixed, the investigator said that Arval should pay Mr T £200 for the 
distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
Mr T didnt agree. He said that the issue with the DPF wasnt under control, but he had a 
temporary measure in place (the diagnostic equipment and app). And, because of this, he 
didnt think the car was fit for purpose  under normal use the car doesnt warn the driver 
about DPF regeneration, and this lack of warning light means the DPF gets blocked, and the 
EML comes on. He also said that the use of the phone app wasnt a permanent solution and 
wasnt something it was reasonable to expect a normal driver to use.
Mr T also said that it wasnt reasonable that the DPF would need to be replaced so often in a 
car with such low mileage.
Mr T had the car inspected by an independent engineer on 17 March 2023. The engineer 
said the DPF wasnt sufficiently durable, and that it wasnt sustainable for Mr T to monitor the 
regeneration as the car should be doing this itself. However, the investigator didnt think this 
report changed their view. So, Mr T asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr T was supplied with a car under a hire 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to 
investigate complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Arval 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Arval can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr T to show it was present when the car 
was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr T took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask Arval to put this right.
Before I address the issues with the car, I think it would be useful to explain the function of 
the DPF, and whats required to keep it in fully working order. The purpose of a DPF is to 
remove diesel particulate matter, commonly referred to as soot, from the exhaust fumes of 
modern diesel engines. 
According to the manufacturers handbook for the car supplied to Mr T, during normal 
driving conditions, the DPF collects particles in the exhaust to be burned off when it reaches 
a high temperature. As the filter becomes full, a cleaning process occurs automatically. This 
is known as regeneration. Shorter journeys, such as those often taken in a city, can make 
this process more difficult as the system does not get hot enough.The manufacturer recommends journeys above 37mph for 20 minutes are required to clean 
the DPF. The manufacturer also says that failure to regenerate the DPF has the potential to 
affect the cars performance. Its widely accepted that regeneration of the filter is usually 
achieved by regular motorway (or equivalent) driving, and a car with a DPF is unsuited to 
being used for shorter, slower journeys such as town/city driving, where journeys of a 
consistent length and speed required to regenerate the DPF arent taking place.
Having reviewed the iGuide for the car, Ive also noted that, unlike some models produced 
by the manufacturer, the make and model of car supplied to Mr T doesnt have any DPF 
warning lights on the dashboard.
Mr T has said that hes done journeys that fit within the manufacturers parameters for DPF 
regeneration and provided some evidence of this. However, this evidence is only from the 
phone app that hes using to monitor the soot levels in the DPF, so that he can make sure 
its regenerated. 
Ive seen the job sheets for the work done to the car that relates to the DPF. The job sheet 
for 19 January 2021, when the car had done 2,812 miles, shows that the DPF was blocked 
and needed to be replaced. The job sheet for 22 July 2021, when the car had done 4,898 
miles shows that a sensor wasnt fitted correctly, and the DPF needed a forced regeneration.
The job sheet for 16 August 2021, when the car had done 5,469 miles, shows that the DPF 
needed replacement as it was cracked. Finally, the job sheet for 20 April 2022, when the car 
had done 9,381 miles, shows that the DPF was replaced for a third time. 
Im aware that, following the third DPF replacement, Mr T was taking manual steps, by using 
plugged in diagnostic equipment linked to a phone app, to monitor the soot levels in the 
DPF, and to undertake a journey so as to regenerate the DPF as and when necessary.
Ive also seen the independent engineers report, dated 20 April 2023, relating to an 
inspection that took place on 17 March 2023. The engineer explains that theyve seen the 
job sheets for the work that was previously done on the car, as well as inspecting the car 
itself. The engineer said that there are no issues surrounding the DPF and went on to 
explain Mr T is intervening before this becomes an issue, as he is monitoring the soot levels 
himself and when it becomes high enough, he is taking the vehicle for an extended drive to 
carry out a regeneration.
The engineer went on to say the vehicle should in its own right be carrying out a 
regeneration when all parameters are met, however it appears that these are not being met 
at times  it is unclear now what would occur to the vehicle without [Mr Ts] intervention.
The engineer concluded that Mr T is intervening to enable the DPF not to become blocked 
and cause further damage, however, this is not a sustainable method of using the vehicle 
and the vehicle should be carrying out the DPF regeneration under its own parameters [and] 
three new DPFs fitted in a relatively short period of time [is] not normally consistent with the 
implementation of this technology.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the issues Mr T experienced with the car related 
to the regeneration of the DPF. Ive noted that Mr T signed a four-year agreement that 
limited the mileage to a total of 50,000 miles (12,500 miles a year). However, in the almost 
two years between being supplied with the car, and the third DPF being fitted, Mr T had 
done less than 10,000 miles. And, in the year between the third DPF being fitted and the 
independent engineers report, Mr T had done a further 8,500 miles.Its clear from the manufacturers instructions that regular journeys of a sustained speed and 
time (therefore distance) are needed to keep the DPF regenerated. And this is reflected by 
the mileage allowable under the agreement. For the first two years of being in possession of 
the car, Mr T did a relatively low mileage of under 5,000 miles a year, and it was during this 
time that he had repeated issues with the DPF. However, in the third year, his mileage 
almost doubled, and he no longer had any issues with the DPF.
Given this, for the first two years, I think its more likely than not that Mr T wasnt driving the 
car in line with the manufacturers requirements to ensure the DPF regenerated. As such, 
the DPF became blocked and required replacement in both January 2021 and April 2022 
(the replacement in August 2021 was due to damage to the DPF, and not because it was 
blocked with soot).
I appreciate the independent engineers comments that Mr T monitoring the soot levels in 
the DPF using a phone app is not a sustainable method  and the vehicle should be 
carrying out the DPF regeneration under its own parameters. However, the regeneration is 
taking place as a result of how Mr T is now driving the car i.e., by the longer journeys of a 
higher sustained speed that hes evidenced, which is in line with how the manufacturer has 
said the car should be driven.
Whats more, the independent engineer hasnt said that the DPF is failing due to another 
issue with the car, or that any parts needed replacing. The engineer has said in this 
instance the vehicle may not have reached the required standard and therefore may be 
considered not to be of satisfactory quality, but, now the DPF has been replaced and Mr T 
is driving it in such a way as to ensure regeneration, Im also satisfied the car has been 
repaired to a satisfactory standard. So, I wont be asking Arval to allow Mr T to reject the car.
However, its clear that the DPF fitted to the car in January 2021 was faulty, and it was 
cracked and required replacement in August 2021. This resulted in Mr T having a further 
issue with the car, and the need to have to take it back to the dealership for repair. I 
appreciate this wouldve been both frustrating and inconvenient for him, and I think Arval 
should compensate him for this.
The investigator has recommended Arval pay Mr T £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hes been caused, and Ive seen Arval have accepted this recommendation. 
While I appreciate that Mr T most likely wont agree that this is sufficient compensation, and 
that he was looking to reject the car, as this recommendation is within the region of what I 
wouldve asked Arval to pay, had no recommendation been made, I see no compelling 
reason why I shouldnt adopt it as part of my decision.
Putting things right
Therefore Arval should:
pay Mr T £200 compensation for the inconvenience hes been caused.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ts complaint about Arval UK Limited. And they are 
to follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 Andrew Burford
Ombudsman