DRN-3328438
The complaint
S Ltd, represented by Mr R, complained about delays when it tried to open a foreign 
currency account with Metro Bank PLC.
What happened
S Ltd opened a business account with Metro in January 2020. In August 2021, Mr R, for S 
Ltd, tried several times to contact his relationship manager about opening a foreign currency 
account. He couldnt get an answer, so on 26 August he rang Metros customer service 
team. He asked about charges for foreign currency accounts, and then said he wanted to 
open one for S Ltd. He explained that his relationship manager hadnt been answering calls, 
and hed then had an out of office reply to his email saying shed be out until 31 August. Mr 
R said he wanted to proceed before then. 
Metros adviser emailed the branch to ask it to get in touch with Mr R to open a foreign 
currency account. She told Mr R it could take 24 hours for the branch to check its inbox and 
investigate, and checked the correct phone number. She said the latest he should receive a 
call back was on Saturday 28 August.
But Metro didnt return the call.
On 2 September, S Ltd, represented by Mr R, rang to complain. He said that an incoming 
payment of 87,730.01 Euros had come in that day, which had been converted into Sterling 
as £73,085.27. Mr R said this meant hed lost money which he wouldnt have done if Metro 
had set up the foreign currency account hed requested.  Metros adviser said the payment 
had come in to Metro as 87,600.01 Euros, with the difference being charges by the sending 
bank, and that figure had then been converted to the sterling amount. The adviser passed S 
Ltds complaint to the relevant department, and shed asked the branch to contact him as 
soon as possible about opening the foreign currency account. 
In the same call, Mr R went on to authorise an outgoing payment from S Ltds account, also 
in Euros. The adviser warned him that charges wouldnt be waived because S Ltd still didnt 
have a foreign currency account. 
On 3 September, the branch emailed Mr R with the necessary forms to open a foreign 
currency account. On 7 September, Metro paid S Ltd £25 compensation for the lack of a call 
back after Mr Rs 26 August call. 
S Ltd, represented by Mr R, wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. During this time, 
Mr R completed and returned the currency account application forms and  Metro opened an 
account for S Ltd on 30 October.
Our investigator said that the compensation should be increased from £25 to £150. She said 
that Metro have since said that Mr R could have gone into any branch in the days after he 
rang up on 26 August  but there was no evidence that Metro had ever told Mr R that this 
was an option. She also pointed out that Metro Bank had said it would have taken the 
relationship manager 48 hours to open the currency account. And as the incoming payment 
arrived on 2 September, there would have been enough time for the account to have been 
opened if it had been actioned when S Ltd contacted Metro on 26 August. So the 
investigator thought Metro should also pay S Ltd the £2,188 loss which it had incurred as a 
result of the credit going into a Sterling account rather than a Euro account.
Metro didnt agree. It agreed that there had been a broken promise about getting back to the 
customer, and said that it agreed to pay a total of £150 compensation. But it said S Ltd had 
never made it aware why it was important to open a foreign currency account, or that there 
was a cost implication if Metro didnt open it by a certain date. It said there had been no 
sense of urgency in the 26 August phone call. Metro also said that Mr S hadnt chased until 
after hed received the payment and suffered the loss. It said that hed have known by 27 
August that he hadnt had the promised call back, and should have raised it before the 
payment came in. Metro also said that S Ltd did open a foreign currency account on 31 
October 2021, and there had been further incoming Euro payments between 2 September 
and 30 October. Metro said this proved that having a Euro account wasnt time critical.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
More information
I requested more information both from Metro and from S Ltd.
I asked S Ltd when it returned the foreign currency account application forms which Metro 
sent for completion on 3 September. Mr R replied that he hadnt submitted them until 18 
October, because hed been considering changing banks. Mr R added that hed had to 
complain several times about his relationship manager, but hed now changed his Metro 
branch and his current relationship manager was much better and more reachable. 
I asked Metro to explain how it had calculated the £2,188 financial loss which Mr R told us 
Metro had said was the amount lost in the currency exchange. I also asked when it received 
the completed application which it had opened on 30 October. I also asked for its usual 
service level agreement for opening a new account, or, if it didnt have one, the process 
including how long it usually takes, subject to checks.
Metro replied that after receiving the signed form on 18 October, there had been discussions 
about a new mandate, and when Mr R had signed and returned this on 21 October, the 
application had been passed to the local branch for opening. Metro said that normally it 
would be opened within 24 hours but since March 2020 it no longer provided service level 
agreement times because of Covid disruption. It said the account had been opened on 30 
October.
But Metro didnt provide clear information about the £2,188 financial loss. It sent transaction 
information, but didnt show how it had arrived at the loss figure. So Ive assumed that the 
£2,188 figure which Mr R supplied is the correct figure. 
Timescales for opening the account
Its clear from the call recording from 26 August that Mr R had tried asking his relationship 
manager about opening a foreign currency account. He hadnt had an answer, and that she 
then had an Out of Office message until 31 August. He specifically said that he wanted to open the account before that. Metro has argued that Mr R never made it aware why it was 
important to open a new account, nor that there was a cost implication should Metro fail to 
open it by a certain date.
I accept that Mr R didnt say in the call recording that there would be a cost implication 
should Metro fail to open it by a certain date. But he did say he wanted to open it before 31 
August. This was the reason he was ringing up, rather than waiting for his relationship 
manager to return. And this was a business account, not a personal account, so it was 
always likely to have financial implications more than just personal inconvenience. 
I also note that Metro has since said that Mr R could have gone to any branch to open a 
foreign currency account. But Ive seen no evidence that he was ever told this.
Monday 30 August 2021 was a bank holiday. If the branch had phoned Mr R back on 
Saturday 28 August, and Metros normal timescales of 48 hours had been applied, the 
account would have been opened by Wednesday 1 September, which would have been in 
time for the incoming Euro payment on 2 September. It would have been a tight timescale, 
but I consider that if the branch had got in touch with Mr R about the account on 28 August, 
its likely that hed have explained that he was about to receive an incoming Euro payment, 
so it was urgent. And Ive also borne in mind that if the relationship manager had answered 
Mr Rs calls, or if her phone and email had redirected people to another employee, the 
account would have been opened considerably earlier than 1 September. So I consider 
Metro is liable for S Ltds financial loss which resulted from having to exchange the funds 
into a sterling account rather than arriving into a Euro account where no exchange would 
have been needed.
Metro has said that between 2 September, and the eventual opening of the account on 30 
October, S Ltd received further Euro incoming payments. Metro argues that this means the 
opening of a Euro account wasnt time sensitive. I dont agree with this argument. Metro has 
made a very general point here which ignores that fact that, for some customers in certain 
circumstances, it might be urgent for them. It seems to me that the fact that S Ltd had 
multiple incoming Euro payments means it was urgent to have a Euro account  not that it 
wasnt. And in any event, Mr R has explained why it was urgent in the circumstances here 
and Im persuaded that it was for S Ltd.
However, I dont intend to award any financial loss for Euro transactions between the one on 
2 September and 30 October. Thats because  for entirely understandable reasons  Mr R 
was considering whether or not to change to another bank, so he didnt return the application 
forms until 18 October. That was ultimately Mr Rs choice here and, while I may understand 
this  I dont think itd be fair for Metro to be held liable for any losses Mr R says he incurred 
as a result of this.
Ive also considered the inconvenience which S Ltd suffered as a result of the difficulties in 
getting a reply from the relationship manager, and subsequent failure of the branch to return 
the phone call after the adviser emailed the branch on 26 August. I consider that £150, 
which Metro has already agreed, is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order Metro Bank PLC to pay S Ltd:- £2,188 representing the financial loss S Ltd suffered as a result of not having a 
foreign currency account when it received an incoming payment on 2 September 
2021; and 
- £150 compensation for inconvenience. I understand Metro has paid S Ltd £25, 
leaving an additional £125 to pay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman