DRN-2707662
The complaint
Mr B complains that Greenlight Credit Limited, trading as Varooma, (Varooma), lent to him 
in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr B was given nine loans by Varooma from September 2014 to May 2018. Mr B has 
successfully repaid the loans. The date of repayment of Loan 9 is unknown but Varooma has 
since told this Service that Mr B had no active accounts. A summary of Mr Bs borrowing 
history is as follows:-
Loan 
numberDate of loan Loan amount Repayment date Number of 
monthly 
repayments
1. 24/9/2014 £2,500 29/9/2014 36
2. 29/9/2014 £4,800 1/9/2015 36
3. 1/9/2015 £4,600 1/12/2015 36
4. 1/12/2015 £2,000 6/1/2016 36
5. 6/1/2016 £3,650 9/1/2017 36
6. 9/1/2017 £2,000 18/4/2017 36
7. 18/4/2017 £3,650 1/11/2017 60
8. 1/11/2017 £4,600 15/5/2018 60
9. 15/5/2018 £5,800 Unknown 60
The loans were log book loans. They were granted on the basis that Mr B provided 
Varooma with a bill of sale for his car. This meant that if Mr B didnt make his loan 
repayments, Varooma could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of the car.
Mr B said that if Varooma had carried out proper checks, the loans would not have been 
granted. On his penultimate application, Varooma asked him for three months bank 
statements and the loan was granted. On his last application, Mr B provided three months 
bank statements, and the loan was declined due to multiple transactions on the statements 
to gambling websites. Mr B said that this would have been evident on any of his previous 
bank statements if they had been asked for. Varooma would also have seen the amount of 
returned direct debits on his account, payday loan transactions, a debt management plan, 
missed payments and other loans indicating he was borrowing to pay off debt which 
ultimately could not be sustained. Mr B said that his repeat borrowing should have been an 
indicator to the lender that he was in financial difficulty.  Varooma would also have seen from 
his credit record that he had missed payments, defaults, a debt management plan and that 
he was in financial difficulty. Mr B said that Varooma didnt ask him about his expenses in 
enough detail.
In its final response letter, Varooma said it had reviewed Mr Bs accounts and the 
information he provided at each application. From what he had provided, it was evident the 
loan was affordable. Varooma later checked the information provided by Mr B to confirm it 
was true and accurate. There were no concerns raised and the loans were granted. The loan 
repayment history also showed that the loans were affordable and at no stage was it notified 
of any hardship preventing Mr B from making payments towards his accounts. 
Our adjudicators view
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Bs complaint about Loans 2 to 9 should be upheld. 
With regard to Loan 1, he said that given the term of the loan, the amounts Mr B had to 
repay, what was apparent about his circumstances at the time and his history with Varooma, 
he didnt think it wouldve been proportionate for Varooma to ask Mr B for the amount of
information needed to show the lending was unsustainable.
Varooma didnt provide a reply to the adjudicators view.
As the complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and to Varooma on 16 February 2021. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that when Varooma lent to Mr B the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
The CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
The relevant rules said that a lender must undertake a reasonable assessment of 
creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the customer not making the repayments, 
as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to make repayments. 
The rules didnt set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess
creditworthiness. However, the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over 
the full term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts 
and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. Whilst it is down to the lender to 
decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out, these should be reasonable and 
proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of the term, the 
frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit.
So, Varoomas assessment needed to be flexible  what was reasonable for one borrower 
might not be so for another, or what might be reasonable for a borrower for one loan 
application might not be so for the same borrower for a different loan. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
  the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
  the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
  the longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit was likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make 
repayments for an extended period) and
  the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing might 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Bs case, Id considered the 
following questions:
- Did Varooma complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing   
Mr Bs loan applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loans 
in a sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks 
have shown?
- Did Varooma make fair lending decisions?
- Was there a point at which the pattern or history of lending itself showed further 
borrowing would be unsustainable for Mr B?
I could see that Varoomas loan application process included gathering information from    
Mr B about his income and expenses. Mr B had signed an income and expenditure 
statement for each loan application. The statements were signed by Mr B to declare that the 
information hed provided was an accurate statement of his income and expenditure and 
proof of his ability to repay the loan. The statements also said that Mr B believed that his 
income was adequate for meeting the additional monthly loan commitment. 
Loan 1 was for £2,500 to be repaid by 36 monthly repayments of £215.28. The total amount 
Mr B needed to repay was £7,750 meaning he needed to repay £5,250 in interest for the 
amount hed borrowed. The interest rate was 70% with an APR of 154.27%.
Before Loan 1, I could see that Varooma asked Mr B for information about his income and 
expenses. It said it had carried out a credit check but no longer had this. A signed statement 
of Mr Bs income and expenses was attached to the Loan Agreement for Loan 1. 
The statement showed that Mr Bs expenses totalled £1,200 including £300 of other debt. It 
also showed that Mr B had a surplus income of £1,200. 
Id thought about Varoomas checks. CONC made it clear that the extent to which a lenders 
checks are proportionate depends on the type of credit, the associated cost and the risks to 
the borrower bearing in mind their financial situation. The rules and guidance also suggest 
that when income or expenditure is taken into account, checks are less likely to be 
proportionate where the lender relies solely on a statement of those matters made by the 
borrower. In Mr Bs circumstances, I didnt think it was reasonable for Varooma to base its 
assessment on the financial information Mr B had provided. 
I thought that Varoomas affordability assessment needed to be more detailed and contain a 
greater degree of verification, in order for it to be fair and proportionate. I thought this was 
especially the case as Mr B was entering into a substantial commitment with Varooma and it 
should have taken great care to ensure that he was able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
manner. I didnt think it was reasonable for Varooma to rely on expenditure information 
provided by Mr B without verifying it given the cost of the credit, that he needed to make 
monthly payments on Loan 1 of £215.28 for 36 months, and that there was the possibility of 
his losing his car if he didnt manage to keep up his repayments. 
Id not seen anything to show that Varooma took steps to do this. And as Varooma failed to 
take steps to verify the true state of Mr Bs finances before Loan 1, I didnt think the checks it 
carried out before providing this loan were fair or proportionate.
So, I thought that Varooma needed to do more to get a thorough understanding of Mr Bs 
financial position before agreeing to his first loan to reasonably assess the risk to Mr B of not 
managing to meet his repayments sustainably. It could have done this by, for example, requesting bank statements from Mr B or by asking for copies of bills and/or receipts for his 
expenses. 
So, Id thought about what Varooma wouldve seen if it had done what I considered to be 
proportionate checks. 
Mr B had provided us with his credit report and his bank statements at the time he applied 
for this loan. I wasnt suggesting that these were the checks that Varooma should have 
done. But I thought looking at these gave me the best picture of what the lender should have 
seen. Had it sought some verification of Mr Bs spending, I thought Varooma wouldve been 
in a better position to understand Mr Bs financial situation before it decided to lend to him. 
I noted that Mr Bs bank statements showed that his monthly income was around £2,478 and 
so it was a little more than hed declared to Varooma.
Id also seen on the credit report and bank statements that Mr B had taken out a high cost 
credit loan for £5,000 eight days before applying for Varoomas loan. He was repaying three 
existing short term loans and was paying two mail order accounts which had been in arrears 
since February 2014. He also had a credit card balance which was over its credit limit. All 
this suggested that he was likely having problems managing his finances. I thought there 
was a very real prospect that Mr B would need to borrow again in order to repay his new 
loan and that would likely have a significant adverse effect on his financial situation. 
In addition to this, Mr B had spent more than his income (around £2,647) on gambling in the 
month prior to Varoomas loan.  His spending on gambling was frequent enough throughout 
that month that it was more likely than not that it would continue in the same pattern and 
posed a risk to Mr B being able to repay the loan sustainably. In these circumstances, I 
didnt think that Varooma would have lent if it had known this, as I thought it ought to have if 
it had made better checks. And in these circumstances, I didnt think it would have been 
reasonable for Varooma to conclude that Mr B could simply reduce his gambling expenditure 
to allow him to afford the loan repayments.
So, I thought if Varooma had carried out what I considered to be proportionate checks, I 
thought it was likely it would have discovered Mr Bs relatively substantial expenditure on 
gambling and the full extent of Mr Bs financial commitments. I thought Varooma should 
reasonably have realised that Mr B was over committed financially and that he was having 
difficulty managing his finances. So, it was clear that further checks wouldnt have provided 
the assurance Varooma needed.
I thought Varooma ought reasonably to have realised that it was unlikely that Mr B wouldve 
been able to sustainably repay his loan. So, it ought to have concluded that it treated Mr B 
unfairly when it agreed to lend Loan 1 to him.
I noted that Loan 2 was taken out five days after Loan 1 and was for £4,800, almost double 
his previous loan. It was again to be repaid over 36 months with substantially higher monthly 
repayments than the previous loan. Loan 1 was repaid on the date Loan 2 was taken out. As 
Loan 2 was taken out so soon after Loan 1, the information provided by Mr B was the same 
as for Loan 1. Although Varooma said it had carried out a credit check, it wasnt able to 
provide us with a copy of this.
Again, for the same reasons as Id set out above, Id thought that Varooma needed to do 
more to get a thorough understanding of Mr Bs financial position before agreeing to Loan 2 
to reasonably assess the risk to Mr B of not managing to meet his repayments sustainably. 
And better checks would have likely shown again that Mr B was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay Loan 2 for the same reasons as Id explained for Loan 1. So, I didnt think 
Varooma should have lent Loan 2 to Mr B.
Mr B took out Loan 3 around a year after Loan 2. Loan 2 was repaid on the day Loan 3 was 
taken out.
The loan amount was £4,600 and was again to be repaid over 36 months. The total amount 
Mr B needed to repay was £13,570 meaning he needed to repay £8,970 in interest for the 
amount he borrowed. The interest rate was 60% with an APR of 141.11%.
Before Loan 3, I could see that Varooma had asked Mr B for information about his income 
and expenses. It said it had carried out a credit check but no longer had this. A signed 
statement of Mr Bs income and expenses was attached to the Loan Agreement for Loan 3. 
The statement showed that Mr Bs income was £2,500 and his expenses totalled £1,040 
which included no other debts. It also showed that Mr B had a surplus income of £683.06 
which seemed to be after the monthly repayment on Loan 3 was taken into account, 
although the figures didnt appear to be correct as the monthly repayment, expenses and 
surplus income totalled £2,100.
Nevertheless, for the same reasons as set out for Loan 1, Id thought that Varooma ought to 
have wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Bs 
financial circumstances before it agreed to give Loan 3 to him.
Id again looked at Mr Bs bank statements and credit report to see what better checks would 
have shown Varooma. It was clear from these that Mr B was still facing significant problems 
managing his money. He had a credit card account which had been defaulted less than four 
months earlier with a default balance of £835. He had four outstanding short term loans, the 
most recent of which was for £370 and had been taken out around two weeks before Mr Bs 
application for Loan 3. He also had a high cost credit loan from another lender, a credit card 
balance was overlimit, and he was making repayments to a debt management plan. In 
addition, Mr B was still gambling heavily and was spending around 55% of his income on 
online gambling. So, I didnt think, having seen that information, a responsible lender would 
have concluded that it was likely Mr B could meet the repayments on Loan 3 in a sustainable 
manner. So, I didnt think Varooma should have agreed to give Mr B this loan. 
Mr B took out Loan 4 three months after Loan 3, and hed repaid Loan 3 on the same day. 
The loan amount had reduced to £2,000 and was to be repaid by 36 monthly payments of 
£172.22.  Before Loan 4, I could see that Varooma had again asked Mr B for information 
about his income and expenses. It said it had carried out a credit check but no longer had 
this. A signed statement of Mr Bs income and expenses was attached to the                  
Loan Agreement for Loan 4. It showed that Mr B had no other debts and that he had a 
disposable income of £1,402.78.
Nevertheless, for the same reasons as set out for Loan 1, I thought that Varooma ought to 
have wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Bs 
financial circumstances before it agreed to give Loan 4 to him.
Id again looked at Mr Bs bank statements and credit report to see what better checks would 
have shown Varooma. It was clear from these that Mr B was still facing significant problems 
managing his money. He had five outstanding short term loans. Hed borrowed three short 
term loans totalling over £1,200 in the previous month, and two short term loans totalling 
over £1,200 in October 2015. One of the latter loans was already in arrears. Mr B had 
missed payments on his mortgage in September and November 2015. Hed taken out 
another high cost credit loan for £7,300 around two months before his application for Loan 4 and still had another one which was active. He had a credit card balance which was overlimit 
and in arrears, and he was still making repayments to a debt management plan. In addition,     
Mr B was still gambling very heavily and was spending around 86% of his income on online 
gambling. So, I didnt think, having seen that information, a responsible lender would have 
concluded that it was likely Mr B could meet the repayments on Loan 4 in a sustainable 
manner. So, I didnt think Varooma should have agreed to give Mr B this loan. 
The amount of Loan 5 had increased to £3,650. Mr B repaid Loan 4 on the day Loan 5 was 
taken out. It was Mr Bs fifth loan in almost 16 months. And as each loan had been taken out 
on the same day a previous loan was repaid, there had been no gaps in his borrowing from 
Varooma. I thought the multiple loans ought to have suggested to Varooma by the time of 
Loan 5 that Mr B was having significant problems managing his money.
In addition, looking at the overall history and pattern of lending, I thought by the time of   
Loan 5, Varooma ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Bs indebtedness in 
a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so it shouldnt have provided further 
loans. I said this because
Loan 5 was the fourth successive loan Mr B had borrowed from Varooma without any 
gap in borrowing;
Mr B wasnt making any inroads to the amounts he owed Varooma. By Loan 5, the 
amount being borrowed was substantially larger than the amount of Loan 1 and 
almost double his previous loan;
Mr B had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Varooma over 
an extended period. And by taking out Loan 5, Mr B would have been indebted for 
another 36 months and would have continued to be reliant on this expensive credit 
for an extended period;
The fact that all the loans were repaid didnt mean that they were repaid sustainably, 
or without causing Mr B undue difficulty. 
I thought that Mr B had lost out because these loans had the effect of unfairly and 
excessively prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness to Varooma by allowing him to take expensive 
credit over an extended period of time. Hed continued to borrow from Varooma for over 28 
months more. These loans were very expensive, and I thought that the overall cost of these 
loans unfairly prolonged Mr Bs already difficult financial position. In addition, the presence of 
these high cost loans on Mr Bs credit file was likely to have had implications for Mr Bs 
ability to access mainstream credit.  
So as a responsible lender I didnt think Varooma should have provided Loans 5 to 9 to      
Mr B either. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr B or Varooma my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to order Varooma to put things right as set out 
below. 
Putting things right  - what Varooma needs to do
As I intend to conclude that Varooma was irresponsible to have lent to Mr B, he shouldnt 
have to pay any interest, fees or charges for Loans 1 to 9. 
So Varooma should:
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr B on Loans 1 to 9.Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in relation to Loans 1 
to 4;
Remove all information about Loans 5 to 9 from Mr Bs credit file. By this point, I think 
any information recorded about further borrowing was likely to be adverse. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Varooma to take off tax from this interest. Varooma must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr B responded to my provisional decision to say he had no information to add.
Varooma responded to my provisional decision to say, in summary, that it wanted to see 
some examples of Mr Bs gambling. It had provided this Service with one of Mr Bs bank 
statements on which it saw no gambling. Varooma also said that Loan 1 was closed over six 
years previously and it didnt have access to this information any more. So, it wanted to get 
the loan removed from the resolution as it had no access to payment dates nor verified 
payment amounts to be able to refund this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
With regard to Varoomas queries, I note that the lender has asked for gambling examples. I 
have referred above to substantial gambling before Loans 1 to 4 and provided information 
about the extent of Mr Bs gambling. Before Loans 5 to 9, I hadnt referred to gambling 
above. Id upheld these loans as by the time of Loan 5, I thought Varooma ought reasonably 
to have realised it was increasing the consumers indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful. The bank statement Varooma sent us was for the period 
30 April to 15 May 2018, just before Loan 9. I hadnt referred to gambling transactions before 
Loan 9 in my provisional decision. So, I wouldnt have expected Varooma to have seen 
examples of gambling in that statement.
With regard to Loan 1, I note this was repaid on 29 September 2014, five days after being 
taken out. It was repaid from the proceeds of Loan 2 and Mr B received £2,141.84 from the
remaining proceeds of Loan 2. It appears that no other payments were made between Mr B 
taking the loan out and repaying it from his bank account. I had seen all this
information on Mr Bs bank statement. It would seem that £2,658.16 was retained from
Loan 2 to repay Loan 1. So, it would appear that Mr B was charged £158.16 in interest
and/or charges on 29 September 2014 to repay Loan 1. I hope this information will enable 
Varooma to provide redress for Loan 1.
Otherwise, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. It follows that I uphold this complaint and require Varooma to pay Mr B some 
compensation and take the steps set out above.
  
  My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Greenlight Credit Limited, trading as Varooma, to pay the compensation and to take 
the steps set out above under the heading Putting things right  - what Varooma needs to 
do.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman