DRN-3950277
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement
with MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).
What happened
In November 2021, Mr M entered into a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo to acquire 
a used car first registered in February 2016, that had travelled around 46,135 miles. The 
total cash price of the car was approximately £15,398. The total amount payable was 
approximately £18,097. Mr M paid a deposit of around £4,000 plus part-exchanged his old 
car for around £1,000, so the monthly repayments on the agreement were around £218 over 
a 59-month period followed by one final monthly payment of around £219.
In May 2023, Mr M wrote to MotoNovo and said there are faults with the car. In this 
correspondence he told MotoNovo that he sent a letter to the supplying dealership which 
explained that there was water ingress into the boot of the car causing dampness and mould 
growth. Mr M also said that there were issues with either the clutch, the gearbox, and the 
start/stop mechanism on the car because, at the time of the correspondence, he said that he 
has experienced two incidences of the car violently shaking when pressing the stop/start 
button, and one incidence of the clutch failing to return to the correct position. The letter also 
explained that he could hear knocking from the rear of the car when ascending from first to 
second gear. 
Mr M said that he raised the issue in February 2022 with the supplying dealership and the 
car was booked in for repairs at the supplying dealership in April 2022, but he said that only 
a minor repair to the windscreen wiper had been done. Mr M said the dealership told him 
that the leak to the boot had been confirmed, but that it would not be repaired by the 
dealership. They did however offer to repair it at a reduced rate of £70.00 per hour as a 
'goodwill gesture'. Mr M said they were unable to approximate how many hours this repair 
would take, and he said he was informed that it could be an hour or seven. And he said the 
dealership told him that they couldnt find a fault with the clutch or gear system. In his 
correspondence to the dealership he said hed given them an opportunity to investigate and 
correct the faults with the car but, as there wasnt a satisfactory conclusion, he said he would 
like to reject it. At the time the dealership inspected the car in April 2022 the car had 
travelled around 50,422 miles. 
In June 2022, MotoNovo wrote to Mr M saying they werent upholding his complaint based 
on the car inspection they had arranged. They quoted parts of the report that said that under 
normal driving conditions there was no undue knocking noise from the car. When Mr M then 
drove the car, and did so enthusiastically, there was a noticeable knocking noise coming 
from the rear of the car, maybe from the rear differential or drive line mounting. The report 
said that when they inspected the car boot for water ingress there was no evidence of this. 
However, there was evidence of corrosion staining on the boot seal into the polystyrene 
around the spare wheel; And there were some signs of dry rust corrosion staining. The 
report concluded that there was visible evidence of previous water ingress into the boot, 
however, the report said that this does appear to have been rectified. The quote from the 
report also said that there was rust staining but that there was no evidence of any mould 
growth. As such, the report concluded that the car didnt display any noticeable faults 
relating to water ingress, the clutch system, or the stop/start system. There was a noticeable 
knock from the rear of the car when driven as if it was on a racetrack. But when driven 
normally, the assessor thought the car was commensurate to its age and recorded mileage. 
And the quote from the report concluded that the car could return to service and the selling 
agent would not have responsibility. As such, on the basis of this report, MotoNovo said that 
the dealership was not liable, and thus they were not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Mr M was unhappy with this, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought that, due to the fault with the water ingress, the car wasnt of
satisfactory quality when supplied  and that MotoNovo needed to cover the cost of repairing 
this fault. The investigator also thought that MotoNovo needed to pay Mr M £100 for any 
distress or inconvenience thats been caused, but he didnt think that they needed to pay for 
any other repairs. 
MotoNovo disagreed with the investigator as they didnt think that any of the cars faults were 
present or developing at the point of sale. 
Mr M also disagreed with the investigator and provided his own report. Based on this report, 
Mr M said that the clutch issue and the stop/start system issues could not be identified at the 
time of inspection so, he said, his continued focus is on the other items his report did identify 
to be 'safety critical'. Those two things being the leak to the boot, and the other being the 
knocking sound coming from the back of the car. He also said there was a third issue with 
the paintwork which he said he did bring to MotoNovos attention previously, but their report 
didnt take it into consideration. 
As the parties didnt agree with the investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
After reviewing the case, I issued a provisional decision on 26 January 2023. In the 
provisional decision I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances. 
Mr M acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement, which is a regulated consumer
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. MotoNovo is the
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and is responsible for dealing with
complaints about their quality.
Mr M believes that he should be able to reject the car.
MotoNovo say that the faults werent present or developing at the point of sale, so they dont 
think they are responsible for putting things right. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers hire purchase agreements such as the one Mr 
M entered into. Under a hire purchase agreement, there is an implied term that the goods 
supplied will be of satisfactory quality. The CRA says that goods will be considered of satisfactory quality where they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory  taking into account the description of the goods, the price paid and other 
relevant circumstances. I think in this case those relevant circumstances include, but are not 
limited to, the age and mileage of the car and the cash price. The CRA says the quality of 
the goods includes their general state and condition, as well as other things like their fitness 
for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability.
In Mr Ms case the car he acquired was used, with a cash price of around £15,398. It had 
covered around 46,135 miles and was more than five years old when he acquired it. So, I 
would have different expectations of it compared to a brand-new car. And as with any car, 
there is an expectation that there will be ongoing maintenance and upkeep costs, and that 
there are parts that will naturally wear over time. In second-hand cars, its more likely parts 
will need to be replaced sooner, or be worn faster, than in a brand-new car. So MotoNovo 
would not be responsible for anything that was due to normal wear and tear whilst in Mr Ms 
possession. But given the age, mileage and price paid, I think its fair to say that a 
reasonable person wouldnt expect anything significant to be wrong shortly after the car was 
acquired.
The CRA sets out that Mr M has a short term right to reject the car within the first 30 days if 
the car is of unsatisfactory quality, however, he would need to ask for rejection within that 
time. Mr M would not be able to retrospectively exercise his short term right of rejection at a 
later date. Mr M could only reject the car within the first 30 days, and only if he expressed his 
wish to do so. Mr M raised the car issues with the supplying dealership in February 2022. 
This is more than 30 days after Mr M acquired the car. But even if the initial faults did occur 
within the first 30 days, Mr M would not be able to reject the car now. 
The CRA says that, if the car acquired wasnt of satisfactory quality, or not as described, 
then Mr M would be entitled to still return it after 30 days, but Mr M doesnt have the right to 
reject the car until he has exercised his right to repair. So, Mr M doesnt have an automatic 
right to return the car. For me to conclude that Mr M can exercise his right to reject the car, I 
would need to see that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, because the faults he complains 
about were likely to have been present or developing at the point of sale, and that MotoNovo 
had one attempt at a repair. 
Mr M has emailed us pictures and videos of the faults with the water ingress at the back of 
the car. Also, Ive seen copies of the report commissioned by MotoNovo, and copies of the 
report arranged by Mr M. In addition, Ive seen an invoice from the dealership from April 
2022 when the dealership did their own checks. And from the pictures, the videos, the 
invoice, and both of the reports, I think, most likely, this fault is still present and has not been 
fixed as suggested by MotoNovos report. Ill explain.
An invoice from the dealership who performed their own checks in April 2022, states: 
Confirmed boot water ingress. I know MotoNovos report, which was completed in June 
2022, indicates that, in their opinion, the car does display evidence of previous water ingress 
to the boot, but that this does appear to have been rectified. But Ive not been presented with 
any evidence which shows that any repairs were completed. And Ive considered their 
report, but this report also states that the inspector was unable to carry out a smoke test due 
to the parking situation and where the car was located. Therefore, Ive taken into 
consideration that, had this smoke test been completed, the report may have been more 
conclusive. As such, Ive also taken into consideration other evidence available to me. 
Other evidence includes pictures and videos provided by Mr M. These show that the water 
issue is still present. Plus, the report provided by Mr M, completed in November 2022, also 
states that at the time of inspection the area was soaking wet, and that the covering and 
acoustic matting were found to be saturated with water. The report states that the water may be entering the interior at the height of the rear lamps, close to the tailgate, but it also 
explained that the tailgate was sitting approximately 2mm low in its aperture. It said it is 
possible that this was allowing the water to ingress. It also states that: A pungent damp 
odour was noted, and mould spores had started to develop suggesting a long-standing 
problem. So, I think had the previous water ingress to the boot been rectified, as suggested 
by MotoNovos report, I think its most likely that this amount of water saturation and 
evidence of mould spores wouldnt have been present at the time of this inspection. 
Ive also taken into consideration that both reports speak of rust and corrosion, which judging 
by the pictures available, and the descriptions of the affected areas in the reports, for these 
to form to such an extent, they, most likely, have been present or developing due to the 
water ingress being an issue for a significant amount of time. 
Taking all of that above into consideration, I think most likely there is something wrong with 
the car and I think, most likely, the water ingress issue was already present at the point of 
supply. From all the evidence available Ive also seen how significant this issue is and taking 
everything into account  including the price paid, the age and usage of the car, and the fault 
in question  Im not persuaded the car was of satisfactory quality when Mr M took delivery. 
Given the age, mileage and price paid, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person 
wouldnt expect such water ingress and the amount of rust to be present inside the affected 
area of the car.
For me to conclude that Mr M can exercise his right to reject the car, as mentioned above, I 
would need to see that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality because the faults he complains 
about were likely to have been present or developing at the point of sale, and that 
MotoNovos one attempt at a repair has failed. Or that Mr M has asked for a repair or 
replacement, but the dealership hasnt done so in a reasonable time and without significant 
inconvenience to him. 
Mr M said that in February 2022, approximately three months after acquiring the car, he 
made the supplying dealership aware of the issues he was experiencing. And he said the car 
was booked for repairs at the supplying dealership in April 2022. But that during this visit the 
supplying dealership told him that even though the leak to the boot had been confirmed, it 
would not be repaired by them, and they only offered to repair it at a reduced rate of £70 per 
hour as a 'goodwill gesture'. So, Ive considered that Mr M made the dealership aware of the 
faults with the car within six months of acquiring it, and Ive considered that he did give the 
dealership one attempt at a repair, but they refused to do the repair without Mr M 
contributing financially. As the supplying dealership had the one chance of repair, I think in 
this case, it is fair and reasonable that Mr M is allowed to exercise his right to reject the car, 
and the hire purchase agreement should be cancelled with nothing further to pay.  
Even if MotoNovo was to argue that they should still have a chance of repair, as the visit to 
the dealership in question was only to inspect and not to repair the car, I still think it would be 
reasonable for Mr M to be allowed to reject the car now because the dealership hasnt done 
the repairs in a reasonable time and without a significant inconvenience to Mr M. A long time 
has passed since February 2022, when Mr M made the dealership aware of the issues, and 
nothing has been fixed on the car. After the visit to the service department of the supplying 
dealership he also had further communication with them, and they still refused to fix the 
water ingress fault, as they felt it wasnt covered under his warranty. Mr M was 
inconvenienced by having to attend the dealership, as well as make time for MotoNovos 
report and, in the end, also had to get his own report to prove that the fault with the water 
ingress was still an issue. So, overall I think it is fair and reasonable that Mr M be able to 
reject the car because the repairs have not been done in a reasonable time and without 
significant inconvenience to him.Mr M has also mentioned other faults with the car, besides the water ingress, as reasons 
why he thinks the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. But considering that 
I think he should be able to reject the car I dont need to consider these in this decision. 
MotoNovo should refund Mr Ms deposit of around £4,000 plus the £1,000 he got for his part-
exchanged car. 
Any adverse information should be removed from his credit file. The credit agreement should 
be marked as settled in full on his credit file, or something to that effect, and should not show 
as voluntary termination.
Mr M has still been able to use the car with the fault in question and during this time the car 
has travelled around 8,700 miles. So, I think it is fair that MotoNovo can keep the monthly 
payments he has made towards the finance agreement.   
Mr M has told us that he bought two new tyres at a cost of £434 due to him acquiring a 
sidewall puncture and being advised to change both tyres at the same time as the tread was 
low or near the limit. And he told us that he paid to have the vehicle serviced as part of his 
warranty agreement and this cost around £150. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to 
ask MotoNovo to refund these costs to him, as he incurred these while getting use of the car. 
I also think that this matter has caused Mr M a lot of distress and inconvenience when trying 
to resolve it. He had to take the car back to the dealership and he had to correspond 
extensively with the dealership and MotoNovo, as well as to make time for the two 
inspections that were carried out on the car. Which I think he would not have had to do had 
MotoNovo supplied him with a car that was of a satisfactory quality. So, I think MotoNovo 
should pay him £200 in compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
MotoNovo should also refund him the cost of the inspection report he had carried out in 
November 2022 on production of a valid receipt or invoice. If Mr M has already paid for this 
work to be carried out, interest should be added at 8% simple per year, calculated from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, I intend to uphold this complaint and direct MotoNovo Finance 
Limited to:
1. Cancel the hire purchase agreement with nothing further to pay; 
2. Collect the car at no cost to Mr M;
3. Refund the deposit of around £4,000 plus the £1,000 Mr M got for his part-
exchanged car;
4. Refund the cost of the inspection report Mr M had carried out in November 2022 on 
production of a valid receipt or invoice. If Mr M has already paid for this work to be 
carried out, interest should be added at 8% simple per year, calculated from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement;
5. Pay Mr M £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused;
6. Remove any adverse information from Mr Ms credit file. The credit agreement 
should be marked as settled in full on his credit file, or something to that effect, and 
should not show as voluntary termination.
If MotoNovo Finance Limited considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of 
my award, it should provide Mr M with a certificate showing how much they have taken off so 
he can reclaim that amount, if he is eligible to do so.I asked both parties to provide me with any additional comments or information they would 
like me to consider by 9 February 2023.
Mr M responded and said he had nothing further to add.
And MotoNovo responded and said they had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M nor MotoNovo had any further comments or evidence to provide, so I see no reason to 
reach a different conclusion to what I reached in my provisional decision (copied above).
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I require MotoNovo Finance 
Limited to:
1. Cancel the hire purchase agreement with nothing further to pay; 
2. Collect the car at no cost to Mr M;
3. Refund the deposit of around £4,000 plus the £1,000 Mr M got for his part-
exchanged car;
4. Refund the cost of the inspection report Mr M had carried out in November 2022 on 
production of a valid receipt or invoice. If Mr M has already paid for this work to be 
carried out, interest should be added at 8% simple per year, calculated from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement;
5. Pay Mr M £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused;
6. Remove any adverse information from Mr Ms credit file. The credit agreement 
should be marked as settled in full on his credit file, or something to that effect, and 
should not show as voluntary termination.
If MotoNovo Finance Limited considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of 
my award, they should provide Mr M with a certificate showing how much they have taken 
off so he can reclaim that amount, if he is eligible to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman