DRN-2358265
The complaint
Ms H says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a 
mortgage.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out with a further advance on a mortgage in 2002. 
It was paid for with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. Ms H applied for 
the PPI in branch.
I sent Lloyds and Ms H a provisional decision on 2 November 2020, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Lloyds recommended the policy to Ms H, which means it had to check it was right for her. 
But I dont think it was right for her.
Ms H was self-employed. And the policy included conditions which made it harder for self-
employed people to claim unemployment benefit. The policy didnt cover voluntary 
liquidation of your company if self-employed. This suggests that any liquidation of the 
business would have to have been involuntary, which would have been a high test for Ms H 
to meet. So it was harder for her to claim the unemployment benefit than she mightve 
expected. 
I dont think Ms H wouldve bought the policy if Lloyds had made clear it wasnt right for her. 
So I think Ms H has probably lost out because of the flaws in this sale. 
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
16 November 2020. Lloyds agreed with the provisional decision, and Ms H didnt send me 
anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments, and Lloyds have agreed to the 
compensation I proposed. So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as before.
Putting things right
Lloyds Bank PLC needs to put Ms H in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Lloyds should:
Pay Ms H back the amount she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% simple a year.
If Ms H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Lloyds can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give Ms H a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. Ms H can claim back the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Hs complaint, and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to put things right in the way I set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman