DRN-3433180
The complaint
Ms D and Miss M complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont agree to Miss M being 
removed from their joint mortgage so Ms D can take it over on her own.
What happened
Ms D and Miss M, two friends, bought a property together with a mortgage from Barclays.
Miss M has now decided to move out and buy her own property, so they applied to Barclays 
for Miss M to be released from their joint mortgage.
Ms D says she completed the application in September 2019 and Barclays agreed to it and 
sent her a mortgage offer in her sole name. So it instructed solicitors to act jointly for them 
and to start the process of transferring the property and completing the change to the 
mortgage.
The solicitors said they could not progress matters because they hadnt received any 
instructions from Barclays. But Barclays told Ms D that it had instructed the solicitors and 
she should chase them instead.
In January 2020 Barclays issued a new mortgage offer (following a change of name by 
Ms D). But by March 2020 the transfer had still not completed.
In March 2020, the UK entered the first coronavirus pandemic lockdown. Ms D and Miss M 
were therefore concerned to make sure the application completed as quickly as possible. 
The solicitors assured them that the final paperwork had been completed and sent to 
Barclays.
Ms D contacted Barclays via her mortgage adviser. The adviser said that Barclays said Ms D 
and Miss M had withdrawn the application. Ms D contacted Barclays direct, who told her the 
solicitors had closed due to lockdown.
Ms D was able to contact the solicitors, who were unable to explain the delay. By now, in 
April 2020, the mortgage offer had expired. So Ms D and Miss M had to re-apply. Barclays 
re-considered their application, but reduced the amount it was willing to allow Ms D to take 
over on her own, meaning the mortgage balance would now have to be reduced first. Ms D 
considered applying to a new lender, but doing so would incur an early repayment charge 
(ERC) as they were still in a fixed rate period.
Ms D managed to raise the additional funds by borrowing from friends and family. Barclays 
then re-considered the application  only to reduce the balance it would agree to transfer 
further. It said it would not consider her full overtime pay as part of the affordability 
assessment, even though Ms D said it was guaranteed overtime.
Ms D and Miss M complained. Barclays said that it didnt know why there had been delays 
and advised Ms D to contact the solicitors. It said the expired offer could not be extended. It 
suggested they wait until pandemic restrictions had eased, when it might change its lending 
criteria back to what they were before, making the mortgage affordable for Ms D again.
The ERC period has now expired and Ms D has been able to go elsewhere, releasing 
Miss M from the mortgage. But they complain about the delays, and the resulting costs, 
distress and inconvenience  and the strain on the friendship  that resulted.
Our investigator thought that most of the delay was caused by the solicitors. But he noted 
that Barclays had instructed the solicitors and hadnt done enough to get matters progressed 
in a reasonable timescale. He thought Barclays should pay Ms D and Miss M £500 
compensation for its part in the upset and inconvenience that resulted.
Barclays didnt accept that. It said while it had instructed the solicitors it didnt have the 
resources to chase applications itself and that Ms D and her mortgage adviser should have 
done that. So the case came to me for a decision to be made. Although I reached the same 
outcome as the investigator, I did so for different reasons. So I issued a provisional decision 
to allow the parties to comment on my thinking before I make a final decision.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said:
In this case Ive seen evidence from Ms D, from her mortgage adviser, and Ive seen emails 
from the solicitors explaining their position, as well as emails from Barclays. Ive set out 
above the broad timeline of events, which isnt contested. What is contested is who is at fault 
for the delay. So Ill need to review the evidence about that, and come to my own findings. 
Barclays originally issued a mortgage offer in October 2019. Ms D asked for the offer to be 
amended as she had changed her name. A revised mortgage offer was issued on 
15 January 2020, expiring 27 March 2020. This was a variation of the original mortgage, 
remaining on the same fixed rate until January 2021.
Barclays says it instructed solicitors Ill call E in October 2019, and in turn E instructed 
another firm Ill call R in December 2019. It says this is because E doesnt deal with 
properties in Scotland, so had to refer to R.
Ive seen correspondence from both R and the mortgage adviser setting out their versions of 
events.
R said that they were instructed by Barclays in mid-December 2019. They were progressing 
the application. But on 24 March 2020, as part of lockdown restrictions, the offices of the 
Registers of Scotland closed without notice. This meant that all land transactions in Scotland 
 including property title transfers and re-mortgages, as in this case, could not be 
progressed. And this in turn meant that the deadline for completion of 27 March 2020 could 
not be met. The solicitors said that Barclays had closed its offices too, which meant they 
could not communicate with Barclays. New procedures were put in place a few weeks later  
but by then Ms Ds mortgage offer had expired.
Ive checked the guidance issued by the Registers of Scotland at the time, and I can see that 
on 24 March 2020 it issued a notification that it had closed to applications. However, on 
25 March 2020 there was a dedicated phone line made available for transactions that had to 
complete that day. And on 26 March, there was an announcement by the Law Society of 
Scotland that solicitors should not progress housing transactions  though there was by now 
a process in place for the Registers of Scotland to deal with urgent transactions.I dont know if R tried to make use of the urgent application process between 25 March and 
when the offer expired on 27 March. I have no power over the solicitors and if Ms D and 
Miss M have any concerns over whether the solicitors acted promptly or not, they may wish 
to contact the solicitors or the Scottish Legal Complaints Commission1 - noting there are time 
limits for doing so.
The mortgage adviser said that she had been chasing Barclays throughout to get the 
application processed and the mortgage moved to completion. She tried to persuade 
Barclays to extend the mortgage offer once it expired in March, but Barclays was unwilling to 
do so. By April it had changed its lending criteria in light of the covid-19 lockdown and was 
no longer willing to lend Ms D the full amount. The adviser said she asked Barclays to 
reconsider on the basis that the first offer had been issued six months earlier and had the 
solicitors been instructed promptly the mortgage would have completed before 27 March, but 
it was still unwilling to do so.
Ms D and Miss M therefore waited for the ERC to expire, and Ms D moved to another lender 
in February 2021, releasing Miss M from the mortgage.
Barclays says that it has spoken to R direct to investigate what happened, and R has said 
that it needed documents from Ms D to prove her identity, but Ms D didnt provide them until 
mid-February. But Barclays hasnt been able to provide us with evidence of this.
Ms D says that she was in regular contact with R and chasing them to provide an update on 
progress, but nothing was heard from Barclays  but Barclays says R requested redemption 
statements for the previous mortgage in February, which suggests it was ready to proceed 
then.
Ive taken all this evidence into account. Much of it is contradictory. There are a number of 
parties involved here, and each seems to be blaming the others for the delay.
As I said above, I have no power over the solicitors  and the same is true of the mortgage 
adviser and indeed of Ms D and Miss M themselves.
Ill therefore focus on where I think Barclays went wrong in this case  and in my view theres 
one crucial factor here.
Barclays instructed E to carry out the conveyancing work in October 2019. But E does not 
deal with cases involving Scottish property, and so E passed the work on to R in 
December 2019. If Barclays had instructed Scottish solicitors direct, in October, that two 
month delay would not have happened. And had that been done its more likely than not that 
the re-mortgage would have completed before the offer expired in March 2020.
That on its own is enough, in my view, for me to uphold this complaint. Even if Barclays is 
right that the solicitors delayed matters, that Ms D didnt provide the solicitors with required 
information and the mortgage adviser should have been more pro-active  all or some of 
which may or may not be true  the fact remains that the whole process started two months 
later than it should have done because Barclays instructed a solicitor that couldnt do the 
work.
Im satisfied that  whatever the faults of other parties may or may not have been  Ms Ds 
re-mortgage would have completed in time but for this error on Barclays part.
1 www.scottishlegalcomplaints.org.uk Its therefore fair that Barclays compensate Ms D and Miss M for the distress and 
inconvenience they were caused  Ms D in having to wait for and chase completion, and 
having it fall through at the last minute, Miss M for the delay this caused to her own plans, 
and both of them for the strain on their friendship that resulted. Im satisfied £500 is fair in all 
the circumstances.
The responses to my provisional decision
All parties accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again the findings in my provisional decision. Having done so  and 
noting that all parties accepted them  I see no reason to change my mind. For the reasons I 
gave, I uphold this complaint and Im satisfied £500 is fair compensation in all the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay 
Ms D and Miss M £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman