DRN-2423256
The complaint
Mr M complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA declined his claim against his travel
insurance policy following the cancellation of his trip. Reference to IPA includes reference to
its agents.
What happened
Mr M has travel insurance as a benefit of his credit card account.
On 8 August 2019, Mr M booked a return flight within the UK, departing 22 August 2019 and 
returning on 25 August 2019. On 9 August 2019, Mr M arranged to join a grouse shoot 
planned for 23 August 2019. On 13 August 2019, the tour operator arranging the shoot said 
that it was cancelled, as there were no grouse.
Mr M made a claim against his travel policy for his flight costs, as his ticket was       
non-refundable. I understand that he also claimed for pre-paid airport parking. IPA said 
that Mr Ms claim didnt fall within the terms of the policy, so it declined his claim.
Mr M says that the sole purpose of the trip was grouse shooting, which couldnt go ahead. 
So, it was necessary to cancel his trip. Mr M wants IPA to deal with his claim.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that IPA had treated 
Mr M fairly in declining his claim. The investigator thought that IPA should deal with the 
claim in accordance with the policy conditions.
IPA didnt agree with the investigator. It said that that Mr M could still have travelled, even if 
there were no grouse available. IPA said that Mr M was disinclined to travel and that he 
should seek a refund via the tour operator. The investigator considered what IPA said but it 
didnt change his view. IPA asked that the matter be considered by an ombudsman, so it
was passed to me.
My provisional decision
On 2 December 2020, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I indicated 
that I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. I said:
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant part of which says 
as follows:
 15 Section C  Cancellation or Curtailment Charges
[]
What is covered
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the Benefits Table per trip for any 
irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs and other pre-paid charges which 
you have paid or are contracted to pay together with any reasonable additional travel 
expenses incurred if;
a) cancellation of the trip is necessary and unavoidable.
The curtailment provisions arent relevant here, as Mr M didnt cut his trip short. 
Trip is defined as:
Any trip solely within the country of residence is only covered where you have
pre-booked at least two nights accommodation in a hotel, motel, holiday camp, bed and 
breakfast, holiday cottage or similar accommodation rented for a fee. Trips in the country 
of residence where you stay with friends or relations are not covered under these 
benefits.
Country of residence is defined as -the country in which you legally reside. If you live in 
the UK, the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man will be considered outside your country 
of residence
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that IPA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont think that IPA 
treated Mr M unfairly in declining his claim. Thats because:
Mr M has provided details of his non-refundable flights, which show an outbound 
and return journey within the UK on 22 August 2019 and 25 August 2019 
respectively.
Mr M says that he had made arrangements to stay with friends the night before 
the shoot (22 August 2019) and the night after the shoot (24 August 2019). I 
understand that the night of the shoot (23 August 2019), the tour operator had 
arranged hotel accommodation.
The policy provides that a trip like this, which was within Mr Ms country of 
residence, is only covered when Mr M had pre-booked at least two nights 
accommodation in certain sorts of accommodation rented for a fee. Mr M had 
arranged to stay with friends for two nights. Only one nights accommodation was 
pre-booked and rented for a fee  that which was booked by the tour operator. So, 
Mr Ms trip isnt covered under the policy.
In his correspondence with IPA, Mr M said that the trip was to another country. 
Whilst thats true in terms of how we usually refer to the countries that make up the 
UK, Im satisfied that Mr Ms country of residence is the UK. The UK is the 
sovereign country with its own government and its what residents of England put 
on UK passport applications in answering the question about where they live. So, 
the trip was within Mr Ms country of residence.It doesnt alter the outcome here, but I dont think that Mr Ms cancellation of his trip 
was necessary and unavoidable. The trip was between 22 and 25 August 2019. 
Grouse shooting on one day was cancelled. Whatever Mr M had planned for the 
other time during the trip was still available to him and he had two nights planned 
with friends. I dont doubt that Mr M was disappointed that the shoot was cancelled 
but, based on what Ive seen, that wasnt the sole purpose of his trip. So, I dont 
think that its unreasonable for IPA to say that Mr M could have travelled anyway.
Considering everything, I dont think that IPA was wrong to decline Mr Ms claim, 
albeit for different reasons than it indicated initially.
Responses to my provisional decision
IPA didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr M didnt agree. He said, in summary:
 The terms are vague and ambiguous and should be interpreted in his favour.
The policy doesnt define Country.
He has done this trip several times. The only reasons for the trip was shooting, 
nothing else. The logistics of flying means he needs to arrive a day before the 
shoot and leave a day after. 
He wasnt disinclined to travel: he didnt travel because the sole reason for the trip 
was cancelled. The cancellation was necessary and unavoidable.
His visit to friends was incidental to the reasons for the trip. 
The investigator was satisfied that the only reason for the trip was grouse shooting. 
IPA didnt refer to the definition of trip when it declined the claim. 
The definition of trip referred to in the provisional decision is different from a 
definition which appears elsewhere which doesnt mention that the accommodation 
should be at a formal cost nor in a commercial establishment. 
He had more than one nights accommodation booked and if the policy required a 
commercial booking for the accommodation, it should have said that. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As IPA didnt agree with the investigators view, Mr Ms complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. I consider the matter afresh and in its entirely. Im not bound by the 
views of either the investigator or IPA. My role is to consider all the evidence we receive, 
decide whats relevant to reaching a fair outcome, and come to a conclusion on how I think 
the dispute should be settled.  I dont agree that the cancellation provisions in the policy are unclear. Subject to the policy 
terms, theres cover if cancellation of the trip is necessary and unavoidable. But thats not 
the end of the matter, as I need to look at whether Mr Ms claim comes within the cover 
provided by the policy. I dont think it does here as Mr Ms trip doesnt come within the 
definition of trip in the policy: Mr M hadnt pre-booked at least two nights 
accommodation in a hotel, holiday camp, bed and breakfast, holiday cottage or similar 
accommodation rented for a fee. 
Mr M has referred to another definition of trip, but Im satisfied that Ive relied on the 
definition in Mr Ms policy, which is the relevant one in this case. 
Ive noted what Mr M says about the purpose of the trip. If the sole purpose of the trip was 
grouse shooting, rather than the mixed purpose of grouse shooting and visiting friends, Id 
expect that Mr M would have planned to travel home on 24 August 2019, following the 
planned grouse shoot and the night in the hotel accommodation arranged by the tour 
operator for 23 August 2019. But Mr M planned to return home on 25 August 2019, after a 
further night with friends. On balance, I dont think that I can safely conclude that the sole 
purpose of the trip was the days grouse shoot on 23 August 2019. As I said in my 
provisional decision, even if I reached a different conclusion about this, it wouldnt alter the 
outcome of the complaint, as Mr Ms trip doesnt come within the definition of trip in his 
policy. 
Ive considered whats been said but I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman