DRN-3641941
The complaint
Mr C says that he and his wife were mis-sold an upgrade of their Diamond Resorts holiday 
club membership  a points-based long-term holiday product. Because Mr C paid for the 
upgrade with his credit card, issued by National Westminster Bank Plc, he says that he has 
a claim against the bank in the same way as he has a claim against the seller of the 
upgrade. 
Mr C has appointed representatives to bring this complaint on his behalf, so any references 
to his evidence and arguments include evidence brought and arguments raised on his 
behalf. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C were members of Diamond Resorts Europe, a points-based holiday club. 
Members would buy points and could exchange them for holiday accommodation.
In October 2011 Mr and Mrs C were on holiday in the United States. They were invited to 
and attended what turned out to be a sales presentation at which they were encouraged to 
trade in the 10,500 points they held in Diamond Resorts Europe for 15,000 points and 
membership of the Diamond Resorts US Collection. They agreed to do so and signed 
contractual documentation recording what had been agreed. 
The sale contract recorded that the seller of the new membership rights was Diamond 
Resorts US Collection Development, LLC, a company registered in Delaware and based in 
Nevada. Ill refer to it as the Seller. The sale price was over $14,000 for 15,000 points. 
Much of the sale price was covered by credit given for the surrender of the 10,500 points 
which Mr and Mrs already held, and the balance of $7,069 was paid by Mr C using his 
NatWest credit card.     
The contract included the following further provisions: 
The Seller gave no warranties other than those set out in the contract (clause 13).
The written contract constituted the entire agreement between the parties; oral 
representations made by the Seller should not be relied upon by the purchaser (clause 
15).
The contract was to be governed by the laws of Nevada (clause 17). 
In August 2017 Mr C contacted NatWest to say he thought the change in the holiday club 
arrangements had been misrepresented to him. He said too that his membership in Diamond 
Resorts Europe was still continuing, as witnessed by an invoice for maintenance fees from 
Diamond Resorts Europe dating back to 2014. He said that he had a claim against the bank 
in respect of these matters. 
NatWest was not persuaded that the position had been misrepresented. And it noted that the 
invoice appeared to be calculated by reference to a points holding of 15,000, not 10,500. It 
appeared therefore to be in respect of the increased number of US points, not to the 
previous European points holding. 
Mr C referred the matter to this service. 
In the course of our investigation, Mr C said that he had realised quite soon after he returned 
from the US in 2011 that the US membership was no better than the European membership 
he already had. He had therefore contacted Diamond Resorts, which broadly accepted what 
he had said and arranged for his membership to be switched back. 
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He was not persuaded 
that there was sufficient evidence that there had been any misrepresentation. He thought too 
that the invoice for the maintenance fees represented US fees and that Mr C had not been 
charged for his previous European points holding. 
Mr C did not accept the investigators preliminary assessment and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.    
I did that and issued a provisional decision in which I said:
One effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that, subject to certain 
conditions, a customer who has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a 
supplier in respect of a transaction financed (in whole or in part) by a credit card payment 
can bring the same claim against the card provider. Im satisfied that the necessary 
conditions are met in this case. I must therefore consider Mr Cs arrangements with the 
Seller.
Mr Cs submissions include submissions that the Seller was in breach of: the Unfair Terms in 
Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999; the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading 
Regulations 2008; and The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts 
Regulations 2010. Given that the contract was governed by the laws of Nevada, that is 
rather surprising. These regulations do not apply to contracts governed by foreign law. 
As far as the claim in misrepresentation is concerned, I agree with the investigator that there 
is insufficient evidence that Mr C was induced into the contract by any statement or 
statements that were untrue.  
I note as well that clause 15 of the sale contract expressly said that Mr C should rely entirely 
on the written agreement and other documents  not on any oral representations. I am not 
aware of any reason why the Seller would not be able to rely on that provision if a claim were 
made against it. 
Mr C has provided a copy of an invoice dated 24 November 2014 in support of the claim that 
his European membership has not been cancelled as it should have been and that he 
continues to pay maintenance fees in respect of it.
The invoice refers to Diamond Resorts European Collection and includes a membership 
fee of £473.00 and a per point charge of £1,147.50. The notes say that the 2015 fees have 
been set at a membership fee of £473.00 plus £7.65 per 100 points owned. 
As the bank noted, 15,000 points at £7.65 for each 100 points owned amounts to £1,147.50. 
So the invoice was not in respect of Mr Cs previous ownership of 10,500 European points. 
I think the explanation for the apparent discrepancy in the number of points and the 
reference to the European Collection may lie in Mr Cs call to this service on 6 August 2018. 
The notes of that call say that, when he complained, Diamond Resorts agreed to bring Mr 
Cs membership back into its European arm. That would suggest a straight conversion of the 
US points into 15,000 European points  consistent with the November 2014 invoice. It might also explain why Mr C does not appear to have raised the issue at the time  as I think 
he would have done if he was being charged for two memberships.  
But in my view it raises a further issue. Mr C told us that he raised a complaint with Diamond 
Resorts and that he and Diamond Resorts agreed on a way to resolve it  by switching the 
membership from the US to Europe. If  as now appears to be the case  he reached an 
agreement with Diamond Resorts to settle his complaint, I do not believe it would now be fair 
to uphold a claim against the bank arising from the same subject matter. Even if he had a 
valid claim or claims against the Seller, they ceased to exist on settlement of them.           
In conclusion, I said that I was not minded to uphold Mr Cs complaint  for the reasons I had 
explained. 
Neither Mr C nor the bank has responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments in response to my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to reach any different conclusions about the complaint. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not believe I can fairly uphold Mr Cs 
complaint and I do not require National Westminster Bank Plc to take any further steps to 
resolve it.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman