DRN-2679710
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are complaining how HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as First Direct (HSBC),
handled changes to First Directs online banking platform.
For the purposes of this provisional decision I will refer mainly to Mr M throughout as he has
been managing the complaint.
  
What happened
On 12 July 2019 Mr M called HSBC to query why he was no longer able to access historic
statements online going back six years. Mr M explained he required access to the
statements to complete tax obligations, and that these had always been available online or
to download in a PDF format.
HSBC explained changes to the online banking platform meant it was now only possible to
see a rolling 12 months of statements online that could be downloaded. However, it was still
possible to see historic transactions going back further than this.
Mr M was disappointed as he says, despite his awareness of changes being made to the
online banking platform, the removal of historic statements older than 12 months was never
highlighted to customers. To add to this, Mr M said HSBC was misleading him as the online
landing page still suggested it was possible to access and download statements going back
six years.
HSBC were unable to restore Mr and Mrs Ms accounts to the old online platform. And they
werent able to arrange any sort of temporary access for Mr M to see and download historic
statements. The compromise was therefore to send Mr M six years of historic statements for
the accounts Mr and Mrs M held with HSBC by post.
It later came to light the only way HSBC were able to do this was by ordering around 123
separate statements. Mr M was therefore sent numerous separate envelopes, in no
particular order, which then required sorting out. HSBC also didnt send those statements
within the time-scale theyd promised of seven days.
HSBC tried to reach a resolution with Mr M who explained he didnt want compensation, he
just wanted his statements. Mr M also had to chase HSBC on two separate occasions
following his request to close one of the accounts.
During calls with Mr M, HSBC accepted that while new functions being added to their online
banking were highlighted to customers, the removal of existing features had not been. And
when speaking to Mr M, HSBC staff also recognised Mr Ms concerns and frustrations that
the online landing page still showed that access to six years of statements was available.
Unable to resolve things Mr M brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked
into things and concluded they didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong. The investigator
explained HSBC were entitled to make changes to their online banking and they didnt need
to notify customers of every single change being made. The investigator was also satisfied
Mr M was aware that changes to the online banking platform were happening. And they
noted, based on evidence from HSBC, that it seemed changes had been made to the online
banking platform so that six years of historic statements were now available.
Mr M disagreed and suggested there must be conflicting evidence. Following the
investigators view, Mr M checked again with HSBC (and online himself) that six years of
historic statements were still unavailable to customers. But he did note that changes had
been made so that it was now possible to access statements online going back further than
12 months  Mr Ms submissions mention both 15 months and 18 months.
That aside, Mr M said his real concerns were that HSBC had removed a material feature of
the account (six years of historic statements) with no notice, and this was compounded by
the landing page misleading his understanding of the account features given it continued to
say access to six years of statements would be available to customers.
The investigator maintained they didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong based on the
evidence they had, and as a resolution could not be reached the complaint was passed
to me to decide.
I issued my provisional findings to both Mr and Mrs M and HSBC and I include a copy of 
these below. 
Provisional findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After reviewing all the submissions, including listening to the available call recordings
between HSBC and Mr M, as well as those between our investigator and Mr M, Im clear that
Mr M is not disputing that HSBC can change their online banking platform or that HSBC can
choose what services should be available to customers online  including how long bank
statements should be available electronically and to download. Im also satisfied Mr M
accepts he was aware that changes were being made to the online banking platform.
So to summarise, I understand Mr Ms main concerns are how HSBC went about notifying
customers of changes to the online banking platform, and what changes they chose to
highlight  in particular the changes to accessing historic online banking statements and
apparent conflicting information about this on the landing page. And HSBCs failure to
resolve the matter for him to a satisfactory standard.
Mr M and the investigator disagree about how far back an online banking customer can
access online statements.
It seems to me the evidence the investigator was provided with (at the time of the
submission) does suggest historic statements going back to 2014 would be available.
However, the worked example presented by HSBC to the point of showing an actual
statement goes only as far back as January 2018. And on closer inspection the sample
screenshots provided by HSBC are not dated and I cannot exclude the possibility that these
may have been taken from the older online banking platform - which I understand continued
to run alongside the new online banking platform as customers were phased across.Given Mr Ms diligence in calling HSBC and regularly checking his own online bank
accounts, on balance I have no reason to disbelieve what hes said. And I think it more likely
than not the new online banking platform allowed access to 12 months of statements 
although it now seems, following customer feedback, this has been extended to around 18
months. HSBC also acknowledged Mr Ms view of this on the phone when discussing his
concerns. And HSBCs letter to Mr M dated 25 July 2019 does say, I acknowledge that we
did not notify customer that we were specifically changing the statements/ transaction
provision (sic).
As the investigator said, and Mr M accepts, HSBC is able to make changes to their online
banking platform (with no need to notify of every single change) and choose how far back
customers are able to access statements.
However, Mr Ms point is that the removal of historic statements was not an insignificant
change, but rather the removal of a material facility of the account.
Within the regulators, the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA), Handbook can be found the
Banking Conduct of Business sourcebook (BCOBs). This mentions that a firm exercising its
power to change terms and conditions, charges or make material changes to any rate of
interest should do so, amongst other things, by providing reasonable notice to the banking
customer.
I understand Mr Ms strength of feeling that the removal of historic statements was a material
and important change to how he used his account, so the change should have been
highlighted to him. However, Ive not seen anything to suggest that changes to the number
of statements available online should be specifically highlighted to customers.
That said, its hard to ignore HSBC thought it a feature of the account important enough to
highlight on their online landing page as Mr M has described, so it is difficult to understand 
setting aside the information apparently being wrong - why it didnt follow that this wasnt one
of the changes highlighted to existing customers.
In this decision Ive not considered whether HSBC intended to put out what appears to be
conflicting information between their online landing page and what information Mr M had
available to him online. But I note that HSBC accepts removal of the longer period of online
statements wasnt highlighted to customers within the online banking platform changes. And
in Mr Ms case I can understand why he felt misled.
As mentioned, HSBC couldnt resolve things as Mr M wished, so the compromise was to
provide him with paper statements for his and Mrs Ms accounts. BCOBs sets out HSBC
needs to provide their customers with statements when asked and within a reasonable
period of time. HSBC set their own timeframe of 7 days to Mr M.
It appears HSBC started arranging Mr Ms paper statements for him from 16 July 2019, but
they didnt arrive within the 7 days and its not clear from the submissions when exactly Mr M
received all the statements. Mr M told our investigator around January 2020 that he had
enlisted some help to sort through the statements and would let the investigator know of any
substantial missing statements. As Mr M didnt highlight anything further to the investigator
on this point I can only assume Mr M did receive all the paper statements by that time at the
latest.Clearly though HSBC didnt meet the standard they set themselves. And it also appears the
way in which the statements were provided to Mr M was perhaps not the most elegant of
solutions  each statement being ordered and sent individually to Mr M. I appreciate there
are restrictions with systems, and this was a large request from Mr M. However, I do think it
could have been managed better by HSBC in terms of explaining how they would be able to
meet Mr Ms request.
I understand Mr M has been frustrated throughout this matter and Im aware that he has
maintained hes not looking for financial compensation here. The role of the Financial
Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual financial disputes, and not to fine or punish
firms  that is the job of the regulator. In this case, it seems Mr and Mrs M have received
their paper statements. So theres nothing more I can ask HSBC to do here.
However, HSBC could have handled Mr Ms request for these statements better by
explaining how they would need to manage this request as well as manage his expectations
better in terms of how long this would take. Because of this, and the delay in closing one of
Mr and Mrs Ms accounts, I think HSBC should pay Mr and Mrs M £100. Whether Mr and
Mrs M choose to accept this is up to them.
Much of Mr Ms submissions hint towards the wider impact of how HSBC communicated
online banking changes to their customers. Should Mr M wish, he can let the FCA know of
his broader concerns separately.
Responses to my provisional findings
 
Mr M replied to my provisional decision to highlight the following points which Ive 
summarised below. 
Mr M said HSBCs communications with him accepted they had not let customers 
know about features and functions of the accounts which had been removed from the 
platform. And while Mr M notes this appears to be an established approach, it is 
misleading and at worst deceptive. 
Mr M said HSBC failed to recognise the seriousness of removing important records 
that many customers rely on for various reasons. And to therefore remove access to 
these documents is a material change to the online platform, not simply a matter of 
inconvenience. 
Mr M said HSBC refused to sort out the statements for him and Mrs M before 
sending them with no other reason than they refused to do so. Mr M says that had 
HSBC been more helpful in this matter by recognising the importance of providing 
such documents rather than carrying the request out as an administrative function, 
then he would have had no reason to complain. 
Mr M said he now understands that many of his concerns relate to wider practices, 
which he describes as conduct issues, and which he now recognises are outside the 
scope of our service. Mr M is also aware that the FCA do not review individual 
complaints. 
HSBC also responded to my provisional decision. They offered no further submissions for 
me to consider and accepted the recommendation to pay Mr and Mrs M £100. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As Mr M has recognised, there are parts of his complaint which do not fall within the scope 
of this service. Our service is set up to decide what is fair and reasonable in the individual 
circumstances of each complaint. And as Mr M has also commented, the FCA does not look 
at individual cases - but they will take note of any such wider concerns. 
So while I understand Mr Ms most recent comments and the overall level of frustration this 
has caused him, there is nothing further Ive seen that would alter my provisional findings as 
set out above. 
In the circumstances of this case, I think HSBC could have better handled Mr Ms request for 
statements and for that reason, and that HSBC didnt close an account when asked, HSBC 
should pay Mr and Mrs M £100. 
Putting things right
HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as First Direct should pay Mr and Mrs M £100.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that this complaint is upheld in part and HSBC 
UK Bank Plc, trading as First Direct should pay Mr and Mrs M £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman