DRN-4281882
The complaint
Ms G and Mr B have complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) declined 
their claim under their home emergency policy.
For the avoidance of doubt, the term Great Lakes includes its agents, contractors and 
representatives in this decision letter.
What happened
Ms G and Mr B contacted Great Lakes in August 2022 to say that a mouse had been in their 
property for a few weeks, but the mouse (or possibly a rat) had started making loud 
scratching noises under the floorboards. They therefore sought assistance from Great Lakes 
as their home emergency insurer. The contractors used by Great Lakes were unable to 
attend immediately and Great Lakes informed Ms G and Mr B that they could instruct their 
own contractors to carry out the necessary work and send Great Lakes the invoice for this 
work. Ms G and Mr B duly made a claim on the policy as theyd incurred costs of around 
£1,400 to remove the rodents and prevent further entry. However Great Lakes declined to 
cover all costs but agreed to pay just over £300 for rodent removal. Ms G and Mr B then 
complained to Great Lakes however, it maintained its decision to decline part of the claim.
Ms G and Mr B therefore complained to this service. The relevant investigator didnt uphold 
the complaint, as he considered that Great Lakes had acted in line with the terms of the 
policy. He said he hadnt been provided with evidence that Great Lakes told Ms G and Mr B 
that it would cover the costs of future-proofing the property. It was his view that Great Lakes 
was correct to cover the cost of immediate removal of rodents only.
Ms G and Mr B were unhappy with the outcome of their complaint. The case has therefore 
been referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue for me to determine here is whether Great Lakes acted in a fair and reasonable 
manner in applying the terms and conditions of the home emergency policy in the way that it 
did, and in declining part of Ms G and Mr Bs claim. Ive concluded that, on the balance of 
probabilities, Great Lakes did act in a fair and reasonable manner. Ill explain the reasoning 
for my decision below.
Ms G and Mr B said that they called Great Lakes in August 2022 because theyd seen a 
mouse at their home and that a mouse or rat had started making scratching noises under the 
floorboards. They said that Great Lakes agreed that treatment would be covered, and it put 
them in touch with their contractors. The contractors were unable to attend in what Ms G and 
Mr B considered to be a reasonable timeframe, however Great Lakes had agreed that Ms G 
and Mr B could arrange treatment independently and provide invoices. The contractor 
engaged by Ms G and Mr B said that the standard treatment involved a multi-stage process, 
being the laying of bait and then blocking up holes in the walls and drains. 
Ms G said she called Great Lakes back twice shortly after her original call to Great Lakes, 
and specifically asked whether both steps of this process were covered, because she 
thought the website was unclear whether blocking up the holes to prevent vermin entering 
the property would be considered a temporary or permanent repair. Ms G said The person I 
spoke with explicitly said YES this was covered and she said, to paraphrase, do what you 
need to fix the problem. Ms G considered all treatment steps were necessary to ensure the 
temporary measures were successful. She said this is analogous to replacing a broken 
window to avoid further rain damage. She said that an e-mail from Great Lakes the same 
day explicitly referred to repairs covered by the policy and didnt define what constituted a 
temporary, as opposed to permanent, repair. She said that this contributed to her 
understanding that repairs to the entry holes, was covered by the policy.
Ms G said she sent an email to Great Lakes to provide an update on the process, but 
received no response, so she felt that Great Lakes had the opportunity to correct any 
incorrect advice and it didnt do so. Ms G had emailed a request that it listen to the correct 
phone call but didnt receive a response. In total Ms G and Mr B sought a further £1,110 in 
costs (mouse proofing with one year guarantee £540, installing a drain stopper and 
replacement of defective manhole cover and frame £570). Ms G said that this was incurred 
in reliance upon Great Lakes advice that these costs were covered and assumed theyd be 
covered to arrange repairs to stop rodents returning. 
Ms G also provided recent submissions which explained that their contractor had advised 
that there were different steps for treating mouse and rat infestation. For rats, this involved 
blocking entry and then injecting rat bait under the floorboards. She said that in this case, the 
insurer decided to pay for only one step of the treatment for mice and no steps for rats. She 
said This is inconsistent and the policy did not state that rats and mice were covered 
differently. Ms G then repeated what she considered to be the analogous example of a 
broken or damaged window. She said that, without blocking holes, the mice and rats would 
have immediately returned to the property, necessitating continuous re-baiting work. 
In conclusion, Ms G and Mr B assumed theyd be covered to arrange repairs to stop rodents 
returning, and what theyd done wasn't a permanent fix. Ms G added that the work done was 
temporary in nature, including stuffing steel wool into holes, and temporarily closing gaps in 
floorboards with duct tape and silicone, until such time as we could properly repair the 
holes. She said if theyd known it wasnt covered, they wouldnt have spent money on 
temporary work and would have sought quotes for a more affordable solution. Finally, she 
said that even if the insurer was correct that closing up gaps wasnt covered, this wasnt 
clearly communicated and felt shed sought additional clarity on this. She said that following 
her explicit question, she was still left with the impression that it was covered. I believe the 
average reasonable person would have formed the same view as me.
I now turn to what Great Lakes have said about the matter. It declined to cover the costs 
incurred by Ms G and Mr B to fix a drain and manhole, and for mouse-proofing of the 
property. It confirmed that it had listened to the initial telephone call made by Ms G and Mr B 
which confirmed that Great Lakes would be sending contractors. It said that there was no 
mention of it agreeing to, or accepting responsibility, for any maintenance or preventative 
work once the immediate problem of the rodents had been resolved. 
Great Lakes said that the purpose of a home emergency policy was to remove or deal with 
the immediate emergency at hand, which would be to remove the rodents present at the 
property. It said its contractors had confirmed that if theyd proceeded with work, they would 
have removed the vermin only and any futureproofing of the property wouldnt have been undertaken. It also said that there was nothing in the policy to suggest that it would be liable 
to cover the costs of any maintenance works to prevent this issue re-occurring in the future. 
Additionally, it said that the policy confirmed that Great Lakes didnt deal with any damage 
caused by vermin. It therefore considered that it had made the correct decision to decline to 
reimburse the additional invoices provided by Ms G and Mr B for maintenance works.
As for the letter it sent to Ms G and Mr B on the date of the initial telephone calls in August 
2022, Great Lakes said that this explained the invoice procedure. It asked for a full 
description of the works completed, the cause of the issue and what the contractors needed 
to do to complete the repair on a temporary basis etc. It stated We would like to remind you, 
as per the Home Emergency policy wording, we will only cover temporary repairs allowing 
for permanent repairs to take place up to maximum of £..[left blank]. Permanent repairs 
are not covered under your Home Emergency Policy.
The starting point for my determination in this matter is the wording of the relevant policy. 
The home emergency policy here clearly covers policyholders in principle for ...removal of 
vermin where there is evidence that infestation has occurred inside your home. The 
definition of home emergency in the policy includes: A sudden and unforeseen incident 
occurring at your home which:...Makes your home unsafe or insecure for you. The policy 
terms and conditions also make it clear that in the event of such a home emergency, Great 
Lakes would pay the costs of; Temporary repair to resolve emergency situations. There are 
also a number of standard exclusions in the policy, to include the following; Incidents that 
occur as part of day-to-day living, such as:...Any system, equipment or facility reaching the 
end of its expected working life
I note that Great Lakes has settled the part of Ms G and Mr Bs claim in relation to rodent 
removal. The policy terms and conditions are clear that the most that will be provided for is a 
temporary repair to resolve emergency situations, and to resolve the immediate danger or 
problem. In ordinary circumstances therefore, I consider that the wording of the policy would 
be sufficient for an insurer to reasonably decline to settle a claim for preventative or 
permanent repairs regarding vermin. I note from Ms Gs recent submissions that the 
specialist contractors advised that the treatment for mice was different to that for rats and 
that blocking up of holes would be the preliminary step as regards rats. When Ms G first 
reported the matter however, she referenced having seen a mouse in the weeks running up 
to the claim. As the steps identified by Ms G and Mr Bs contractor for removing mice 
involved baiting, it would have been fair and reasonable to have firstly carried out this 
temporary work to see if this resolved the immediate emergency.
I note that Ms G and Mr B considered that mouse-proofing work was temporary only as it 
included stuffing steel wool into holes, and temporarily closing gaps in floorboards with duct 
tape and silicone. I dont agree however, and I consider that this would be stretching the 
clear definition of a home emergency in the policy in the context of vermin, where the 
emphasis is upon removal rather than prevention of future infestation. Vermin removal is 
specifically referenced in the policy, and I dont consider it to be analogous to the broken 
window scenario. It makes sense for homeowners to future-proof their properties and ensure 
that permanent repairs are made, however it isnt the purpose of a home emergency policy 
to cover such costs. I appreciate that futureproofing then reduces the likelihood of future 
claims. I also appreciate Ms G and Mr Bs frustration and disappointment that their 
responsible actions in arranging for holes to be blocked to avoid future rodent access, isnt 
covered by the policy, however unfortunately this is the effect of the policys wording.
As for the installation of a drain stopper, I consider that this is clearly a permanent measure 
to avoid future infestation. Im also satisfied that the replacement of a defective manhole 
cover and frame is permanent work to resolve an ordinary maintenance issue. In the 
circumstances, I consider that Great Lakes has fairly and reasonably applied the terms and conditions of the policy in declining to meet the additional invoices in the sum of £1,110. This 
is supported by the fact that Great Lakes contractor confirmed that it would have arranged 
for removal of vermin only and not preventative measures under the policy.
Notwithstanding the above conclusion regarding application of the policy wording, the 
second key question to be addressed is whether Great Lakes failed to treat Ms G and Mr B 
in a fair and reasonable manner in all respects. Ms G said that she was given explicit advice 
by Great Lakes representative that Ms G and Mr B would be covered for blocking holes at 
the property, and that Ms G and Mr B were induced to proceed with this work as a result of 
the assurance. 
Ms G said that the explicit advice was given by the representative in the third of three 
telephone conversations at the beginning of the claim. Ive therefore carefully listened to all 
three telephone calls. In the first, I note that Ms G reported the fact that there had been a 
mouse in the home, and Great Lakes representative provided initial details of the claims 
process. In the second call, Ms G gave further details of the incident. The representative 
said that he would arrange for a contractor to contact Ms G and he explained that the claims 
limit. In the third call, a further representative said that Ms G and Mr B could use their own 
contractor, as the Great Lakes couldnt attend until the following Monday. I note that Ms G 
specifically asked whether temporary repairs applied in the case of vermin, and if blocking 
up of holes was needed, whether they needed to do it in a temporary way. I have some 
sympathy with Ms G and Mr B in this respect as the question wasnt directly answered and 
the representative didnt give a clear answer. He referenced both permanent and temporary 
fixes, but then corrected himself and said that a temporary fix should get rid of the problem. 
I note that the representative then reaffirmed the exclusion by reading out a standard 
disclaimer. This confirmed that Ms G and Mr B were covered for resolution of an emergency 
on a temporary basis to allow for a permanent repair to take place, and that a permanent 
repair element wasnt covered under this policy. In the circumstances, I dont agree with Ms 
G and Mr B that the representative had explicitly confirmed that blocking of the holes was 
covered under the policy. I also dont agree that hed said something to the effect; do what 
you need to fix the problem. In addition to this however, the letter sent to Ms G and Mr B by 
Great Lakes that day, made it clear that it would only cover temporary repairs which allowed 
for permanent repairs to take place. It made it clear that permanent repairs werent covered.
In a further telephone call, Ms G said that perhaps all the invoices should have referred to 
temporary measures in order to meet the policy. However, this wouldnt have been 
appropriate. Im satisfied that future-proofing the property and carrying out repairs to a 
manhole cover and drain didnt amount to temporary measures. In the circumstances, I cant 
say that Great Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably in the way it handled this claim.
I appreciate that this decision will come as a great disappointment to Ms G and Mr B. Its 
appreciated that the complaint will have taken time and significant effort and the submissions 
have been well argued. However, Ive concluded on the balance of probabilities that Great 
Lakes applied the specific wording here in a fair and reasonable manner.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Ms G and Mr Bs complaint and I dont 
require Great Lakes Insurance SE to do any more in response to their complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 Claire Jones
Ombudsman