DRN-3782644
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC decided not to refund him after he says £29,500 of 
loan funds were fraudulent taken from his account.
What happened
A loan was taken out in Mr Hs name and credited to his business account. The funds from 
that loan were transferred out of Mr Hs account via faster payment, with a small number of 
cash withdrawals. 
Mr H has given conflicting information about why he feels he shouldnt be held liable for the 
loan:
- When he first reported the incident to Lloyds, he said he hadnt opened the account, 
taken out the loan or made the transactions that followed on the account.
- Later he said he did open the account and take out the loan but didnt make the 
disputed transactions.
- Mr H said someone he knows (S) gained access to his online banking, to make the 
transactions from his account. Mr H said he didnt authorise S to access his account. 
Mr H said S obtained the information from his laptop which hed been using for 
personal reasons  and it wasnt password protected.
- Mr H said he didnt need to access the account or the loan funds immediately, and 
thats why he didnt initially notice the transfers out of the account.
- Mr H said S said he would return the money to him, but hes since not been able to 
contact S. And Mr H has reported the matter to the Police and Action Fraud.
Lloyds decided not to refund Mr H. In summary it said:
- The information used to the open the account and take out the loan was consistent 
with Mr Hs personal information.
- There were transaction links from the business account and Mr Hs personal account 
with the person Mr H accused of taking the money (S).
- If S did access the account without his knowledge (as Mr H says) then Mr H ought to 
have kept his online banking and log-in information secure and confidential.
- It decided to hold him liable for the loan and withdrew Mr Hs banking facilities. It set 
up a loan servicing account for the repayment of the loan.
Mr H didnt accept Lloyds final response and brought the complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into things. She didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. She was 
persuaded that Mr H had made the transactions, or that S was acting with Mr Hs authority. 
In summary she said:
- If Mr H had opened the account as hed said - the activity on the account was similar 
both before and after the loan credited the account. So she wasnt persuaded that 
Mr H hadnt used the account at all. This included payments to Mr Hs own account 
as a bill payment. 
- There is a link between Mr Hs personal and business accounts showing payments to 
and from S.
- Mr H also disputed several cash withdrawals on the account. Mr H says no-one else 
had access to his card and PIN and he hasnt said he didnt receive them, so there 
wasnt an explanation as to how anyone, other than Mr H or someone acting with his 
authority, could have made these transactions. 
- Payments out of the account, after the loan credit, were to existing or previously used 
payees. Mr H wasnt consistent in saying whether he had or hadnt set these 
payments up.
- The payments out of the account werent unusual or ought to have been of concern 
to Lloyds. 
- Mr H provided some evidence of S saying he had taken the money. But she couldnt 
rule out that there was some agreement between them about access to the account 
and this didnt mean Mr H hadnt authorised the payments.
- There was a change of address on the account, but other details werent changed; 
such as the email address and telephone number. And the signature provided for the 
change of address closely matched Mr Hs. She didnt think she could rule out that 
Mr H had authorised someone to act on his behalf to make the address change.
- There was an existing relationship between Mr H and S with up to seven transactions 
between their accounts to evidence this. 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators findings. He spoke with our investigator, during the 
call the following was discussed:
- Mr H disagreed that his version of events had changed. Our investigator said she 
had carefully listened to the calls hed had with the bank and reviewed all the 
paperwork, and she was satisfied his version of events had changed, during the 
course of his complaint. 
- She added that the evidence showed that Mr Hs card and PIN were used for the 
cash withdrawals and he couldnt explain how someone else could have obtained 
those without him knowing. 
- She said Mr Hs online banking was accessed with money being transferred to Mr 
Hs own account with the reference my bills. Mr H said he did not know about this 
payment into his account but the investigator didnt think it would have occurred if Mr 
H either made the transaction or authorised S to use the account. 
- There were only a handful of payments that went to an account in Ss name, the 
remainder were payments to prepaid calling cards and these were being made 
before the loan credited the account. This was consistent with either Mr H using the 
account or S using the account with Mr Hs authorisation.
- Our investigator asked Mr H questions about the activity on the account. Mr H said 
Ss wages were paid into the account but when our investigator asked him how this 
could have happened, he said he didnt know. She concluded again this appeared 
consistent with S using the account with Mr Hs consent.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators findings. And so, the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. 
The regulations most relevant to this case are the Payments Service Regulations 2017 
(PSRs). Its the PSRs that set out when a customer and when a bank is responsible for 
transactions on an account. A customer will normally be responsible for any transactions 
they authorise.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process transactions 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the PSRs and 
terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case. 
Based on all the evidence Ive seen Im persuaded Mr H consented to and therefore 
authorised these transactions and Lloyds is entitled to hold him liable for them. Ill explain 
why.
Ive listened to all the calls and the varying accounts that Mr H has provided. Im afraid I 
dont find Mr Hs version of events reliable. Hes changed his mind several times and he 
cant account for some of the activity on the account that is most likely to have occurred with 
his consent or knowledge. 
I appreciate that someone who lived with Mr H  here Mr H says that was S - could have 
accessed some of Mr Hs information to access his online banking to carry out the disputed 
transactions. But I agree with the investigator that in these particular circumstances, there 
are many other factors about the account activity and transactions that dont lead me to 
conclude the spending of the funds and transactions on the account were carried out without 
Mr Hs knowledge or consent. I say this because:
- Mr Hs version of events has been inconsistent. He first claimed not to have opened 
the account or applied for the loan. But then later said he did open the account and 
apply for the loan  these are extremely different variations on the events. Something 
which I wouldnt reasonably have expected Mr H to have mis-remembered. I 
therefore dont find Mr Hs version of events reliable or truthful.
- He said the account was a business account for a specific industry. But the vast 
majority of the activity involves pre-paid calling card debits and credits  which isnt 
consistent with the business purpose hes told us or that he gave when opening the 
account. 
- The account was used shortly after it was opened and received credits  which Mr H 
now says he knows to be Ss wages. A few months later Mr H applied for the loan. 
But I cant see how Mr H wouldnt have seen or known about the account activity 
when applying for the loan. Im not persuaded he would have opened an account and 
applied for a £29,500 loan and then not check it for at least a year  when he then 
reported the activity as fraudulent to Lloyds. The online banking logs from Lloyds 
show the account was regularly accessed and I find unusual and unlikely that Mr H 
wouldnt have checked the account at all during this period.
- It would have been extremely unusual for S to have his wages paid into the account 
and continue to use it after the loan credit (and then spend the loan funds) and not expect to get caught by Mr H. This activity is more indicative of S acting with Mr Hs 
authority.
- Mr H disputes the small number of cash withdrawals on the account. He cant 
account for how S could have obtained his card and PIN without his knowledge, to 
carry out these transactions. And he hasnt said that he didnt receive these in the 
first instance. Im not persuaded these cash withdrawals could have taken place 
without his knowledge or consent. 
- There are payments to Mr Hs account with the references bills and rent  like the 
investigator I agree that these payments are unlikely to have happened if S was 
using the account without Mr Hs authority or knowledge. 
I think its more likely than not that Mr H was aware of and involved in the account opening, 
loan application and transactions. And, either made the transactions himself or consented to 
them being made. I think its likely that Mr Hs relationship with S has since broken down and 
he is left with a debt he feels isnt solely his responsibility. But because Im persuaded that 
he consented to and authorised the account opening and transactions on the account, Im 
satisfied Lloyds is entitled to hold him liable for them. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 09 January 2023.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman