DRN-2458002
The complaint
Mr M complains as a director of V, a limited company, about the service Barclays Bank UK 
PLC provided after he asked it to raise a chargeback request.
What happened
In early July 2020, Mr M attempted to withdraw £500 from Vs account but the cash wasnt 
dispensed from the ATM. He contacted Barclays to raise an ATM chargeback dispute but 
wasnt called back as promised.
In late August, Mr M contacted Barclays again. He said hed called several times to try to get 
things sorted out. Barclays said it couldnt find a record of the calls. It raised the ATM dispute 
and paid V £50 as an apology for the inconvenience.
The £500 was refunded to V in late September, shortly after Mr M brought Vs complaint to 
our service. 
Our investigator looked into Vs concerns but didnt think Barclays needed to take any further 
action. He acknowledged that Barclays had delayed the dispute being settled. But he 
thought the £50 it had already paid V was fair compensation for the inconvenience caused.
V disagreed with our investigators view. Mr M didnt think the £50 compensation Barclays 
had paid was sufficient. Mr M said hed reported the problem to Barclays a few days after it 
had happened, but it didnt come back to him. He spent a lot of time on the phone chasing 
Barclays on a number of occasions. In his last conversation with Barclays he was told the 
case was closed and he wouldnt be getting the money back. But three weeks later, after 
contacting the ombudsman, the money was returned. He would like Barclays to pay £600 to 
compensate him for the time lost in dealing with the matter. 
So, Vs complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Vs complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays has acknowledged its customer service should have been better and it is likely to 
have caused a delay in V being refunded the £500. 
Although the £500 was still outstanding when Mr M brought Vs complaint to us, I can see it 
was refunded on 28 September 2020.
So, what Ive needed to decide is whether or not the £50 Barclays has paid is sufficient 
compensation for the impact of its actions on V.
I appreciate Mr M has found the situation very stressful. Hes told us he phoned Barclays 
several times to try to resolve things. Barclays says it wasnt able to locate most of Mr Ms 
calls. But Ive listened to a recording of the conversation he had with Barclays shortly before 
he brought the complaint to our service. It must have been very worrying for him to be told 
that V wouldnt be getting the money back.
While I empathise with the frustration Mr M feels, I cant take this into consideration when 
reaching a conclusion on this case. Although Mr M is a director of V, he isnt the complainant 
 its V. And V, as a limited company, isnt able to experience frustration or distress. 
I am able to consider inconvenience experienced by V  though not by Mr M, personally. 
The delay in the money being refunded doesnt appear to have placed V in any financial 
difficulty. While I appreciate V has experienced some inconvenience, I think the £50 
Barclays has already paid is enough. So, I wont ask Barclays to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman