DRN-3403619
The complaint
Mrs M complains that CB Payments Ltd trading as Coinbase restricted access to her 
account without any warning or reason. Mrs M would like access to her funds and a refund 
of expenses incurred in moving her Crypto.
Mrs M is represented by Mr M. I note that Mr M also has a complaint with this service which 
will be dealt with separately.
What happened
Mrs M opened an account with Coinbase on 21 February 2021.
Mr M transferred his Crypto from his Coinbase account to Mrs Ms new Coinbase account.
Coinbase restricted Mrs Ms account. They said they needed information from Mrs M 
regarding her intended use of the account. They requested this information on 17 May 2021 
and on 22 June 2021.
In March 2021 Mrs M was able to move the Crypto in her account to a different provider. In 
doing so Mrs M incurred charges of £9.01.
Mrs M was able to withdraw her cash balance of £44.94 from her Coinbase account on 
17 September 2021. Her Coinbase account has a zero balance.
Mrs M complained to Coinbase that her account was blocked. They said they needed Mrs M 
to provide further documentation in order to lift the restrictions on her account.
Mrs M complained to our service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint He said 
Coinbase were entitled to review and block customers accounts to comply with their legal 
and regulatory obligations.
Mr M on behalf of Mrs M was unhappy with our investigators view he said we should let him 
know the reason why Coinbase blocked the account. Mr M wanted to know which specific 
regulations allowed Coinbase to block the account.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account review and block
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mrs Ms account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Coinbase were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mrs Ms account. 
I can see that in blocking the account Coinbase were following an internal process which 
they carried out in order to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. This was a 
legitimate exercise so I cant say Coinbase was unfair. 
Reasons
Whilst Mr M may have expected to be given the reasons for the block on Mrs Ms account, 
Coinbase isnt required to give him a specific reason for restricting the account. So, I cant 
say Coinbase has done anything wrong by not giving Mr M this information  as much as 
hed like to know. 
I can see that Section 7 of the User Agreement that Mrs M agreed to when she opened the 
Coinbase account in February 2021 allows Coinbase to restrict her use of the account and it 
is under no obligation to provide Mrs M with the reasons.
Specific regulations
Mr M has said he would like to know which specific laws and regulations allowed Coinbase 
to block Mrs Ms account. Coinbase arent required to give Mr M any further reasons.
Moreover, Coinbases obligations are broad and varied, and it isnt the case that one 
regulation or law only applies to the circumstances of Mrs M and this complaint. Mr M may 
wish to research firms obligations and responsibilities, and how they relate to Mrs Ms 
circumstances and the decision Coinbase has taken. But from what Ive seen, Im satisfied 
Coinbase have acted in accordance with whats required of them.
Losses
Mr M has asked that Mrs M is refunded £9.01 for losses she incurred as a result of 
transferring the Crypto in her account to a new service provider. 
Coinbase were entitled to take the action they did in blocking Mrs Ms account so I cant say 
they are responsible for the losses Mrs M incurred. In addition, the losses incurred were the 
result of actions Mrs M chose to take so I cant say that Coinbase should be held liable for 
the losses. In any case Section 8.4 of the user agreement provides that Coinbase wont be 
held liable for any trading losses. 
Mr M has told us that Mrs M wasnt able to access £44.94 in her account. I can see from 
statements provided to me that Mrs M was able to access this money on 
17 September 2021. She withdrew this money from her account and her account balance is 
now zero. I wont be asking Coinbase to pay any compensation for this because Mrs M has 
recovered her funds and Coinbase were entitled to block her account.
In summary I know that Mr M on behalf of Mrs M will be unhappy with my decision but I cant 
say that Coinbase acted unfairly when they blocked Mrs Ms account and I dont think they 
are liable for Mrs Ms losses for the reasons Ive stated above. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above I do not uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman