DRN-1445913
 
The complaint
Miss M says Gain Credit LLC - trading as Lending Stream - irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about four instalment loans Lending Stream provided to Miss M between      
October 2013 and September 2017. A summary of Miss Ms borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 12/10/2013 23/10/2013 6 300 £162.00
Break
2 02/06/2015 14/01/2016 6 200 £89.60
3 12/08/2015 12/10/2016 6 440 £257.92
Break
4 15/09/2017 Outstanding 6 250 £112.00
Miss Ms complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators and they didnt think it should 
be upheld. They thought there wasnt anything in the information Lending Stream had asked   
Miss M to provide that should have prompted Lending Stream to do more checks. So, the 
adjudicator couldnt say Lending Stream was wrong to have given the loans to Miss M.  
Miss M disagreed. She said she was struggling to repay the loans and was struggling 
financially, and the loans should not have been agreed when she had other outstanding 
loans. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure     
Miss M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators view because she thought Lending Streams checks 
didnt go far enough and it should have been aware - given how she was using the credit 
facilities - that she was struggling financially. So, it shouldnt have lent to her.
Lending Stream has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving all of 
the loans. It has said it asked Miss M about her employment status and she confirmed she 
was employed and had a monthly income of between £1,200 and £1,300 for each loan. 
Lending Stream also checked Miss Ms normal monthly living costs. Miss M declared these 
to be between £693 and £893 a month. Lending Stream says it also searched Miss Ms 
credit file and it has provided the results of its search. There werent any recent adverse 
entries like county court judgements (CCJs) recorded on it at the time the loan was taken 
out. So there was nothing in the credit report that would have prompted Lending Stream to 
carry out further checks. 
Miss M has also provided a copy of her bank statements, but she has redacted a lot of the 
information, so Im unable to see exactly what her financial situation was around the time 
she took each of her loans out. However, I can see she was borrowing from other short-term 
lenders around the time she took out her loans with Lending Stream. But as these loans 
were taken at a similar time, it is unlikely these loans would have appeared on the credit 
checks that Lending Stream carried out. So, I dont think Lending Stream ought to have 
increased its checks before it lent to Miss M again or not lent to her on this basis.   
Miss M borrowed and repaid loan 1 without any obvious difficulty, there was then a 20-month 
gap between Miss M repaying her first loan and taking out loan 2. I think it would be 
reasonable for Lending Stream to view this gap as an indication that Miss Ms finances had 
stabilised after whatever had led to her to need to borrow previously. So, she was very early 
on in her lending relationship with Lending Stream. Even though she had to make monthly 
repayments, the highest repayment would have appeared affordable based on the 
information she declared to Lending Stream. And there wasnt anything in the information 
Miss M provided at the time of loan 2 which would have given Lending Stream cause for 
concern, so I think it was reasonable of Lending Stream to have relied on what Miss M gave 
it. 
Ive noted Miss Ms comments around the fact she was able to have two loans over-lapping 
and what she has said about the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) rules and guidelines 
said about this facility. However, the rules laid out about the FCA are different from what 
Miss Ms understanding is  and were about a different product facility. The FCA has not 
specifically said anything about over-lapping loans or limits to them. But that doesnt mean a 
leader can give a consumer an unlimited amount of over-lapping loans. The loans have to be 
affordable, and if multiple loans are given, we have to consider whether this is a sign of financial difficulties. But in Miss Ms case, as there were only two loans overlapping, I dont 
think it had yet reached the stage were Lending Stream needed to be concerned. 
We also expect a lender to make sure the maximum amount of the combined monthly 
repayments was affordable for its consumers. I have reviewed this for Miss Ms case. The 
maximum amount she would have been required to pay for loans 2 and 3 was around £258, 
and according to her declared income and expenditure these loan repayments would have 
appeared affordable for Miss Mi. So, I dont think Lending Stream needed to do more before 
it agreed to Miss M having overlapping loans. 
There was a further gap of 11 months between Miss M repaying loan 3 and taking out loan 
4. So again, I think it would be reasonable for Lending Stream to view this gap as an 
indication that Miss Ms finances had stabilised after whatever the circumstances were that 
had caused her to take out her previous loans. And as such Miss M was back at the 
beginning of her lending relationship with regards to what checks I would expect Lending 
Stream to perform. 
I think all of these factors had an impact of what level of checks would have been 
appropriate for Lending Stream to carry out. Given these, I think the checks Lending Stream 
did before lending the final loan went far enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage 
to undertake any more in-depth checks. 
The information Miss M declared to Lending Stream at the time of the loans may not have 
been an accurate reflection of her financial circumstances, but I think Lending Stream was 
entitled to rely on that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what Lending 
Stream knew about Miss M, I wouldnt have expected Lending Stream to verify the 
information Miss M gave it. This therefore means, I cant say that Lending Stream done 
something wrong in lending Miss M these loans.
I appreciate that my findings are likely to disappoint Miss M. Shes put time and effort into 
her complaint, but I hope my explanation will help her understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
My final decision
I do not uphold Miss Ms complaint and make no award against Gain Credit LLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman