DRN-4104740
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited wont pay his claim for a solar thermal 
element under his BG HomeCare policy.
What happened
Mr S contacted BG as there was a fault and his water wasnt heating up. Mr S said there 
was a delay of several months after this before BG told him that he wasnt covered under the 
policy for a repair. BG said that solar panels werent covered. It said the solar panels were 
only covered for the first 5 years following installation and that installation took place around 
2008. BG said the solar panels were only ever covered under the manufacturers guarantee.
Mr S didnt accept this. He said this was a valid part of his heating and water system in the 
same way as an immersion heater would be. He brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said when BG installed Mr Ss entire system 
upgrade the policy documents showed he was covered for the solar panels. Our investigator 
noticed that up to 2014 policy documents show Mr S was covered and BG only removed the 
cover for solar panels in 2015/6. She said this was a significant change and BG needed to 
show it had highlighted the significant change to Mr S. BG provided no evidence of this and 
instead said it was down to the policyholder to read and check their documentation at each 
renewal to make sure cover was still appropriate for them. Our investigator checked with 
Mr S and accepted that if he had been made aware of the policy changes, he would have 
sought alternative cover. She felt BG had prejudiced Mr Ss position and it needed to 
arrange a repair. Our investigator said the £130 offered as compensation for the service and 
inconvenience was reasonable.
BG didnt accept this and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BG is adamant that it is down to policyholders to check their terms and conditions every year 
when the renewal documents are sent to them. In this case the earlier policy documents 
terms and conditions said:
 If we have installed it, we will also repair any electric system and repair and maintain a 
solar thermal system and their cylinders and controls.
I think this wording is clear - solar thermal systems were covered under the policy that Mr S 
bought.
Mr S said that as he saw it BG fitted a complete central heating and hot water system in 
2008 and so the HomeCare policy he had would cover him and deal with any system 
problems. I think thats a reasonable assumption.
I think BG accept that it did install the system for Mr S back in 2008. And Mr S said he has 
had a HomeCare policy for roughly 27 years. So, based on the wording that applied and 
Mr S having the system installed by BG I totally understand his position that he thinks he is 
covered, and BG should pay his claim.
BG said it has never covered solar panels  despite what the policy wording above states.
BG can vary the policy terms and conditions at policy renewal it is perfectly entitled to do 
that. But it must do so in a fair and reasonable way. So, I need to consider is it reasonable 
for BG to install a solar thermal system for Mr S, give him an insurance policy to cover that 
system and then to remove cover without pointing out that Mr S was now paying for a policy 
that didnt cover all of the installation BG fitted for him. On balance, I dont think thats fair or 
reasonable.
To me BG has removed the choice from Mr S here. If it contacted him to say it was changing 
the terms and conditions and it no longer offered cover for Mr Ss solar thermal system as 
part of the policy then it might be different. At that point Mr S would have had a choice and 
he could have made an informed decision. BG didnt do that. It removed the cover, a 
significant part of the policy, never highlighted it to Mr S, and continued to offer renewals. In 
this case I dont think BG has acted fairly or reasonably.
BG suggest the updated policy documents with the colour coded diagrams showing what is 
covered and what isnt covered is enough. I think there might be circumstances where that is 
true but this case isnt one of them. Also, the wording needs to back up the diagram and Im 
not sure that it does.
I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for BG to pay for the required repairs to deal with 
Mr Ss claim.
In view of the issues the claim caused Im pleased to see that BG offered firstly £30 
compensation and then a further £100 to make a total of £130. In view of the upset caused 
to Mr S by the way BG handled his claim and the delays caused I think thats reasonable 
compensation. Im unsure if BG has paid this amount to Mr S so if any money is outstanding 
BG should pay it as soon as possible.
Putting things right
Pay for the required repairs to deal with Mr Ss claim.
Pay the £130 compensation if it hasnt already done so.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Pay for the required repairs to deal with Mr Ss claim.
Pay the £130 compensation if it hasnt already done so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman