DRN-4214129
The complaint
Miss G complains about how The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) managed her loan 
accounts during a forbearance plan and after it ended.
What happened
Miss G has three loans with RBS. On 3 May 2022 she contacted the bank and a forbearance 
plan was agreed until 1 August 2022. Miss G complained to RBS on 22 August 2008 by 
phone. Her primary concern was that shed been told before the forbearance plans were 
agreed shed be able to add the arrears which had accrued under the plan onto the end of 
the agreement. She called again on 20 September 2002 as she was unhappy about further 
correspondence she received - a formal demand notice - whilst she had her ongoing 
complaint being investigated. She thought this shouldnt have happened and was concerned 
about the impact this would have on her credit file. 
RBS sent its final response (FRL) Miss Gs complaint on 10 October 2022. It set out the 
issues shed raised and gave her referral rights to this service but didnt uphold the 
complaint. It detailed the correspondence sent during the plan and said this had all been 
issued correctly as had the formal notice of demand sent for two of the accounts on 14 
September 2022. RBS also said the adviser in the call on 3 May 2022 also told Miss G shes 
need to either clear arrears as a lump sum or arrange a repayment plan to repay the arrears. 
It said she wasnt advised that she could add the arrears to the end of the loan agreement. 
And finally, in that same call, Miss G was advised that the forbearance plan would be 
reported to her credit file and this may affect her ability to obtain credit from other lenders.
Miss G brought the complaint to us. In the complaint form and her response to the 
investigators introductory summary of her case on 26 November 2022 she told us the 
complaint was also about how accurately the arrangement had been reported on her credit 
file, she thought the wrong information had been given to the credit agencies. 
Our investigator said this additional point on the accuracy of the information reported - as 
opposed to just the reporting of a forbearance plan - didnt form part of Miss Gs original 
complaint to RBS. And, as we didnt have their consent to investigate that part, it would have 
to be looked at separately. 
Our investigator issued two views and in both she didnt uphold the complaint. In the first she 
didnt think there was any evidence to support that RBS had made any errors so she didnt 
ask them to take any further action. 
Miss G didnt agree with the investigators findings. She remained of the view that the 
accuracy of reporting to her credit file had been raised in this complaint. And that excessive 
duplicated correspondence had been sent whilst confirmation of the forbearance 
arrangements had not. And the default notice shouldnt have been sent. Our investigator 
asked Miss G for more information in respect of the letters and two further call recordings 
from RBS from 22 August and 20 September 2022. 
In her second view the investigator confirmed that despite listening to both these calls her 
overall view hadnt changed. 
Miss G expressed concerns about how her compliant was being investigated and asked for 
an ombudsman to review her case. She was disappointed but accepted that the accuracy of 
reporting to the credit file had to be dealt with separately. She told us the lack of any 
communication from the bank to confirm the forbearance plans once theyd been set up was 
a fundamental part of her original complaint. Miss G said shed been given conflicting 
information when shed contacted RBS to confirm and this had led to confusion and it was 
unacceptable.
She also told us she couldnt see how - when the investigator already accepted the bank 
were at fault and the bank had apologised - an apology was sufficient for error made when 
the two default notices were sent on 14 September 2022.
After asking RBS for more information about the hold placed on the accounts and for copies 
of contact notes and emails, I issued a provisional decision on 12 May 2023. 
In that decision I didnt uphold the aspects of the complaint relating to contact during a 
period of forbearance or that the forbearance arrangements werent confirmed to Miss G 
after the call. Or those elements relating to the information RBS gave Miss G about the 
impact on her credit file and the ability to add the arrears, accrued during the forbearance 
period, to the end of the loan term. But, based on the information in the call recording and 
what RBS told us I did uphold the part of the complaint about the sending of letters enclosing 
default notices for two of the three loan accounts. I thought RBS should pay Miss G £100 
compensation for the inconvenience this caused.
Both parties responded to my decision and confirmed it was accepted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have confirmed they accept my decision. As such theres nothing before me 
which changes my substantive findings in this complaint. So, I dont see any reason to alter 
my provisional decision.
Putting things right
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should pay Miss G £100 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the part of this complain about sending letters enclosing 
default notices for two of the three loan accounts. The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should 
pay Miss G £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman