DRN-3165983
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was given unsuitable advice by IFS Risk Solutions (UK) Limited
(IFS) to transfer his pension policy into income drawdown to take tax free cash which Mr S
says he didnt need.
What happened
Ive considered Mr Ss complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 28 September 
2021. In it I set out what had happened and my provisional views.
In summary Mr S had met with IFS in December 2009. That led to him transferring his 
existing personal pension plan to a new arrangement with a new provider and taking the 
maximum tax free cash amount. More recently hed gone to a new adviser whod queried the 
advice Mr S had been given. It seemed Mr S hadnt needed the tax free cash or any income. 
Mr S complained to IFS. But it didnt uphold the complaint. It said its records showed Mr S 
was moving and needed the tax free cash. Mr S referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator upheld it. From what hed seen Mr S  who was 51 at the time - hadnt 
needed the tax free cash for his house purchase. The investigator said that IFS should 
compare how Mr Ss pension had performed with how it wouldve done if it had remained 
with the existing provider. IFS should also pay Mr S £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
hed been caused. 
IFS undertook a redress calculation. It seemed that Mr Ss new pension plan had 
outperformed his previous arrangement. So no redress was due, aside from the £200.
Mr S said no account had been taken of the tax free cash payment which hed received but 
hadnt needed. We agreed and asked IFS to redo its calculations on the basis the £17,117 
had remained in Mr Ss pension fund and compared that with what the tax free lump sum 
payment was worth now, having been held in a savings account. 
IFS didnt agree and maintained that Mr S had intended to use the tax free payment to help 
purchase a property. 
As agreement wasnt reached, the complaint was referred to me. 
I agreed with the investigator that it wasnt suitable advice to recommend that Mr S transfer 
to access his tax free cash. 
I noted what IFS had said about the reason why Mr S wanted to take the tax free cash being 
clearly recorded. But it didnt seem that Mr S needed the tax free cash in order to be able to 
go ahead with his property purchase. Even if hed initially thought hed need extra money 
(and aside from the capital he could raise by way of a mortgage) and hed said he didnt 
want to access his investments, it was up to IFS to explore with Mr S if taking tax free cash 
was the best way, taking into account his longer term retirement plans and needs.
The fact that the tax free cash was simply put in a savings account and has remained there
indicated that Mr S didnt need it in 2009 and his house move couldve been (and was)
achieved without recourse to his pension arrangements. I also said that the primary purpose 
of a pension plan is to provide benefits in retirement. Early recourse to a pension fund 
shouldnt be undertaken without very good reason. 
I set out what IFS needed to do. It seemed, leaving aside the tax free cash, that Mr S hadnt 
lost out by transferring. In respect of the tax free cash I said the gross sum - £17,117  
wouldve remained in Mr Ss pension plan. IFS needed to compare what that amount 
wouldve been worth now with what Mr S had actually received and which had been held in a 
savings account. 
I asked Mr S for details as to where that money had been held and what it was worth now. 
He was able to provide some information, including where the money had initially been 
invested. But he couldnt (and understandably given the time elapsed and the fact that hed 
put it with other savings) provide complete details and a full history of where it had been 
invested and the exact rates of interest earned and for what periods. But he suggested 
interest rates had ranged from 3% pa to 0.6% pa. 
IFS undertook some further calculations. These showed that, had the tax free cash been left 
in the pension plan, it would be worth some £27,233.52. And using historical savings rates, 
the money could be worth £20,567.59. 
The difference was £6,665.93 which, including the £200 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience, gave total redress of £6,865.93.
We shared that with Mr S. He said he didnt have any faith in what IFS had said. But if we 
deemed the calculations were fair then hed accept them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive indicated, I dont think the advice to transfer in order that Mr S could access his tax 
free cash at age 51 was suitable. Fortunately, it seems that the new plan has outperformed 
Mr Ss existing pension arrangement which means he hasnt lost out financially as a result of 
transferring, even if the advice to transfer wasnt suitable. 
But the issue has been the tax free cash. If that money had remained in Mr Ss pension plan 
it would be worth some £27,233.52 now. That figure appears reasonable and in line with 
what might be expected. 
Ive also considered the figure of £20,567.59. Its based on historic savings rates which I 
think, given that we dont know exactly where the money has been invested, is a reasonable 
approach. Ive done some basic calculations to check the average (compound) interest rates 
over the period in question. I think the resulting amount is reasonable. 
IFS must pay Mr S redress of £6,665.93. If payment isnt made within 28 days of IFS 
receiving notice that Mr S has accepted my decision then interest at 8% pa simple is to be 
added to any unpaid amount. In addition IFS must pay Mr S £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience the unsuitable advice has caused. 
My final decisionI uphold the complaint. IFS Risk Solutions (UK) Limited must pay Mr S, in total, £6,865.93 
plus any interest. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman