DRN-3079633
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited didn't pay him enough  
when it settled a claim on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.  
What happened
Mr As car was stolen. He claimed on his policy for its loss. Advantage settled his claim, 
valuing the car at £13,810 (before deducting his policy excess). Mr A said that he couldn't 
buy a replacement car for less than £18,000. 
Mr A brought his complaint about Advantages valuation to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it. He didn't think Advantage had valued Mr As car fairly. So he said it should 
increase its valuation to £16,023.50. He later contacted Advantage again and said that it 
should add 8% simple interest to the additional settlement.
Mr A didn't think our investigators valuation was high enough; so his complaint's been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it but I don't intend to depart from our investigators 
recommendation to resolve the complaint. 
Mr As policy says that in the event his car was stolen then Advantage would pay him its 
market value, less a deduction for his policy excess. The policy defines market value as:
 The cost of replacing your car in the UK at the time the loss or damage occurred with one 
of the same make, model, age and condition
Mr A told us he bought a replacement for his stolen car of the same make, model and year, 
but with fewer miles on the clock for £22,000. He doesn't believe he could have bought a car 
equivalent to the one stolen for less than £18,000. So hes not happy either with Advantages 
initial valuation or our investigator's recommendation to increase that. 
Ill explain that it's not my role to value cars but Ill look to see whether or not an insurers 
reached its valuation reasonably. Our usual approach to complaints about valuations is to 
look at the relevant trade guides for valuing second-hand cars. We often find these reliable 
as theyre based on nationwide research of likely selling prices. And I find them more 
persuasive than figures cars are advertised for, as those are often inflated to allow for 
negotiation. So advertised prices dont necessarily reflect the actual sale price, if in fact the 
car sells at all. 
When Advantage valued Mr As car it did so using the figure provided by a single trade guide 
which reflected the same make, model, year, specification and mileage of Mr As car. That 
trade guide provided a market valuation of £13,800. 
But the sale price of second-hand cars can vary fairly dramatically, and the various trade 
guides rarely agree on an exact valuation. So I wouldn't usually think it was fair for an insurer 
like Advantage to use a valuation from a single trade guide. And, except in circumstances 
where a guides valuations doesn't appear to be reflective of the market, we generally think a 
fair way to find a cars market value is to use an average of the figures given by the trade 
guides which provide valuations.
In this case a second trade guide also produced a valuation for Mr As car of £18,247. And 
an average of that figure together with the trade guide Advantage used is £16,023.50. So I 
think thats a fair market value for Mr As car at the time of its loss, given that its based on 
the data sets gathered by two well respected trade guides.
I'm aware that Mr A paid more than that to buy a replacement car. Although hes 
acknowledged that his new car has travelled fewer miles. And the mileage of a second-hand 
car is a key factor in its valuation, as it tells the potential buyer about the likely use the car 
has had. So I don't think the fact Mr A paid more for his replacement car means that the 
average market value figure I've quoted above is unfair.
Similarly, Mr A showed us three adverts for similar cars which were advertised for between 
£18,995 and £24,450. But one of those cars, while older, had travelled around 60,000 miles 
fewer than Mr As. And the two other cars were three and four years younger than Mr As car 
respectively and both had travelled over 33,000 miles fewer than Mr As stolen car. And 
I would expect that decreased mileage to result in an increased asking price. Further, as I've 
said above, advertised prices aren't necessarily the prices a car sells for. So the adverts 
Mr A has provided don't persuade me that it would be fair to instruct Advantage to increase 
its valuation to the £18,000 sum Mr A thinks his car was worth.
However, for the reasons given above I agree that Advantages initial valuation wasn't fair. 
So I think it should pay Mr A the difference between that and the average value figure 
quoted above of £16,023.50. I make that sum £2,213.50. And, as Mr As been unfairly 
without the use of that money in the meantime, I think Advantage should add simple interest 
to it as set out below. That interest is set at a rate of 8% simple a year, as that is the current 
statutory interest rate on judgment debts. And we think its an appropriate rate to reflect the 
costs to consumers of them being deprived of money by unfair settlements etc.   
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to:
increase its settlement of Mr As claim for his stolen car by £2,213.50; and
add simple interest to that sum at a rate of 8% a year from the date of Mr As claim to 
the date it makes payment to him.1  
1 If Advantage considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman