DRN-3951853
The complaint
O complains that Allianz Insurance Plc declined its claim and cancelled its policy following a 
claim for a theft.
Mr G is the director of O and has brought the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr G is the director of O, a building developer. O had a construction insurance policy that 
was underwritten by Allianz. 
O rented a storage unit to store its tools and equipment. In May 2021 this was broken into 
and a large amount of the equipment and tools were stolen. Mr G made a claim on Os 
policy.
Allianz asked for a list of the items and receipts or invoices for them. Mr G provided a list and 
receipts for around half of them. On receipt of this, Allianz had concerns that the claim had 
been exaggerated. It said the number of items was significantly higher than those reported to 
the police when the incident happened. And Mr G had only been able to evidence the first 
half of the items and not the others. It also said it had doubts that all the items being claimed 
for would have fitted in the relatively small storage container. 
It asked Mr G for some more information, however it wasnt satisfied with his answers. It 
wrote to him to say that it considered the claim to be exaggerated and was therefore relying 
on the fraud clause in the policy to decline the claim and cancel Os policy back to 1 July 
2021. 
Mr G wasnt happy with this. He said when the incident was first reported to the police by a 
member of staff, they hadnt had a chance to review exactly what was missing, which is why 
the list of stolen items increased when he made a claim. And he said some items were 
bought as part of individual projects, so he wouldnt have receipts for everything. He made a 
complaint to Allianz but it didnt uphold the complaint. So he brought it to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld, as he thought Allianz had acted 
fairly and reasonably when considering the information in relation to the claim. 
Mr G didnt agree and asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Allianz has declined Os claim as it thinks it was exaggerated. In cases where the fraud 
clause in a policy has been relied on, our role is not to decide whether fraud has been 
committed. But to decide whether the business acted fairly and reasonably when reaching its 
decision to apply this term. Its important to note that as this is not a criminal matter Allianz 
dont need to prove beyond reasonable doubt that fraud occurred, but just that it was most 
likely. 
We understand that accusing someone of fraud is a serious matter. So its important that a 
business has enough weight of evidence to make its decision fair and reasonable. When 
reaching my decision, I have considered the investigation carried out by Allianz and the 
evidence it has relied upon when reaching its decision, in order to decide whether it has 
acted fairly and reasonably.
The fraud term in Os policy states as follows:
If the Insured or anyone acting on the Insured's behalf:
a. makes any false or fraudulent claim;
b. makes any exaggerated claim
the Insurer will:
i. refuse to pay the whole of the claim; and
ii. recover from the Insured any sums that it has already paid in respect of the claim.
The Insurer may also notify the Insured that it will be treating the Policy as having terminated 
with effect from the date of the earliest of any of the acts set out in sub-clauses a. - d. above. 
In that event, the Insured will:
a. have no cover under the Policy from the date of the termination; and
b. not be entitled to any refund of premium.
Allianz has shown that Os claim increased significantly from the first notification to the police 
to when the claim was made  by around £25,000. And when asked, Mr G has only been 
able to provide receipts for around £10,000 of the around £30,000 value of the items claimed 
for. Some of which were purchased on behalf of a different limited company. 
I understand Mr Gs point that the first figure given was just an estimate, and the updated 
one was a truer reflection of what was in the storage unit. However Allianz has pointed out 
that some of the larger and more valuable items were added after the initial notification. And 
these would likely be the items that would be most obviously missing at the time of loss. 
These items are also among those that havent been verified with a receipt. 
Further, some of the larger items would have taken up a significant amount of space in a 
storage unit that appears to have a limited amount of space from the photos. So I can 
understand its concerns about the volume of items that have been claimed for. 
I have also considered what Mr G has said about not having receipts for all items. And I 
dont think it inherently unreasonable that he wouldnt have receipts for everything claimed 
for. However the pattern of those that have receipts and those that dont, as well as the 
difference in value between the items he has been able to validate and those he has not, 
mean Im persuaded that Allianz has made a fair assessment of the claim.
For these reasons, I think Allianz has conducted a thorough investigation into the claim. And 
has considered the information and evidence Mr G has provided in response to its 
questions. And based on all the evidence, I think its acted fairly and reasonably by relying 
on the fraud condition in the policy to decline Os claim and cancel its policy to July 2021.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G, on behalf of 
O, to accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman