DRN-3121356
Complaint
Mrs B has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) misled her into borrowing 
money on her overdraft, which proved to be more expensive, when she wanted to borrow 
money on her credit card.
  
Background
Since the complaint has been with us, Barclays has agreed to place Mrs B in the position 
she would have been in had she paid no interest at all on her overdraft. 
Mrs B didnt confirm acceptance of Barclays offers and as shed previously asked for an 
ombudsmans decision, the case was passed to an ombudsman for review.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Barclays has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mrs B is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
Mrs Bs complaint has been that she was misled into paying more interest than she would 
have paid if shed borrowed £2,500.00 on her credit card. I dont know whether or not this is 
the case, as the amount of interest Mrs B would have paid on her credit card depends on a 
number of factors not least how much Mrs B would have decided to repay each month. 
But, in any event, what Barclays has now agreed to do is place Mrs B in the position shed 
now be in if she hadnt paid any interest at all on the £2,500.00 she borrowed. And it will 
leave her current account with a credit balance. 
Mrs B would clearly have paid a not insignificant amount of interest if shed borrowed on her 
credit card, in the way she says she wanted to, as there are usually a number of upfront fees 
for borrowing in this way. So Im satisfied that what Barclays has now agreed to do places 
her in a significantly better position than she would now be in, had things gone as Mrs B say 
they should have done. And it seems to me there arent any more interest, fees and charges 
remaining for Barclays to refund here.
  
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Barclays has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Mrs B is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, I leave it up to Mrs B to decide whether 
she wishes to accept Barclays offer.
   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Barclays Bank UK PLC has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mrs B is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of her 
complaint. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman