DRN-3444622
The complaint
Mr B complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
irresponsibly gave him loans which he couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened
This complaint is about loans MoneyBoat provided to Mr B as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalmentsLoan 
AmountHighest Monthly 
Repayment
1 05/04/2018 05/07/2018 5 £250.00 £83.42
Break in lending
2 20/09/2019 28/02/2020 6 £1,100.00 £301.43
3 10/03/2020 30/06/2020 4 £600.00 £223.83
4 13/07/2020 20/10/2020 4 £400.00 £146.39
When Mr B complained to MoneyBoat it said it didnt uphold his complaint. It did however 
offer to refund him the interest hed paid on loan 4 as a gesture of goodwill in order to settle 
his complaint.
Mr B didnt feel this offer went far enough and so he brought his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator didnt think it was unfair for MoneyBoat to have provided any of these 
loans to Mr B. He explained why and set out what MoneyBoat should do to put things right.
MoneyBoat hasnt responded, despite reminders, and the deadline for responses has now 
passed. 
So, as the complaint isnt yet settled, it comes to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. I have taken all this 
into consideration and having done so, I am upholding Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain my 
reasons. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
So it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. 
Before lending to Mr B, MoneyBoat asked him for details of his income and normal 
expenditure. And MoneyBoat carried out checks on Mr Bs credit file.
Ive looked at each of the loans in turn and I agree with the adjudicator that MoneyBoat 
should reasonably have realised that all these loans were likely to be unsustainable and it 
shouldnt have provided any of them.  
MoneyBoat shouldve seen that the credit monthly repayments shown on the credit reports 
MoneyBoat acquired when Mr B applied for loans 1 and 2 amounted to more than the 
amount of disposable income it had calculated he had available to spend when working out 
its affordability assessment. So it shouldve been apparent that he wouldnt be able to 
sustainably afford these loans. 
When he took out loan 3, whilst MoneyBoats affordability assessment suggested hed have 
a small amount of cash left after making all his credit repayments, I think it shouldve been apparent that this couldnt be relied on. The credit checks showed that Mr B was already 
over-reliant on expensive unsecured loans and he was increasingly making use of credit 
cards. This didnt suggest that in reality he had any spare cash  rather that his money 
problems were now beyond his control and more likely he was borrowing in order to be able 
to pay for his other debt. And this also reflected his financial situation when he applied for 
loan 4.
I think MoneyBoat, as a responsible lender, should have been aware that Mr B was unlikely 
to be able to make any of the monthly repayments in a way that would be sustainably 
affordable. So MoneyBoat shouldnt have provided loans 1-4 to Mr B. And for these reasons, 
Im upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr B, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between Mr B and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible. 
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is now 
impossible to reconstruct accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr B in a compliant 
way at this time. Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would 
be fair or reasonable to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any 
one of these options. So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case 
for what Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr B to repay the principal amounts that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has had to pay interest and charges on 
loans that shouldnt have been provided to him. So MoneyBoat should do the following:
A add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 1,2,3 and 4, not including anything already refunded
B calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr B, calculated 
from the date Mr B originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled
C pay Mr B the amounts calculated in A and B 
D remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in relation to 
loans 1,2,3 and 4.*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as 
MoneyBoat.co.uk to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman