DRN-4257644
The complaint
Mr B complains about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) who declined his 
claim under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B said that he had a leak at his home and contacted LV to make a claim. He said that LV 
did nothing to progress the claim. And when he received the renewal quote (some months 
later) he was surprised that the premium had substantially increased. He contacted LV to 
enquire why and was told that it was likely that the premium had increased due to a claim 
that had been made. LV offered to either re-open the claim or review the premium. 
Mr B asked LV to re-open the claim. LV sent a surveyor to assess the damage. The surveyor 
confirmed that there was no evidence of a leak at Mr Bs home. As Mr B had instructed 
builders to carry out repairs at his home, LV explained that a cause of damage report would 
be required from those builders. 
A report was received from Mr Bs builder, and this was considered by LV. LV then asked Mr 
B for a plumbers report, as the builders report had differed from its surveyor. Mr B told LV 
that he had settled the plumbers invoice in cash. And as such had no contact details for him. 
Ultimately, LV declined Mr Bs claim due to the lack of an insurable peril. In its final 
response, LV maintained its position, in that it confirmed that there was no evidence of an 
escape of water at the property, so the claim would be declined. It did however offer Mr B 
£200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused, due to delays that had happened 
during the claims process. 
Mr B was given his referral rights and as he remained unhappy with the outcome, referred a 
complaint to our service. One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it 
should be upheld. She said that from the evidence she could see that LV had initially thought 
that it would accept some of the claim. But, as it could find no evidence of an insurable event 
having taken place, it declined the claim. She felt that LV had carried out a thorough 
investigation and had declined the claim in line with Mr Bs policy. 
LV accepted the view, Mr B did not. He said that our investigator had got the timescales 
incorrect. He said that he wanted LV to meet with him so that they could discuss the damage 
at the property. So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr B, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
I have considered all the evidence and comments made by both parties. I understand that 
Mr B would like a meeting with LV to discuss the damage at his home, but this isnt 
something that I can recommend that LV does. What our role is, is to look at the actions 
taken throughout the claims process by LV and to see if there were any errors made by LV. 
If there were errors than Im able to recommend an outcome that is reasonable. If I find there 
is no error made, then I must explain the reasons why I came to this decision, based on the 
evidence presented to me. 
With this in mind, I think the main issue of this complaint is whether LV were fair and 
reasonable to decline Mr Bs claim. 
Mr B made a claim in June 2021. Although he said that LV did not progress the claim, the 
evidence that I have read, indicates otherwise. 
I can see that from 19 June 2021, until the 20 August 2021, LV continually chased Mr B for 
information regarding the claim, so that it could progress it. As the information wasnt 
forthcoming, LV closed the claim on 20 August 2021. 
It wasnt until February 2022, that LV reopened the claim, after Mr B indicated that he 
wanted the claim to be pursued. I can see that there was a slight delay between getting a 
surveyor to inspect the damage and the actual inspection. But a surveyor from LV did 
inspect the damage and wrote a report (in March 2022).  
I have read the report and the conclusion is that there was no insured peril, that is there was 
no damage that he could attribute to being caused by an escape of water.  Because of this, 
LV asked Mr B for further evidence from his builder (Mr B had carried out some repairs since 
the leak had happened). 
There was around a further two months delay whilst Mr B obtained a report from his builders, 
that included a breakdown of costs. 
It seems that there was some delay by both parties during the claims process. In that, there 
was delay from Mr B due to him not providing the evidence as and when required. And from 
LV in not assessing the evidence it received from Mr B, sooner. Ultimately, once LV had 
received all the information from Mr B, it reviewed it and concluded, that no insured peril had 
occurred. 
Having reviewed the reports from both parties, Im persuaded that there was no insured peril 
that had occurred. The conclusion of the report is that the damage had been on a gradual 
basis and as wear and tear is excluded from cover, and the damage at the property couldnt 
be attributed to a one-off event (such as an escape of water), I think that LV was fair to 
decline the claim. 
I say this as I have found that the surveyors report is detailed and clear and I think that LV 
carried out an in-depth investigation. I agree that there was delay during the claims process. 
But as LV had offered compensation of £200, for the trouble and upset this caused, I think 
that offer is reasonable and in line with our guidelines on compensation.
I acknowledge that Mr b would like to meet with LV to further discuss the damage at his 
property. But, as I think that it reasonably declined his claim, this isnt something that I can 
recommend it do. I understand Mr Bs strength of feeling about this complaint and the reason why he referred it 
to our service. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, I havent seen enough 
evidence to show that LV was unreasonable to decline his claim, on the basis of there being 
no evidence of an insured peril at his home. Accordingly, I am unable to reasonably ask LV 
to accept his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman