DRN-4309906
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt find in her favour regarding a claim for 
direct debit reimbursements she submitted to them.
What happened
To briefly summarise: In March 2023, Miss C submitted a claim to Barclays for 
reimbursement of all direct debits that shed paid to her local council for council tax. Miss C 
felt that her local council had taken these payments unlawfully, and she felt that she was 
entitled to a reimbursement of these payments under the direct debt guarantee.
Barclays sent a questionnaire to Miss C about her claim, which she completed and returned. 
But upon review, Barclays felt Miss C had a dispute with her local council which wasnt 
covered by the provisions of the direct debit guarantee. And they didnt feel that any error or 
omission had occurred whereby Miss C was reasonably entitled to a reimbursement of the 
direct debits from them. Miss C happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Barclays responded to Miss C and reiterated their position. Miss C wasnt satisfied with 
Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Barclays had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation, and so didnt uphold the complaint. Miss C 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
I also note that Miss C has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding 
her complaint. Id like to thank Miss C for these submissions, and I hope she doesnt 
consider it a discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in line with this services 
role as an informal dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Miss C notes that I havent addressed a specific point shes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Miss C and Barclays. Rather, it should 
be taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it 
directly in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
Miss C feels that her local council have taken council tax payments by direct debit from her 
unlawfully. And she made a claim for reimbursement to Barclays for a reimbursement of all 
historical council tax direct debits paid to her local council under the direct debit guarantee.
But a dispute of the nature that Miss C describes here isnt covered by the terms of the direct 
debit guarantee, and neither is it intended to be. Rather, the purpose of the direct debit 
guarantee is to protect consumers if there is a mistake involving the payment of a direct 
debit that either the consumer has authorised  i.e. ensuring that the correct payment 
amount is taken in line with authority given by the consumer  or reimbursing direct debits 
that have been taken without a consumers authority.
Neither of the above scenarios are true in this instance. Instead, Miss C is seeking 
reimbursement of the direct debits because she feels the payments that she had previously 
authorised to be taken by direct debit have in fact been taken unlawfully by her local council.
It therefore seems clear to me that Miss Cs dispute is about whether her local council were 
legally permitted to request and receive the payments that Miss C authorised them to take 
by direct debit from her Barclays account. But in this scenario Barclays havent done 
anything wrong. And this is because Miss C did authorise the direct debit payments that 
were made to her local council in the first instance. 
Miss C may argue that she didnt provide any authority to her local council to apply for and 
receive the direct debit payments. But for the direct debit in question to have been set up, 
Miss C had to provide her sort-code and account number to her local council. And Im 
satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Barclays to have processed the direct debit 
payments in line with the request it received from the local council, given that Miss C had 
provided her bank details to the local council to facilitate the payments  an act which is 
commonly seen as providing authority for the payments to be made.
Additionally, Miss C hasnt sought a reimbursement from Barclays on the basis that she 
never authorised the payments in the first instance. Rather, she did so on the basis that she 
now believes the local council lacked the legal authority to request and receive the 
payments. And if Miss C was making payments for several years that she hadnt given her 
authority to be made, it seems reasonable to me that Miss C would have challenged those 
payments on that basis as soon as she became aware of them, which isnt the case.
All of which means that Im satisfied that Barclays havent done anything wrong or acted 
unfairly here. This is because they processed the direct debits that I feel its fair for them to 
consider that Miss C authorised her local council to apply for. And there were no mistakes in 
those direct debit payments because the amounts of the payments that were processed 
were the correct amounts  a fact which Miss C isnt disputing. And these are the things that 
are covered by the direct debit guarantee.
Ultimately, the direct debit guarantee isnt designed or intended to apply to disputes of the 
nature of Miss Cs dispute with her local council here. And so, if Miss C continues to hold her 
dispute, Im satisfied that it would be a matter between her local council and herself, and not 
something which Barclays should fairly be expected to engage in. And this is especially the 
case when a reimbursement claim has been made under an incorrect understanding of the 
remit of the direct debit guarantee  as is the case here.
For these reasons, I wont be upholding this complaint again Barclays or instructing them to 
take any further or alternative action here. I trust that Miss C will understand, given what Ive 
explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman