DRN-3717863
The complaint
Mr F complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited, trading as Likely Loans, lent to him 
irresponsibly and without carrying out proper affordability checks. He would like all the 
interest and charges associated with the loan refunded.
What happened
In November 2021 Likely Loans approved a loan of £1,000 for Mr F, which was 
scheduled to be repaid at approximately £101 per month over a term of 12 months. 
When assessing the application, Likely Loans asked Mr F about his financial 
circumstances, confirmed his income, and obtained a basic credit score before 
approving the lending.
Mr F appears to continue to make his monthly repayments as planned.
The adjudicator looked at the evidence and thought that Likely Loans checks went far 
enough and didnt reveal any concerns which should have led it to a different lending 
decision. So he didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed, and sent in more evidence. This 
didnt change what the adjudicator thought, so Mr F asked an ombudsman to look at his 
case,
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it, essentially for the same reasons as the adjudicator.
Mr F hasnt explained why he disagrees with what the adjudicator said. But my starting 
point in reaching my decision is to first look at what information Likely Loans had when 
considering Mr Fs loan application, and then what information it should have gathered, 
given what it knew about Mr F and his circumstances.
Did Likely Loans checks go far enough?
The regulations in force required potential lenders to carry out proportionate checks and 
prescribed nothing more  so the exact nature and depth of checks that need to be 
carried out in order to be proportionate vary from lending decision to lending decision. 
There was and is no automatic requirement for a lender to, for example, verify what a 
customer is telling them, or review bank statements.
Likely Loans asked Mr F about his income and circumstances. He disclosed an annual 
income of £50,000 and confirmed that he was living with his parents. He also provided a 
recent pay slip to confirm his monthly income. The credit check it carried out showed 
Likely Loans that Mr F had no defaults or delinquencies on his file, and that he had a 
modest total debt in relation to both his annual gross, and monthly net, income. Its 
calculations suggested a healthy monthly disposable income.
Given that Mr F was borrowing a comparatively small amount of money over a 
comparatively short term, and that the repayment represented a small proportion of his 
confirmed monthly income, I think Likely Loans checks were comfortably proportionate 
and went far enough.
I acknowledge that Mr F has sent us bank statements and his full credit file, which do 
indeed suggest that his financial situation was not as positive as it seemed. But the key 
point is that Likely Loans wasnt required to look at any particular piece of evidence, 
including bank statements, or to obtain a full credit file. And there was nothing to suggest 
that it needed to carry out further checks than it did, based on what it knew about Mr F. 
So on the basis of the information it had, it was reasonable for it to conclude that this 
borrowing was sustainable for him.
It therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Likely Loans doesnt need 
to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman