DRN-2610049
The complaint
Mr Ps complaint is about a mortgage he held with Santander UK Plc. He is unhappy that the 
early repayment charge (ERC) attached to the mortgage was not stepped as he had 
experienced on a previous mortgage. He thinks having a level percentage charge throughout 
is unfair.
What happened
In 2015 Mr P took out a mortgage with Santander following advice from an independent 
mortgage broker. The mortgage was for slightly more than £60,000, over a term of 15 years 
and on a repayment basis. Mr P chose to have an interest rate product added to the 
mortgage, which meant the interest was fixed until 3 May 2020. It was also documented that 
an ERC would be charged if the mortgage was paid off before that date  5% of the amount 
repaid. 
Mr P complained to Santander. It responded by highlighting the details of the ERC were 
included in the mortgage offer he was sent before the mortgage was advanced. This 
document clearly set out the ERC would be calculated at 5% of the outstanding mortgage 
balance at the time of redemption. Santander didnt think it had done anything wrong in 
charging the ERC. 
Mr P wasnt happy with Santanders response and asked us to consider the complaint. 
When he did so he explained that in August 2019 hed written to Santander and said that he 
was in the process of selling his home. Hed noticed the ERC was still 5% of the loan 
amount, despite him having paid the mortgage for four and a half years. He said he wasnt 
aware of this extortionate fixed charge and his previous experience of ERCs had been that 
they reduced by 1% each year. Mr P acknowledged he should have been more vigilant when 
he read the offer Santander made to him. However, he said he didnt think the ERC was 
reasonable when compared to other lenders and in relation to the short period remaining on 
the interest rate product. He also told our investigator that had he known about the ERC in 
advance, he could have delayed the completion of the sale and avoided having to pay the 
ERC.
Our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend it be upheld. Mr P 
didnt accept the investigators conclusion as he still felt the ERC was excessive given how 
long was left of the term of the interest rate product. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has said he wasnt aware of the format of the ERC attached to his mortgage  he 
assumed it was stepped and reduced over the term of the rate, as a previous mortgage had 
been. This mortgage was arranged through an independent mortgage broker. That means 
the broker was responsible for ensuring Mr P understood the main features of the mortgage, 
including the ERC.
That said, I am satisfied that Santander clearly documented the charge in both the offer 
document Mr P was sent and accepted, and the subsequent annual statements. So I think it 
reasonable he would, at least at the start of his mortgage, have been aware that the ERC 
was a fixed percentage (although a reducing amount as the mortgage was on a repayment 
basis) throughout the period of the interest rate product.
Lenders will borrow money to be able to provide mortgages to their customers. There are 
costs associated with doing so and in repaying that borrowing early, if it does. The regulator 
allows a lender to estimate the cost to it of a proportion of its borrowers repaying their 
mortgages early, and to pass on the costs to borrowers in the form of an ERC if they repay 
early. That ERC can be designed as a stepped or as a fixed percentage throughout the term. 
Both formats are allowed by the regulator and I cant find fault in Santander using a fixed 
percentage format for Mr Ps mortgage.
Overall, whilst I can understand Mr P was unhappy when he was reminded how the ERC on 
his mortgage was going to be calculated, I dont think Santander was unreasonable in 
applying it when he paid his mortgage off. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 
16 April 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman