DRN-4154571
The complaint
Ms S complains about the way Cambridge Building Society (CBS) handled her request to 
transfer funds held in her ISA after it closed her account. She says she suffered a loss of 
investment growth whilst funds were in limbo and also spent time trying to manage the 
transfer causing her distress and worry from repeated incorrect communications.
What happened
In early May 2022, CBS informed Ms S it would be closing her ISA. Following a query raised 
by Ms S, she was informed she could transfer her ISA to another manager. 
Towards the end of May 2022, CBS received a transfer out request from a new ISA 
manager. But this was rejected by CBS. Ms S contacted CBS to query why the ISA transfer 
out was rejected. CBS then reopened the account and stopped the original cheque with the 
transferred funds. At the end of June 2022, a further transfer request was made but this was 
rejected by the new ISA manager. Eventually at the end of July 2022 the transfer was 
reprocessed, and £113.28 was sent to the new manager. Ms S then invested the funds in a 
growth fund with her new ISA manager. 
Ms S raised a complaint about how the transfer had been handled. CBS didnt accept it had 
been incorrect to close the account. It said it agreed the ISA could be transferred to another 
provider to ensure the money kept its ISA status  but conceded it incorrectly rejected the 
initial transfer request. It offered Ms S £25 in compensation for the delays and handling of 
the initial transfer. It failed to send the cheque agreed to Ms S, so after she chased this, it 
increased the compensation to be paid by a further £25  so paid her £50 in total. 
Ms S remained unhappy that she hadnt been compensated fully, including for the loss of 
investment opportunity while the transfer was delayed. She referred her complaint to this 
service for an independent review. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She felt it should be upheld and asked 
CBS to do the following
- Calculate if Ms S had suffered a loss because she wasnt able to invest her 
transferred funds with her new provider due to CBS failure to complete the initial 
transfer. The investigator directed CBS to complete a comparative calculation to see 
if Ms S would have received more units in the funds she eventually invested in 
August 2022, had she had her funds available in mid-June 2022 when she first made 
the transfer request.  
- Increase the compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to £75 in total 
 so a further £25 as CBS had already paid Ms S £50. 
CBS agreed to pay the compensation the investigator suggested. 
Ms S didnt accept the investigators proposed compensation. She felt that a greater payment 
for the distress and inconvenience she suffered should be paid. She also raised concerns 
about her tax-free allowance and trading fees in relation to the payment of the compensation 
for loss of investment opportunity. As no agreement could be reached the complaint has 
been passed to me to reach a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S has been clear that she isnt complaining about the decision to close her account, so I 
wont be commenting on this. My findings are based on the concerns she raised about how 
her funds were transferred following the closure notice. 
Im satisfied CBS acted reasonably in allowing Ms S to transfer the account after it was 
closed, in light of its ISA status. But there were problems with the transfer. CBS has 
accepted it shouldnt have rejected the initial transfer request that Ms S made and this 
caused delays. This did cause some hassle for Ms S as she had to chase things up. It 
wasnt until the end of July that the ISA was transferred. As CBS has accepted some 
responsibility for the delays and accepted the investigators assessment, I will focus my 
findings on what fair and reasonable compensation is in resolution of the complaint.
Firstly, I note the comments Ms S makes about the compensation amount for the stress and 
time she has spent dealing with the matter. I have had regard for the fact the amount of 
money being transferred was just over a £100, so I think any compensation should be 
relative to this. I also note that CBS wasnt the only party involved in the transfer, and the 
new provider also rejected a transfer application.  It isnt clear to me if the new provider holds 
any responsibility for the delays, but as Im not considering a complaint about this business, I 
make no finding on this.  
The investigator suggested Ms S should be paid £75 for the impact of CBSs handling of the 
transfer. During the investigation this was broken down for different instances of impact, but 
the approach Ive taken is not to segment all of the different issues that have occurred but 
rather reach a figure that compensates for all of the distress and inconvenience Ms S has 
suffered. Having considered everything Ms S has told us about the practical and emotional 
impact on her of CBS handling of the situation, I find a compensation payment of £75 to be 
fair and reasonable.  
In respect of the estimated investment loss caused by the delays. It is difficult to calculate 
loss and add additional units as suggested by the investigator. Ms S says she is now 
transferring out of the fund to a different provider. This adds an additional layer of 
complication. CBS have also said it would be difficult for it to pay compensation directly to a 
different provider. So, I think the pragmatic approach is for CBS to make a payment of £25 
directly to Ms S to cover the financial loss. I note Ms S has raised concerns about the tax 
year these funds should be linked to and about any payment being outside of her ISA 
wrapper. It is unclear whether or not she does intend to fully fund her ISA allowance in the 
current tax year. If she doesnt then this this money could be utilised for this years 
allowance. But in any case, her estimated loss is monetary terms is relatively small. The 
investigators estimation of somewhere around £15 is reasonable based on the unit price 
data that is available online for the fund. I think a payment of £25 fairly compensates her for 
any loss of ISA status through any additional tax liability she may incur on these funds if they 
are invested outside of the tax wrapper, and I also think this covers the trading charge Ms S 
mentions. While I cant conclude this is a precise amount to cover her loss, I think it is still 
fair overall in the circumstances.  
I find compensation totalling £100 is a fair amount to resolve this complaint. This amount 
includes a payment of £75 for the compensation for the distress and inconvenience Ms S 
has suffered as a result of the way the transfer request has been handled and £25 to cover the investment opportunity loss. I understand CBS has already paid Ms S £50, so I direct 
CBS to pay Ms S a further £50. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Cambridge Building Society to pay the compensation set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman