DRN-3320260
The complaint
Mr T complains about the advice given by Vision Independent Financial Planning Ltd 
(Vision) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme 
to a personal pension. He thinks the advice may have been unsuitable for him and has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ts employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure
its business, including decoupling the employers DB scheme (the BSPS) from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined benefit scheme (the BSPS2). Alternatively, members were 
informed they could transfer their benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
Concerned about the changes being made to his pension, Mr T contacted Vision and met 
with an adviser in September 2017. Vision gathered information about Mr Ts circumstances 
and objectives. It noted Mr T was aged 50, married and his wife had given up work to care 
for her mother. Vision recorded that Mr and Mrs T owned their home and had around 
£17,000 in savings. Mr T also jointly owned his parents home with his brother. 
Vision noted that Mr T intended to retire no later than age 65 but he wanted to know what 
the impact of him retiring early at age 60 would be. Ideally, he wanted a net income of 
£18,000 per year (£1,500 per month) in todays terms. Mr T said he would use his tax-free 
cash (TFC) entitlement to pay for things like holidays. It was further noted Mr T and his 
employer were contributing 16% of his salary per month to his employers new defined-
contribution (DC) pension scheme, equivalent to around £6,000 per year. Vision completed 
an attitude to risk assessment, noting Mr T had a balanced attitude to risk.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them three options; to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the 
BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
In November 2017 Vision advised Mr T to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension, 
and invest the funds in a managed portfolio. It said transferring would provide Mr T with 
flexibility that he wouldnt have if he remained in the DB scheme.
Mr T accepted this advice and £505,758.75 was transferred from the BSPS to his new 
personal pension.
In 2021 Mr T complained about the advice he received from Vision. But as Vision wasnt 
able to provide its final response to his complaint within eight weeks, it gave him referral 
rights to our Service. Mr T referred his complaint to us; he said he trusted Vision but after 
receiving a letter from the regulator about the advice possibly being unsuitable, he was 
worried about whether the advice was right for him. He added that the market conditions 
affecting the value of his pension have caused him a lot of worry.
Vision provided its final response to the complaint, maintaining the advice was suitable as it 
allowed Mr T to meet his objectives of more flexibility and higher death benefits for his wife, 
who did not have her own pension. It also said transferring allowed Mr T to retire early at age 
60 without penalty.
An Investigator considered the complaint and upheld it. He thought Mr Ts objectives could 
be met by either joining the BSPS2 or moving to the PPF, and he wouldnt likely be better off 
by transferring. Overall, he didnt think Mr T shouldve been encouraged to take the risk with 
his pension as he had a low capacity for loss and most likely a cautious attitude to risk. The 
Investigator believed that Mr T should be compensated based on him having joined the 
BSPS2. He also awarded £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience the advice 
had caused him.
Vision initially disagreed with the Investigators view, saying that Mr T didnt want his pension 
income to be reduced by the early retirement factors under the BSPS2 or PPF. Also, that 
Mr T was comfortable with the level of risk and the transfer met his objectives at the time. 
However, in March 2023 Vision decided to accept the view under protest to bring the 
complaint to a close. It offered to settle the complaint in line with the regulators new redress 
methodology, due to come into effect in April 2023. Vision also confirmed it would use the 
FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate whether Mr T was owed redress.
The Investigator informed Mr T that Vision was willing to settle his complaint. Mr T confirmed 
Vision had written to him about this and had asked for some information it needed in order to 
carry out the redress calculation. Mr T raised concerns about how the delay in Vision 
accepting the Investigators view could impact the amount of compensation he was due. He 
felt that Vision was only making this offer, albeit under protest, because the assumptions 
applying to the redress method currently worked in its favour. Mr T thought there was 
guidance from 2001 which prevented Vision from gaming the system in this way. And for 
this reason, he thought Vision should be required to calculate whatever redress he might be 
owed to him as of the date when the Investigator upheld his complaint in January 2022.
Mr T was informed that the guidance he was referring to was issued in 1998 during the 
Pension Review exercise because firms were not following the regulators guidance and 
were calculating redress incorrectly. He was told that this didnt apply in the circumstances of 
his complaint  Vision was entitled to defend its case and request an Ombudsmans 
decision. It was explained to Mr T that it was fair and reasonable for Vision to use current 
assumptions when calculating redress and that this would put him as far as possible into the 
position he wouldve been in if he hadnt transferred out of the BSPS.
Mr T still felt that using the current assumptions wasnt fair. And he added that the £300 
compensation the Investigator had recommended was derogatory given the stress the 
matter had caused him. And as there was no agreement on this point, the complaint was 
referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vision initially said the advice it gave Mr T was suitable. But it has now accepted the 
Investigators opinion that the complaint should be upheld and agreed to put things right for 
Mr T by carrying out a loss assessment in line with the regulators guidance. What remains 
in dispute here is whether what Vision has offered to do to put things right for Mr T is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. However, for completeness, I agree with Investigator that the advice provided to Mr T was unsuitable and as there is broad agreement that the 
complaint should be upheld, I will only briefly set out my reasons for this.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Visions actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability.
The provisions in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Vision should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ts 
best interests. Im also mindful that under COBS 9.2.1R Vision needed to take reasonable 
steps to ensure that its recommendation to Mr T was suitable for him. And having looked at 
all the evidence available, I dont think the advice provided to Mr T was suitable. 
Financial Viability
Vision carried out a TVAS, as required by the regulator, showing how much Mr Ts pension 
fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB 
scheme (the critical yield). The TVAS used the benefits available to Mr T through the BSPS2 
for comparison purposes.
The TVAS showed that in order to match the benefits available to Mr T under the BSPS2 at 
age 60, Mr Ts personal pension needed to meet a critical yield of 8.07% (6.64% if he took a 
reduced pension and TFC). The critical yields were also 6.4% and 5.75% (reduced pension 
and TFC) if the BSPS moved to the PPF. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given.The relevant discount rate at the time the advice was given was 3.7% a year for 9 years to 
retirement (age 60). For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time 
was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% a year.
Given the lowest critical yield was 5.75%, I think Mr T was unlikely to be able to match, let 
alone improve on, his benefits if he transferred out of the DB scheme to a personal pension 
as a result of investing in line with his balanced attitude to risk, even if he ended up in the 
PPF. And it was even less likely compared to the BSPS2 benefits. 
However, in the suitability report, Vision told Mr T that with a critical yield of 6.64% (reduced 
pension and TFC at age 60) it was happy to support the transfer based on his objectives and 
also his balanced attitude to risk. But I dont think that statement was fair to Mr T as it gave 
him the impression that this return was achievable, when this was well above the discount 
rate and the regulators middle projected growth rate.
Like the investigator, Im also not convinced that Mr T had the capacity to lose his pension 
funds. This was Mr Ts only significant retirement provision, and both he and his wife were 
reliant on it for their retirement. In the Additional Question Sheet  Penson Transfers, Mr T 
said that his BSPS benefits were a significant proportion of his retirement benefits which 
should only be exposed to limited risk where the potential for reward was reasonable. And in 
the attitude to risk questionnaire, he described himself as fairly cautious. With this in mind, 
I dont think he shouldve been encouraged to risk his DB pension by transferring to a 
personal pension scheme.
So, overall, I dont think the transfer was financially viable as I think Mr T was likely to 
receive lower overall benefits at retirement by transferring to a personal pension.
Flexibility and income needs
Vision noted that Mr T wanted flexibility and that transferring out of the BSPS would provide 
this. It said he could take £18,000 per year from age 60, without penalty, and could then 
reduce what he took from the pension when he started receiving his state pension at age 67. 
Mr T was interested in retiring at 60. And I think its worth saying here that the early 
retirement penalty that Vision referred to was in fact actuarial adjustments. Those 
adjustments reflect that, by taking a pension earlier, its likely that the pot to pay for that 
pension will have to last longer. As such the schemes actuaries calculate a reduction in the 
yearly pension to allow for the fact that the pensioner will claim the pension  most likely  
for a longer period. That is not a penalty for taking the pension early, its simply a 
compromise for having the benefits of that pension paid over a longer period. And I think 
describing early retirement factors as a penalty wasnt providing Mr T with information that 
was clear, fair and not misleading.
Based on what Ive seen, Mr T wouldve been able to meet his income needs in retirement 
either through the BSPS2 or the PPF. If Mr T chose not to take TFC, he wouldve been 
entitled to around £19,700 (PPF) or £21,000 (BSPS2) at age 60. Although he would receive 
less income than the £18,000 per year he said he needed from age 60 if he took TFC, Im 
mindful that the TFC available to him through the BSPS2 or PPF was significant (£100,000+) 
and he didnt have any specific needs in mind for this sum so he couldve used it to 
supplement his income until his state pension became payable. Mr T also had a DC scheme 
with his employer that he would likely be paying into for the next ten years  so, alternatively, 
he couldve used this to top up his income.
Overall, I think Mr T already had a degree of flexibility in how he took his pension benefits, 
and I think he couldve met his income needs by joining the BSPS2 or moving to the PPF. So, I also dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr T to transfer out of the BSPS 
just to have flexibility that he didnt actually need.
Death benefits
Vision recorded that although lump sum death benefits were not a priority for Mr T, he 
preferred the idea that the full pension pot would be available to Mrs T on his death. Death 
benefits are an emotive subject and of course most people would like their loved ones to be 
taken care of when they die. And Im sure that the idea of leaving a large sum to his wife in 
the event of his death sounded attractive to Mr T, as it would to most people. But whilst 
I appreciate that Mr T might have preferred to be able to leave whatever remained of his 
pension to his wife on his death, the priority here was to advise Mr T about what was best for 
his retirement provisions. And I dont think Vision explored to what extent Mr T was prepared 
to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr T 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by either the PPF or the BSPS2 wouldve 
been useful to his spouse if Mr T predeceased her, which, given Mrs T was around 11 years 
younger than him, was quite possible. This pension, when added to Mrs Ts state pension 
entitlement, wouldve been sufficient to meet her individual needs. The spouses pension 
was also guaranteed and it escalated  and under the BSPS2 the spouses pension would 
be calculated as if no TFC had been taken. Furthermore, this benefit was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
And if investment returns were poor, there may not have been a large sum to pass on in any 
event, particularly if Mr T took more out of the fund than he anticipated in the early years of 
his retirement. 
Overall, I dont think Mr Ts desire to leave whatever remained of his pension on his death to 
Mrs T was a good enough reason to recommend that he transfer out of the BSPS. By opting 
into the BSPS2 or moving to the PPF, his wife would be entitled to an escalating pension on 
his death, as well as a return of his contributions (around £64,000 according to the suitability 
report) and Mr T also had life insurance in place. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ts best 
interests to give up his own guaranteed pension just for the potential of a higher lump sum 
death benefit for his wife, which by his own admission, wasnt a priority for him.
Concerns about the scheme
Vision noted that Mr T was concerned about the BSPS moving to the PPF and how this 
reduced the value of his benefits. It also noted that Mr T wanted peace of mind that the fund 
would be under his control and couldnt be further weakened by his employer  he wanted 
to break ties with it.
At the time of the advice, all signs pointed towards the BSPS2 being established. And if 
Mr Ts concerns about his employers influence on his pension remained, I think it shouldve 
been explained that his employer and the pension scheme trustees were not entirely one 
and the same. So Mr Ts employer didnt have the control over the pension Mr T thought it 
did. And in any event, Mr T hadnt expressed a desire to move his DC pension away from his 
employer  so transferring his DB scheme benefits wouldnt allow him to break ties with it. 
Even if the BSPS2 didnt go ahead, Mr T still couldve met his objectives by moving with the 
scheme to the PPF. Although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income 
was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these 
concerns shouldve led to Vision recommending Mr T transfer out of the DB scheme 
altogether.I also think Mr Ts desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr T was not 
an experienced investor and I cannot see that he the knowledge to be able to manage his 
pension funds on his own. Indeed, the recommendation letter suggested he would remain 
reliant on professional advisers. So, I dont think that having control was a genuine objective 
for Mr T  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
So, for all the reasons given above, I dont think it was clearly in Mr Ts best interests to 
transfer out of the BSPS. And it follows that the advice he received from Vision to transfer 
out of the BSPS to a personal pension wasnt suitable for him.
Fair Compensation
Vision has already agreed to compensate Mr T for the unsuitable advice in line with the 
regulators rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. And it has 
accepted the Investigators view that the BSPS2 benefits should be used for comparison 
purposes in the redress calculation.
I understand Mr T has concerns about the redress methodology used to compensate him for 
the unsuitable advice; he feels that Vision should be required to calculate redress as at the 
date of the Investigators view, where he upheld the complaint. Mr T says it isnt fair for 
Vision to benefit from the change in economic assumptions that could mean the redress 
calculation shows a lower loss amount than if it had been calculated earlier, or even no loss. 
Mr T believes there is guidance from the regulator that requires businesses to revisit cases 
where consumers have received reduced or no redress.
Ive considered Mr Ts points carefully, but the regulator has set out what it considers the 
appropriate method of compensation to be in instances of unsuitable pension transfer 
advice. And this requires Vision to use the assumptions from the same financial quarter in 
which the calculation is carried out. Vision was entitled to disagree with the Investigators 
opinion of the complaint and ask for an Ombudsmans decision, and so it was not obliged to 
carry out a redress calculation before a final decision was issued.
Ive considered the guidance Mr T has referred to, but I dont think this applies here. The 
guidance  the Pensions Review Bulletin No 02 December 1998  was issued by the 
regulator in response to concerns that firms were not calculating redress correctly under the 
Pension Review guidance. There is no suggestion that Vision will carry out the calculation 
incorrectly here. I appreciate that the assumptions used in the redress calculation have 
changed significantly over the last 12 months, and that this may mean that the calculation, 
when carried out, shows Mr T has not suffered a loss. But Im satisfied the regulators 
redress method puts Mr T back, as far as possible, into the position he would have been in 
had he not transferred his BSPS benefits. If the calculation shows no loss, it simply means 
he has no shortfall in his pension now to replicate the BSPS2 benefits in retirement.
I also think that Vision being required to use the FCAs BSPS calculator will provide him with 
some assurance that the calculation has been carried out fairly. And I will review the 
calculations once they have been carried out after the decision if Mr T requires me to do so.
I note Mr T doesnt think the £300 recommended by the Investigator fairly compensates him 
for the stress and worry the unsuitable advice caused him. Although it wouldve undoubtedly 
caused Mr T distress finding out that he had cause to complain, Im mindful that it hasnt had 
an immediate impact on his retirement plans. Mr T is still working, and isnt yet reliant on his 
pension for his retirement, so it hasnt had an additional impact on his retirement planning. 
So taking all of this into account, I think £300 is fair compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr T, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr T would most 
likely have joined the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. 
Although Mr T was interested in retiring at age 60, it was possible hed retire closer to age 
65. So, I don't think that it would've been in Mr Ts interest to accept the reduction in benefits 
he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more 
favourable reduction for very early retirement. And as Mr T was married, his wifes pension 
would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and under the BSPS2 this would be 
calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (even if Mr T chose to do so). The 
annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the 
BSPS2 compared with the PPF. For these reasons, I think Mr T wouldve joined the BSPS2.
Vision must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Vision should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr T and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation, together with supporting evidence of what Vision based the inputs into the 
calculator on.
Mr T has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, compensation should 
be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the 
FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ts 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Vision should:
calculate and offer Mr T redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr T before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr T receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr T accepts Visions offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr T for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ts end of year tax position.Redress paid to Mr T as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Vision may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that Mr T 
would otherwise pay on income from his pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ts likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
 
Vision should also pay Mr T £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the unsuitable advice.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Vision Independent 
Financial Planning Ltd to pay Mr T the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I have also 
recommended that Vision Independent Financial Planning Ltd pays Mr T the balance. 
If Mr T accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Vision Independent 
Financial Planning Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr T can accept my
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr T may want to consider getting
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final decision.
Vision Independent Financial Planning Ltd should provide details of its calculations to Mr T in 
a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman