DRN-3793863
The complaint
Ms D complains that the Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) 
didnt make her aware that she was a beneficiary of a pension plan held by her late partner. 
She says the payment of the claim was delayed which has impacted her both mentally and 
financially. 
In addition Ms D complains about the level of compensation she received when Royal 
London accidentally sent letters to the late Mr D about two other pension policies after the 
claim was settled. She says this was extremely upsetting.  
What happened
Ms D had a long term partner, Mr D, although they werent married. Unfortunately, after a 
long illness, Mr D passed away in December 2019. At the time of his death he held three 
pension plans with Royal London. One of these was a group stakeholder plan which Mr D 
joined in 2005 and from which he subsequently nominated Ms D to receive 25% of the fund 
value in the event of his death.
Ms D says she was unaware that she was a beneficiary of any of the plans or who the 
pension provider was, although the late Mr D had told her that he had made financial 
provision for her in the event of his death. But, following Mr Ds death, Ms D was informed 
that there wasnt a lasting will in place, so she entered into a complex legal situation against 
the other beneficiaries of the late Mr Ds estate. This involved far more than just the pension 
plans and was both time consuming and costly. 
 
Royal London says it was informed of Mr Ds passing by a financial adviser  who was 
acting as a personal representative - on 16 January 2020. Their letter also asked Royal 
London to provide some information about the pension policies he held with it. Royal London 
acknowledged the claim and sent out a bereavement information form in order to consider 
the eligibility of all the beneficiaries who had been nominated by the late Mr D. 
Around the same time Royal London was contacted by a solicitor acting for the other 
beneficiaries. It provided another bereavement information form and said that it would 
proceed with the claim when it had received all the outstanding requirements. However, 
Royal London did note all the beneficiaries who were part of the late Mr Ds expression of 
wishes  which included Ms D. 
In February 2021, having received some correspondence from the other beneficiarys 
solicitor, Ms Ds solicitor wrote to Royal London and noted her interest in one of the policies 
and asked if any further information was required. 
In May 2021 Ms Ds solicitor provided Royal London with a completed bereavement 
information form, and further documents to support Ms Ds position as being the late Mr Ds 
long term partner. 
On 17 June 2021 the solicitor returned a completed options form and lump sum payment 
form as well as enclosing identification details. It asked for the payment to be made as soon 
as possible because of Ms Ds financial position. 
On 29 July 2021 Royal London confirmed that Ms D was a nominated beneficiary of one of 
the late Mr Ds plans and his expression of wish was that she should receive 25% of the 
pension. It said the claim value would be calculated from when it received the last of its 
outstanding requirements from all the beneficiaries. 
The outstanding information from the other beneficiaries was eventually provided to Royal 
London in August and September 2021, and Royal London confirmed the claim was settled 
in favour of all the nominated beneficiaries on 13 October 2021.  
But Ms D then complained about the delay in paying her share of the benefits from the late 
Mr Ds pension plan. Royal London responded making the following points:
It recognised the matter had been ongoing for some considerable time.
Its procedures meant that it was unable to finalise the claim until it had received the 
relevant documentation from all the beneficiaries. Because of the ongoing dispute 
with the other beneficiaries it hadnt always received the relevant paperwork it 
required. This wasnt something it was able to control.
Recent legislation had meant that additional money laundering checks were required, 
and this had impacted the speed with which it had been able to process the claim.
It had now settled the claim and the money would be in Ms Ds bank account within 
3-5 working days. But to make up for the impact of not being able to process the 
claim on 16 September 2021 it paid a further £478.16 in interest.
In November 2021 Ms D received letters from Royal London which were addressed to the 
late Mr D. The letters related to the other policies the late Mr D held for which Ms D wasnt a 
beneficiary. She contacted Royal London to ask why the letters had been sent when the 
claim had been paid and questioned why she hadnt received any proceeds from those 
plans. 
Royal London apologised for the letters being sent as it had failed to mark the late Mr Ds 
records accordingly. It also confirmed that it had simply followed the late Mr Ds expression 
of wishes for the other plans  which didnt include Ms D. Royal London made a payment of 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the sending of the letters.
  
But Ms D wasnt happy with the outcome of either matter and brought her complaint to us  
where one of our investigators looked into the matter. She didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld making the following points in support of her assessment:
Ms D was nominated as a beneficiary on one of the policies the late Mr D held. But 
the nomination wasnt binding  simply an expression of wish - which Royal London 
needed to consider as part of its overall decision about where the pension benefits 
should be paid. 
Royal London needed to gather information about the late Mr Ds personal 
circumstances and so it wasnt obliged to notify Ms D of anything until it received this 
information. So the investigator didnt think Royal London had done anything wrong 
in handling the claim.
She also noted that any delays in paying out the claim were due to the delays in 
returning the necessary paperwork to Royal London.
She noted that Royal London had inadvertently sent two letters to the late Mr D and 
recognised this would have caused Ms D a great deal of upset. But as they were sent 
to the late Mr D and didnt relate to Ms Ds relationship with Royal London as a 
beneficiary, then she didnt think we were able to consider whether the offer was fair 
and made no further comment on the matter.Ms D didnt agree. She said that she didnt receive a bereavement information form from 
Royal London and wasnt even contacted by it. So she questioned how Royal London came 
to an informed decision about her eligibility as a beneficiary when she never provided any of 
the information it required. She suspected the form had been completed by a third party and 
because of the nature of the court proceedings she was going through she wasnt sure if it 
was completed with her best interests in mind. 
She did however understand that as she had no relationship with Royal London as a 
customer she didnt have a right to complain about the letters which were sent to the late 
Mr D in error. 
The investigator said that, after further investigation she had discovered that Ms Ds solicitor 
had completed the bereavement form on her behalf and submitted 12 documents in support 
of her position as financially dependent on the late Mr D. Details of other potential 
beneficiaries were included but with no supporting evidence of dependence. So she thought 
Ms Ds position had been well explained and that the evidence would have formed part of 
Royal Londons consideration when it made its decision as to the destination of the pension 
payment.
Ms D accepted that the form had been filled in independently on her behalf but wanted to 
know more about the process of how death claims were made.
Following a discussion with the investigator Ms D remained unhappy with the outcome and 
wanted the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So it was passed to me to consider. 
Ms D made the following points in advance of my review:
She didnt understand why she hadnt been informed she was a beneficiary before 
Royal London made its decision about paying the pension benefits.
She believes she would have been left in the dark if it wasnt for the court case.
She says she had to demonstrate that some things that were said were untrue. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. I know that will 
disappoint Ms D as Ive seen how strongly she feels about this matter during what must have 
been a very difficult time for her. But I dont think Royal London has acted unfairly here  so 
Ill explain my reasoning.
Should Royal London have contacted Ms D earlier in the claim process?
Royal London said it was made aware of Mr Ds passing in January 2020, around a month 
after his death. At that time, as there were three policies in his name  which all had 
nominated beneficiaries, Royal London was obliged to carry out its duty as trustee of the 
plans. So it sent the appropriate forms to the personal representatives and subsequently to 
the solicitor that contacted it on behalf of the other beneficiaries. The purpose of the forms  
as set out in a letter from Royal London - was to ensure an informed decision can be made, 
as to how this claim can be settled, we must gather as much information as possible. We 
must make certain that our discretion has been properly exercised. Mr D made an 
expression of wish that, in the event of his death, Royal London are to consider paying the 
settlement of this claim to xxxx. This will of course be taken into consideration; however we 
must gather all necessary information before a final decision can be made. Of course as trustees of the funds Royal London had a duty of care to ensure the plans 
werent paid out inappropriately and also to make sure nothing had changed significantly 
which might have shown Mr Ds wishes to be out of date or inappropriate. 
Royal London also said the solicitor should refer to the attached bereavement information 
form for the required information and documentation. Once we have received the completed 
form and all required documentation, we will be able to proceed with this claim. 
So I think Royal London acted appropriately in the circumstances. It provided the necessary 
forms to determine who should receive payment within a few days of being informed of 
Mr Ds passing and explained its role as trustee and the need for the forms to be returned in 
order for the claim to be progressed. I dont think Royal London caused any delay here and it 
sent the forms to the appropriate parties. Unfortunately, because of a dispute between Ms D 
and the other beneficiaries the information about the pensions wasnt shared and it wasnt 
until around a year later that Ms Ds solicitor was made aware and lodged her interest with 
Royal London.
But I dont think Royal London was under any obligation to contact Ms D about her possible 
entitlement to a share of one of the plans. I say that because Royal London needed to act as 
a trustee here and simply required the information it had requested about all the 
beneficiaries. It wasnt obliged to contact each one individually  just the representatives 
acting on behalf of the estate. I dont think Royal London could be held responsible for the 
rift which had occurred and which prevented information being shared freely between the 
beneficiaries. But I also dont believe Royal London would have held contact details for 
individual beneficiaries. The original consent from which was included with Mr Ds group 
stakeholder plan application said that I would like the scheme administrator to consider 
paying the money to whereafter the names of the beneficiaries and the percentage to be 
allocated to each one was set out.
So I dont think Royal London had the capacity or detailed information to let each individual 
beneficiary know about their entitlement. I think it relied on the representatives responsible 
for sorting out the late Mr Ds estate to provide the information it needed. But even if that 
meant there was a delay in making Ms D aware of the situation, Royal Londons records 
indicated that she was to be considered as a beneficiary for one of the plans. So if it hadnt 
been made aware of her details during the process, Im satisfied it wouldnt have processed 
the whole claim until that information had been provided for its consideration. I dont think 
theres any evidence to support Ms Ds claim that she wouldnt have been considered as 
part of the claim unless she had registered her interest. But in any case, even I am wrong in 
my supposition Ms D was ultimately included in the claim and received the appropriate 
payment according to the late Mr Ds expression of wishes.
I have some sympathy for Ms Ds position here as I can understand that in the midst of a 
very difficult time and legal battle, it would have seemed to her that she wasnt made aware 
of part of the provision that Mr D had put aside for her and that she might not have ever 
received it had her solicitor not become aware of the position.
But it must be remembered here that Mr Ds wishes were simply an expression of what he 
would like Royal London to do in the event of his death. It was for Royal London to make all 
the necessary enquiries to decide if it should pay in accordance with those wishes or take an 
alternative course of action. So it wouldnt have been fair to have told Ms D that she was 
automatically eligible for part of the proceeds, in case Royal Londons investigation proved 
otherwise. 
Did Royal London delay payment of the claim?Ive already said that I think Royal London acted in a timely manner in issuing the relevant 
information requests when it was made aware of Mr Ds passing. But I have also considered 
its actions when it began progressing the claim in 2021. It wasnt until around a year after 
Royal London was made aware of a claim that Ms Ds solicitor was in a position to register 
her interest in the claim and request the relevant paperwork and forms. The evidence Ive 
been provided with shows that the last of these forms  which gave direction of how and 
where to pay the proceeds, was returned to Royal London in June 2021. 
But the claim wasnt settled until October 2021, some four months later. So Ive looked 
carefully at what happened during this time and Ive noted that both parties solicitors were in 
constant communication to try to resolve the question of why all the outstanding 
requirements hadnt been returned to Royal London. Its not material to this complaint to 
consider the cause of this dispute except to confirm that it wasnt Royal Londons 
responsibility, and it was unable to progress matters until this paperwork had been 
submitted. Ive also seen that there were some delays towards the end of the process, but 
these seem to involve the need for further identification verification for some of the 
beneficiaries  which Royal London says was due to some changes in the money laundering 
regulations. 
But I think Royal London continued to chase these outstanding requirements and theres no 
evidence to suggest it didnt progress things in a timely manner when the information was 
returned. Overall theres nothing to support any claim that Royal London caused a delay to 
any part of the claim process here and I think the length of time the process took was due to 
the legal dispute between the parties which meant information wasnt or couldnt be returned 
to Royal London which would have allowed a swifter progression.
The letters addressed to the late Mr D
I can well understand the distress Ms D must have been caused when two letters  about 
the other policies she wasnt a beneficiary of, were sent to the late Mr D after the claim had 
been settled. I understand this would have caused further concern about why she hadnt 
been a beneficiary on those two polices as well. Royal London has explained that it failed to 
put a marker on the late Mr Ds account, which it should have done in the event of his death, 
to ensure no further correspondence was issued. It apologised for the distress and upset this 
caused Ms D and offered her £100 in compensation.
But our investigator explained to Ms D that despite the obvious distress that would been 
caused, we wouldnt usually be able to consider a complaint such as this as Ms D didnt 
have a relationship, or a potential relationship with Royal London  so she wasnt an eligible 
complainant. Ms D has accepted this position and understands that we cant comment 
further on an issue over which we dont have jurisdiction. So Im unable to say whether I 
think the offer is fair or not and Ill leave it to Ms D to decide if she wants to accept Royal 
Londons offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman