DRN-2621225
The complaint
Ms G is unhappy that delays and errors caused by Barclays Bank UK PLC led to her missing 
an opportunity to reclaim money she paid to a builder with whom she has a dispute over the 
work he carried out.
What happened
Ms G told us in early 2019 she paid a builder a total of £11,300 for work to be done on her 
house. The builder was due to come back in August 2019 to complete the work but never 
returned. She raised the issue with Barclays on 9 November 2019. Barclays registered the 
issue as a scam and told her it would investigate. Ms G felt that this meant her funds would 
be recoverable.
Ms G contacted Barclays on 14 January 2020 and it advised it would send up a chaser
letter to the third-party bank as it hadnt heard back from it. Although the call handler knew at 
this time Ms Gs dispute was not considered a scam, he didnt relay this to Ms G. 
Ms G called Barclays again on 21 May 2020 and was shocked to find out that her case was 
closed. Barclays said it had written to Ms G twice (19 November 2019 and 6 January 2020) 
to confirm this and that the dispute was with her builder. Ms G says she never received 
these letters.
A complaint was raised on 21 May 2020 and Ms G received a response on 28 May 2020
which explained Barclays couldnt do anything about the dispute with her builder. However, it 
acknowledged that due to system errors it did not provide Ms G with the letters detailing the 
outcome to her claim and the call handler on 14 January 2020 also had the opportunity to 
confirm this to her. It credited her account with £200.00 in recognitions of these errors. 
Ms G remained unhappy. She feels that Barclays claimed falsely that it had sent her letters 
when it hadnt, and she feels that she lost a chance to trace the builder to recover her 
money.
In order to resolve the complaint, Ms G would like compensation for the recovery of her
loss, stress and anxiety Barclays caused her.
Ms G feels that the poor service and delays by Barclays Bank UK PLC led her to missing the 
opportunity to recover her funds through the courts.
As the case could not be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision. I 
apologise for the length of time it has taken to reach this stage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it was reasonable for Barclays to consider this a civil matter rather than a scam. I say 
this because in the case of a scam, Id usually expect an illegitimate company to be involved, 
and for a good or service not to be provided  and for there never have been intent for it to 
be provided. But in this case the builder carried work and completed at least part of the 
contract. The dissatisfaction with the lack of completion of the contract or the quality of the 
work  is a civil dispute rather than a scam.
There is only very limited scope for Barclays to try to recover payments which are properly 
authorised by the sender and made by bank transfer. And unfortunately, for the reasons 
above, I dont think those apply here. There is a protocol banks should follow, if someones 
sent a payment to the wrong person by mistake. But thats not the case here. Ms G intended 
to make these payments, as she understood that the company could carry out the works that 
she wanted. Indeed, as I understand it, work was carried out.
I know that Ms G thinks the company acted fraudulently, promising something she thinks it 
didnt deliver. But I dont think it would be reasonable for Barclays to take the same steps in 
this case, that our service might expect it to take, if, for example, Ms G had been cold called 
by someone who managed to get access to her bank account. Rather, I think that the 
resulting dispute is an issue which would be appropriate for a court to decide, after having 
the chance to hear evidence from both Ms G and the builder. Barclays is not responsible for 
the standard of the work provided by the builder.
Whilst there were errors made by Barclays here, I cant possibly make a finding that 
Barclays has caused Ms G a lost opportunity to reclaim her money. I cant even say whether 
she is entitled to all the money she is now claiming  from whats been said it seems like 
some work had been done. 
In any event, whilst I again acknowledge there were errors by Barclays, I cant conclusively 
say any delays have caused Ms G to unsuccessfully reclaim her money back through other 
avenues. I dont know whether, if she had made a claim through other means at an earlier 
date that, it would have been successful. It could have been too late by November when she 
first reported the dispute to Barclays. Although I do appreciate Ms G insists otherwise; there 
is nothing to substantiate her claim.
I dont agree Barclays ever acknowledged this was a scam, it simply registered it as one 
and said it would investigate it. Registering a scam to investigate - doesnt automatically 
mean it is a scam. And it would need time to investigate the matter in order to determine 
whether it was a scam or not. In any event, in situations where there is a scam, it 
doesnt automatically follow that a bank is liable for a loss, just because a customer is a 
victim of fraud.
Barclays has acknowledged due to system errors it did not provide Ms G with the letters 
detailing the outcome to her claim and also that the call handler on 14 January 2020 had the 
opportunity to confirm this to her. I appreciate all of this caused Ms G unnecessary anxiety. 
Barclays has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint and I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances. As I understand it this has already been paid to Ms G. On this 
basis I dont think Barclays needs to do anything more to settle the complaint.
None of what Ive said here is meant to underestimate the impact that Ms G says this had on
her. But I hope shell understand that, as an impartial service, we have to look at both sides
of every dispute that is referred to us. And that means that we have to consider the evidence
thats provided and reach our own independent view of whats fair and reasonable in the
circumstances of a complaint.
My final decisionMy final decision is I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman