DRN-4011142
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) failed to process a balance transfer offer 
that was available on her credit card. She said she has lost out through paying considerably 
higher interest as a result. 
What happened
In October 2022, Mrs C contacted BoS in relation to a credit card balance transfer offer she 
said shed received in the post. She said the offer allowed her to transfer across a credit card 
balance from another provider and pay 0% on the new balance for a period of 15 months. 
Mrs C said she contacted BoS on a number of occasions in relation to this offer, and 
received poor service throughout. She said she made around five calls, including some 
where she was told the offer was available, but no one was around to process it. And others, 
where she was told there was no trace of an offer having been made. So, she complained.
BoS responded, and said that there were no further balance transfer offers currently 
available that she could benefit from at the time of addressing her complaint, and they could 
no longer honour the original offer as it had since expired. They did agree that Mrs C had 
been unnecessarily transferred to multiple departments though, and given conflicting 
information about what was and wasnt available. Overall, they agreed the service was poor. 
So, they sent Mrs C a payment of £75 as compensation for the poor service she received. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs C brought her complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered the complaint and recommend it was upheld. He said he was 
satisfied there were shortcomings in the service BoS provided and that, as a result, Mrs C 
lost out on the balance transfer offer. And he recommended BoS increase their offer of 
compensation to Mrs C to £250 in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused. He 
said they should also let Mrs C know about any future balance transfer offers available.
BoS accepted the investigators findings, but Mrs C didnt. She said she would accept the 
payment of £250 for the poor call handling on BoSs part. But she said shed suffered a far 
greater financial hardship as a result of BOSs failure to honour the offer theyd made. And 
she said that her losses were the potential benefit she couldve made in savings from the 
transfer, which potentially amounted to thousands of pounds. So, as Mrs C remained 
unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that, at the time Mrs C initially contacted BoS, there was a balance transfer 
offer available. And BoS have accepted that the overall service they provided was poor.
I havent gone into fine detail within this decision of all the errors that were made, because 
BoS arent disputing the fact that the service levels fell short  but, to clarify, I think the 
significant number of calls Mrs C had to make, where she was often given conflicting 
information and passed from department to department, as well as being told at some points 
that no offer was available is not what Mrs C shouldve come to expect from BoS. And Im 
satisfied these shortcomings resulted in Mrs C missing out on the transfer offer.  So, Ive 
gone on to look at how I think BoS should put things right. 
BoS have explained that the initial offer that was in place expired in October 2022, and Ive 
seen evidence to support this. So, while I accept this shouldve been available to Mrs C 
when she initially called, I am satisfied that it is no longer available now, and not something 
that BoS can currently transfer Mrs Cs balance to. But I am pleased to see that BoS have 
agreed to let Mrs C know about any future offers available  I think this was the right thing to 
do. 
Looking at BoSs initial offer of compensation, I dont think the £75 paid is sufficient to reflect 
the overall distress this matter wouldve caused Mrs C. Mrs C has argued that her losses are 
the ongoing interest she has continued to pay on her existing card, as a result of not being 
able to carry out the balance transfer, which could potentially have amounted to thousands  
of pounds. She has also mentioned monthly payments of around £500 that she was paying   
towards her card. 
I can understand why Mrs C is seeking to be compensated more, and that she feels that 
BoS are responsible for the future losses she may experience. That being said, I also need 
to balance this with what Mrs C could have done to mitigate those losses. 
Looking first at the payments Mrs C has referred to paying on her existing credit card of 
£500. While I appreciate this was the payment she had been making, it appears that her 
monthly interest charge was much closer to £200 per calendar month based on the balance 
on the statement she provided. And a large proportion of that £500 payment went, and 
would go, towards her capital balance, rather than the interest. 
Also, while I accept Mrs C will have paid a lot more in interest if she continued to keep her 
balance on an interest bearing account with her current provider, equally, if Mrs C did want 
to mitigate her position and was concerned with interest taking up most of her monthly 
repayments, she had the option to look and apply for more preferential rates elsewhere. So, 
while its unfortunate that Mrs C missed out on the BoS offer, which I appreciate she feels 
was attractive, I dont think that leaving her existing balance on an interest-bearing credit 
card was likely to be the only alternative option. So, I dont think its fair to hold BoS 
responsible for the additional interest losses she said she experienced. 
To sum up, while Im satisfied that there were failings on BoSs part, and that these failings 
meant that Mrs C had lost out, I also think there is more that Mrs C could have potentially 
done to mitigate those losses. And, when taking all of that into account, given that the 
investigators recommendation of £250 covers more than a months interest at the time of 
the transfer, and provides extra funds which I think recognises the shortcomings in the 
service she received over the phone, on balance, I think this offer is fair. 
So, for these reasons I wont be asking BoS to do anything more than its agreed to. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
I now require Bank of Scotland to pay Mrs C £250 in compensation in total.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman