DRN-2399196
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Studio Retail Limited trading as Studio failed to arrange the collection 
of damaged goods.  
What happened
Mrs D held an account with Studio and ordered various items. Some of the items were 
damaged when she received them, so she contacted Studio to arrange for them to be 
returned.
In December 2019, Studio told Mrs D that a third-party courier would collect the goods ad 
that Mrs D would receive a credit to her account. 
Mrs D contacted Studio in December 2019 and advised that the courier had been unable to 
collect the goods. Further collections were arranged but the goods still werent collected.
Mrs D raised a complaint with Studio. She said shed taken time off work to wait for the 
courier to collect the goods.
Studio responded and apologised for the customer service Mrs D had received. It credited 
the goods back to her account and offed compensation of £50 for the inconvenience caused.
Mrs D thought this was acceptable until she realised that Studio had added charges to her 
account because she had refused to make payments whilst her complaint was being 
investigated. She brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that although refunding Mrs D for the 
damaged items was the correct outcome, he would also expect Studio to make sure Mrs D 
wasnt out of pocket  as a result of the complaint, and that in this case, the charges applied 
to her account when her account was being investigated should be refunded, and further 
compensation of £50 paid to her.
Mrs D didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that there were failings by the third-party courier contracted by Studio to 
collect Mrs Ds damaged items. The issue here is whether Studio did enough to put things 
right for Mrs D.
I can see that Mrs D stopped making payments to her account when she complained to 
Studio. She brought the account back up to date once her complaint had been resolved. 
However, she discovered that during the time her complaint was being investigated, Studio 
had applied fees and charges to the account because she had missed payments. This 
meant that, although the goods were credited and compensation of £50 paid, Mrs D was left 
to pay the fees and charges which had been added to the account.
Mrs D has also complained about the customer service she received when she raised a 
complaint with Studio. Ive listened to the available telephone calls, but I dont think Studio 
treated Mrs D unfairly during these. Its clear that there was some confusion in some of the 
calls, so I understand why Mrs D felt frustrated.
Ive also reviewed the emails which Mrs D sent to Studio. Some of these werent responded 
to by Studio. I can see that this wouldve added to Mrs Ds frustration. So overall, I think its 
fair to say that Studio couldve handled things better.
Putting things right
I think crediting the account was the correct outcome to Mrs Ds complaint. But I dont think it 
was fair for Studio to add charges to the account whist Mrs Ds complaint was being 
investigated. I dont think Mrs D expected to be charged for not making payments in relation 
to items which shed repeatedly asked to return.
Although Studio has already paid some compensation for poor service, I dont think this goes 
far enough to reflect the failed collections, as well as the number of times that Mrs D had to 
contact Studio about this, and the level of confusion in some of the telephone calls as well as 
the emails which werent responded to.  I think its fair to ask Studio to pay further 
compensation to Mrs D.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Studio Retail Limited trading as Studio must 
refund the fees and charges applied to the account, and pay further compensation of £50 to 
Mrs D.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman