DRN-3762195
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) refused to pay for matching 
items when he claimed under his home insurance policy for a damaged door.
What happened
Mr F claimed under his home insurance policy after accidentally damaging one of his garage 
doors. The doors were no longer available to buy, so RSA said it would cover the cost of 
replacing both doors under the matching items term of his policy. Because of the lead time 
for ordering the doors, RSA agreed that Mr F could source his own replacement and it would 
settle the invoice. 
However, RSA then said it would only cover 50% of the undamaged door, later changing its 
offer again to cover just the damaged door. RSA said the policy only covered matching items 
for bathroom suites, kitchen units and three-piece suites. Mr F was unhappy with the 
changing decisions and complained to RSA. It offered him £100 compensation which he said 
hed accept if RSA also paid for both garage doors.
In the meantime, Mr F ordered his garage doors and RSA offered a cash settlement for one 
door. But the offer was based on its suppliers quote for one door plus 50% of the 
undamaged door, so RSA contacted Mr F to say the cash settlement would be lower than 
stated.
Mr F complained to RSA and it accepted that its service had fallen short of what should be 
expected. It maintained its decision to pay for only one door, but it offered to refund the £250 
policy excess that Mr F had already paid. Mr F remained unhappy and brought his complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Fs complaint. She thought RSA had made a fair offer to refund 
the policy excess and pay a further £100 compensation in recognition of the changing 
information it provided. But our investigator didnt think it was fair to class the garage door as 
an individual item. She agreed that the policy didnt provide cover but, in line with industry 
practice, she recommended that RSA cash settled 50% of the undamaged door, along with 
simple interest for the time from Mr Fs payment to its settlement of the claim..
Neither Mr F nor RSA agreed. 
Mr F remained of the view that RSA made a binding offer when it first said it would pay for 
both doors, so he thought it was contractually obliged to settle the full claim.
RSA said the policy was clear. It only covered specified matching items and garage doors 
were not included.  
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint, but I wont be requiring RSA to pay 
the full claim. Ill explain.
Compensation 
The facts arent disputed. RSA accepted Mr Fs claim and it agreed that it made the 
mistakes Mr F said it did. RSA offered a total of £350 compensation in recognition of the 
shortfalls. To be clear, the policy excess is payable because RSA accepted Mr Fs claim. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that its offer to refund it amounts to compensation.
The compensation is not intended to put matters right  it is by way of apology for the 
mistakes RSA made when handling Mr Fs claim. Ive looked at the timeline of events and 
see that RSA told Mr F it wouldnt be paying for both garage doors three weeks before he 
placed his order for two doors. Therefore, Im satisfied that Mr F was aware of the limitations 
of RSAs offer before he incurred the cost of two garage doors. As theres no evidence that 
RSAs mixed responses caused Mr F any direct loss which needs to be put right, I consider it 
a fair and reasonable sum. 
I wont be asking RSA to increase the compensation payment.
Matching items
RSA said garage doors are not classed as matching items. Mr F said RSA should cover both 
doors because it said it would when he first made his claim.
Theres no dispute that garage doors are not named in the policy as matching items; nor is 
there any dispute that RSA offered to cover the cost of both doors to begin with.
The dispute is whether that became a binding agreement regardless of whether garage 
doors were specified in the policy. 
The insurance policy itself is the contract, and that sets out what RSA will do in the event of 
a claim. In respect of matching items, where only one part is damaged, the policy says:
Matching sets, suites and carpets
Where items originally purchased as part of a set cannot be matched and an appropriate 
replacement cannot be sourced, we will pay for accompanying items from a bathroom 
suite, three-piece suite or kitchen unit (excluding kitchen appliances) if one individual item 
is damaged.
In all other circumstances an individual item from a matching set of articles is regarded as 
a single item. We will pay you for individual damaged items but not for undamaged 
companion pieces.
The policy specifies the matching items it will pay for and garage doors are not included. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that RSA was under no obligation to pay for the undamaged garage 
door.That said, good industry practice is to consider paying towards the undamaged matching 
item if appropriate in the circumstances. RSA said it didnt consider garage doors to be 
matching items, but its here that I disagree. 
The two garage doors close to form a single barrier to entry, and there must be an element 
of fitting together to form an effective barrier which goes beyond the policy alternative of the 
second door being a companion piece. I can see why RSA would decline cover for, say, a 
matching lamp. That would be a companion piece because, if replaced with a mismatched 
lamp, the other would still work to its fullest extent. However, mismatched doors may not fit 
together as well and, therefore, wouldnt necessarily provide an effective and secure barrier. 
So, I struggle to see why the garage doors wouldnt be considered in line with industry 
practice.
For this reason, I consider it fair and reasonable for RSA to follow industry practice and 
cover 50% of the cost of the undamaged garage door. For clarity, the cost would be that 
incurred if RSA used its own supplier, so it will reflect the offer - previously made in error - of 
£5,445.57, less the policy excess.
Binding agreement
Mr F has already paid for two doors and he believes that RSA was contractually bound to 
settle his claim for both doors because it said it would. As Ive already said, the contract was 
the insurance policy, and RSAs contractual obligation was to settle the claim in line with the 
policy. Its evident that RSAs agents made mistakes when they offered to settle in full, in 
part, and with the wrong amount. In these circumstances, I cant agree that the mistakes 
formed an obligation on RSA to pay for both doors. RSA corrected its mistakes, and Mr F 
was aware that it wasnt intending to cover the cost of both doors before he ordered them. 
So, I dont find that RSA caused him to incur additional costs.
I see no reason to require RSA to pay for both doors in full.
Overall, its evident that RSA made mistakes in its handling of Mr Fs claim. But Im satisfied 
that the compensation already offered adequately addresses the shortfalls. However, I 
consider it fair and reasonable for RSA to contribute towards the undamaged door in line 
with industry practice. Further, as Mr F paid for his replacement doors, I consider it 
reasonable for RSA to pay 8% pa simple interest on the settlement from the date Mr F paid 
the invoice to the date RSA pays his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance plc must:
contribute 50% of the cost to replace Mr Fs undamaged garage door, based on its 
own supplier costs; 
pay 8% pa simple interest* on the settlement from the date Mr F paid his invoice to 
the date RSA makes payment;
refund Mr Fs £250 policy excess, if it hasnt already done so, and 
pay £100 compensation, if it hasnt already done so.*If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr F a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman