DRN-2065788
The complaint
Mr B complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) loaned to him 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
In October 2019 Mr B took out a Lending Stream loan for £550, repayable over six months. 
Mr B mainly said that Lending Stream shouldnt have provided him with a loan that was 
unaffordable. He felt that Lending Stream didnt do proper checks and Mr B told us he had 
other loans already outstanding when he asked to borrow from Lending Stream. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr B and Lending Stream told us about this loan. 
In summary, our adjudicator thought:
given the loan amount, what was apparent about Mr Bs circumstances at the time 
and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate to ask Mr B for 
the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable
there wasnt anything in the information Mr B provided, or the information Lending 
Stream shouldve been aware of, which meant that Lending Stream shouldve taken 
steps to verify the information Mr B had declared
as this was the first loan Mr B had taken out with Lending Stream, Mr B didn't have 
any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted Lending Stream to any 
underlying money problems. 
So our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr B told us that he wasnt completely satisfied with the outcome our adjudicator was 
suggesting and asked about the possibility of having the loan removed from his credit file. 
Our adjudicator explored this option with Lending Stream but as this hasnt led to Mr Bs 
complaint being settled, it comes to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Lending Stream provided Mr B with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use and 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide the loan irresponsibly. 
In practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr B could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Bs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. 
Before lending to Mr B, Lending Stream asked Mr B for information on his financial situation, 
such as his monthly income and his outgoings. It also asked about any other credit 
commitments and carried out credit checks. 
This was Mr Bs first (and only) loan with Lending Stream. So I think Lending Stream could 
reasonably rely on the information Mr B provided. Looking at the monthly loan repayment 
amounts and the loan term, and the information Lending Stream had on record for Mr B, 
including what it appears Mr B told Lending Stream about his monthly income and what he 
was paying out each month and also spending on other credit, this didnt point to the loan 
being unaffordable for Mr B. 
After taking into account his take home pay and other spending, including the figure of 
around £325 each month it appears he told Lending Stream he was spending on other credit 
expenses, Mr B still shouldve had more than £600 left over to pay for this loan. As the 
biggest monthly repayment due on this loan was around £179, this wouldve looked 
comfortably affordable for Mr B.  
Im sorry that Mr B had a problem with debt and that repaying this loan was difficult for him. 
I accept that in reality Mr Bs actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either in 
the information he provided, or the other information Lending Stream obtained. 
But wed expect Lending Stream to decide Mr Bs lending application based on the 
information it was reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Lending Stream to lend  especially as there wasnt 
anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Mr B wouldnt be able to repay the 
loan in a sustainable way. And I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Lending 
Stream to probe any more deeply into Mr Bs finances or ask Mr B to prove what he was 
declaring or check other information sources to verify what he had told them (or omitted to 
say) about his financial circumstances.
In order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. And, 
in this case, I dont think that Lending Stream did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan 
to Mr B. So I cant require Lending Stream to amend his credit file in the way Mr B would 
like.
I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment to Mr B. But I hope that 
setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman