DRN-4252981
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with what happened when she returned a car financed by a conditional 
sale agreement with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer 
Finance.
Mrs M says she thought she paid a larger deposit than was returned to her.
What happened
In July 2022 Mrs M acquired a used car from a dealer funded in part by a conditional sale 
agreement provided by Santander. The car cost £64,000. Mrs M sold her previous car to the 
dealer, who settled the associated finance agreement, and the new credit agreement 
records an advance payment of £14,157.73.
Mrs M was unhappy with the car and it was returned to the dealer under a 14 day money 
back guarantee. When the car was returned, the dealer explained Mrs M would only receive 
£7,428.43 back from the deposit. It said this was because £6,729.30 was a dealer deposit 
contribution and the funds werent due to Mrs M.
Mrs M was unhappy with this. She explained when she had sold her previous car to the 
dealer at no point did it explain that part of the agreement was for a dealer deposit 
contribution. She complained to Santander and it issued a final response in October 2022.
In its final response, Santander explained £6,729.30 was a contribution towards the deposit 
from the cars manufacturer. It said this wouldnt be due back to Mrs M as this would put her 
in a better position than she wouldve been had she not taken out the finance.
Mrs M remained unhappy and referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator issued 
a view explaining she didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said, in summary, 
that she was persuaded there was a dealer deposit contribution provided to Mrs M and she 
didnt think it was reasonable for Santander to pay this back. She said she had heard a 
phone call where Mrs M explained she knew a dealer contribution was being paid towards 
the agreement. And, while Mrs M said she didnt know how much this was, our investigator 
said it wouldve been reasonable to query this at the time.
Mrs M disagreed. She said, in summary, that the previous car that was sold to the dealer 
had issues with it, and the dealer explained because of this the manufacturer had agreed to 
give an increased amount for the purchase of this car. But Mrs M said she never wouldve 
agreed to sell the car for the lower amount if she knew the amount from the purchase price 
wouldnt be returned to her. She said it was never explained to her that the amount she 
agreed to sell the previous car for was, in effect, dependent on her keeping the newer car. 
And she said none of the paperwork from the time reflected this.
I sent Mrs M and Santander a provisional decision on 19 June 2023. My findings from this 
decision were as follows:
Mrs M complains about a conditional sale agreement. Entering into regulated consumer 
credit agreements such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can 
consider Mrs Ms complaint about Santander.
I should begin by explaining that Mrs M has made another complaint about the quality of the 
car that was sold to the dealer here. Ill not comment on that here - this decision will only 
address the specific circumstances around this credit agreement and the specific points Mrs 
M has raised in relation to it.
When thinking about whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law, guidance 
and regulations. Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S56) is relevant to this 
complaint. This explains, under certain circumstances, that finance providers are liable for 
what a supplier or credit broker tells a consumer before an agreement is entered into. Im 
satisfied S56 applies here, so Santander are responsible for what the dealer told Mrs M 
about the credit agreement before she entered into it.
Santander had a responsibility to make sure the communication around the finance 
agreement was not misleading. So, Ill consider if this was the case or not. And Ill consider if 
its explanation of what happened here is correct.
Its worth commenting here that Mrs M selling the car to the dealer isnt a regulated activity in 
itself, but given the circumstances directly affect the deposit amount on the regulated credit 
agreement Mrs M entered into, Im satisfied I can consider what happened here as part of 
this complaint. But, to be clear, Im only looking at Santanders responsibilities, not the 
dealers.
Ive considered the documents Mrs M wouldve seen at the time.
Looking at the credit agreement Mrs M signed, this says:
Advance payment: £14,157.73
Ive seen a USED INVOICE that Mrs M signed at the time. This records:
Net P/Ex Allowances 14157.73
Looking at the USED VEHICLE PURCHASE INVOICE Mrs M signed at the time, this 
contains the details of Mrs Ms previous car. It says:
I have sold the vehicle for the price stated below
Purchase Price 56729.30
Invoice total 56729.30
Less settlement 42571.57
Net 14157.73
Having reviewed the above and the other documents from the time, I can see no mention 
nor explanation of a dealer contribution.
I have seen a screenshot of the dealers system notes, which detail that the manufacturer 
made a contribution of £6,729.30. But, importantly, I havent seen anything to suggest this 
was presented to Mrs M.
Its slightly difficult to unpick what happened here. But, from the paperwork and what Santander, the dealer and Mrs M have told us, Im satisfied I understand the situation.
Firstly, its important to note that, based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied the manufacturer did 
contribute £6,729.30 when Mrs M sold her car. But the important thing is to consider what 
happened to these funds.
What it appears Santander are saying occurred was that the funds from the manufacturer 
were used as a deposit contribution. This is relatively common  what I would expect to see 
under these circumstances is that the funds would be paid from the manufacturer to the 
dealer. The dealer would then use these funds to add to the deposit  in other words these 
funds would be paid directly to Santander by the dealer. This would mean, here, that the 
deposit would be made up of £6,729.30 from the manufacturer/dealer and £7,428.43 from 
Mrs M.
In these circumstances, it would make sense that Mrs M would not be due these funds back 
if the car was returned and the finance cancelled. Thats because, in simple terms, Mrs M 
never had the funds. So, shed effectively be better off by cancelling the finance agreement, 
which wouldnt be reasonable. Its worth noting here, that if this was the case, Id expect to 
see the paperwork from the time reflecting Mrs M selling her car to the dealer for £50,000.
But, having reviewed everything, Im satisfied this isnt what happened. Based on the 
paperwork Ive seen, it appears that the manufacturer paid funds to the dealer, who then 
used these funds to buy the car from Mrs M rather than giving them to Santander. The 
previous finance was then settled, and the remaining funds from the sale of the car paid to 
Santander and taken forward onto the new agreement as the deposit.
This is an important difference, as here Mrs M did have the funds from the manufacturer  
these were paid to her when she sold the car. Im basing this on the fact that the paperwork 
specifically says that the dealer bought Mrs Ms car from her for £56,729.30  not £50,000.
To be clear, this means the total funds for the deposit appear to have come from Mrs M.
Ive listened to the call Santander provided. I accept Mrs Ms representative does mention a 
dealer contribution, but this isnt enough to persuade me to change my opinion. Thats 
because this call took place after the agreement was entered into. And they also specifically 
say that at no point was it ever explained what part of a deposit came from the dealer.
So, in summary, Im satisfied here that there wasnt a dealer contribution to the deposit. Im 
satisfied the manufacturer paid funds to the dealer, who then used the funds to buy Mrs Ms 
car from her  but this is quite different. This means Santanders explanation of what 
happened isnt right here. And, whatever happened, Im satisfied the situation wasnt made 
clear to Mrs M before she entered into the agreement.
When thinking about putting things right, I might consider that the total deposit should be 
paid to Mrs M. But, as part of a separate complaint she has already been compensated in a 
way Im satisfied covers this difference. It isnt fair and reasonable for her to benefit twice 
from this situation. So Santander do not need to reimburse anything further here.
That being said, I think Mrs M has suffered some distress and inconvenience here. I dont 
think Santanders explanation of what happened was reasonable, and I dont think the 
situation was made clear to Mrs M at the time. I think being told Mrs M wasnt due funds 
back that she was reasonably expecting wouldve been upsetting for her. And I think 
Santander should pay her £100 to reflect this.
I gave both parties four weeks to come back with any further information or evidence for me to consider.
Santander didnt respond. 
Mrs M came back and made some further comments. She said, in summary, that the 
compensation wasnt enough and the overall situation should be taken into account with the 
two cars she acquired. Mrs M said it was fair for £14,157.73 to be returned to her, which was 
the right way of unwinding the agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully thought about what Mrs M said in response to my provisional decision.
I should firstly say that I do understand her frustration and upset with the overall situation. 
But, I need to be clear that the only thing Im considering in this decision is what happened in 
relation to this specific finance agreement and the points Mrs M raised about it.
I appreciate Mrs M believes she should get back £14,157.73 in relation to this complaint. But 
this would represent her being put back in a much better position than if nothing had gone 
wrong. Im still satisfied the issue with the deposit has been put right as part of the redress 
under another decision.
This means, what I need to consider here is what would be fair to reflect the very specific 
issue of Mrs M being given incorrect information about the dealer deposit contribution. To be 
clear to Mrs M  this means Im not looking at compensation for the overall situation,  or 
went wrong with the cars etc.
Having thought about everything again, I still think £100 is reasonable to reflect what 
happened in the specific circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I instruct Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer Finance to pay 
Mrs M £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman