DRN-3004233
The complaint
 Mr Gs complaint about Nationwide Building Society (NBS) relates to an application he 
made for a top up on to his personal loan with NBS, and also the way he was spoken to 
when he called NBS.
What happened
 Mr G was at all material times retired, and his income came from his pension. When he 
applied for a top up on his personal loan he said he had a monthly income of £1,500 which 
NBS asked him to confirm with documentary evidence. At that time Mr G was taking modest 
annual lump sums from his pension fund, which in total was about £140,000, and which he 
paid into a third-party bank account.
Mr G supplied NBS with documents showing details of his uncrystallised personal pension 
plan, but as it didnt show the frequency of payments over the life of the proposed loan term, 
NBS asked for more evidence. Mr G was told in a call that NBS would accept a P60 which 
he duly provided confirming a total annual income of £13,021.47. He also provided a tax 
certificate. Later NBS then told Mr G that the P60 wasnt sufficient for their purposes after all, 
and it required documentary evidence from his pension provider to confirm his income over 
the loan period. Mr G then sent more documentation which included an up to date statement 
of value for his pension fund and details of the drawdowns hed made between July 2016 
and April 2019. 
NBS however didnt think that this documentation demonstrated Mr G could sustainably 
make his repayments for the term of the proposed top up loan and it was at this point that Mr 
G contacted NBS to tell them that he wouldnt be able to supply them with the precise 
evidence it was looking for. The call didnt go well and resulted in an NBS Team Manager 
disconnecting the call.
NBS has accepted in its final response letter to Mr G that it had not been clear about the 
evidence it needed, citing the P60 issue as an example. For that it offered Mr G £50 
compensation. It did not agree that its Team Manager had provided a below standard 
service although it accepted she had terminated the call as it wasnt benefiting either party 
and Mr G was becoming more frustrated.
Mr G was unhappy with NBSs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. An investigator looked into the complaint and his initial 
view was that although there had been poor service, the amount of compensation NBS had 
paid was enough to put things right. Mr G didnt agree, and the complaint was looked at 
again by a different investigator who came to a slightly different view, feeling that the amount 
of compensation was not enough. She suggested the compensation be increased to £150 in 
total. 
Neither NBS or Mr G agreed with that view and have asked for the complaint to be passed to 
an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. 
Im going to focus however on what I think the key issues are as our rules allow me to do this 
and it reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
I issued my Provisional Decision on the 19 July 2021 and both Mr G and NBS have 
responded. NBS accepted the provisional decision but Mr G didnt. Mr G has said that the 
main crux of the issue is that NBS lending criteria is old fashioned. Mr G had further 
comments upon the provisional decision but there wasnt any relevant new information for 
me to take into account. I do not therefore change my provisional decision. 
As both investigators have said, this service cannot tell NBS how to run its business which 
would include what evidence it might require to satisfy itself that a customer meets their 
lending criteria. Neither can we tell businesses what training they should give their staff. We 
dont have the power to make rules for financial businesses, assess or direct that they 
change their policy or procedures, or indeed punish them. We only look at what happened in 
the circumstances of the individual complaint and check that NBS followed its rules and 
procedures and is applying them fairly to all customers. 
So, I find that NBS were entitled to come to the decision not to lend to Mr G  it had its own 
lending criteria and the evidence it required and obtained from Mr G did not satisfy that 
criteria. I dont think NBS acted unfairly in asking for further documentation to evidence that 
Mr Gs income was as he declared it to be. I appreciate Mr G feels this is tantamount to 
accusing him of falsifying his application, but I dont view it that way at all, rather that NBS 
was following its procedures about proof of income. Ultimately Mr G was unable to provide 
evidence from his pension provider that he would earn £1,500 net per month. For this 
reason, I dont think NBS acted unfairly or in a discriminatory fashion, since it requires proof 
of income from all customers.
Where NBS accept their service fell down, was in not being clear about the evidence they 
required. Where this complaint crystallises therefore is whether NBS ought to have told Mr G 
much sooner than it did that he wouldnt qualify for the top up because he couldnt prove his 
income. NBS have made the point that they needed to be sure that it had explored all 
avenues in an attempt to fairly deal with Mr Gs application and I think as a principle that is 
also correct. But given the level of knowledge NBS had on Mr Gs finances, it seems to me 
that it would have been fairly clear that the criteria NBS wanted him to satisfy evidentially, 
simply could not be met, and so there was no good reason why that could not have been 
communicated to him much sooner than it was.
Mr G has complained about the way he was treated when he called NBS. I have listened to 
those calls and I cannot agree with his view. I found the advisors to be polite and 
professional, and with regard to the call which was terminated, Mr G was warned repeatedly 
that if he did not allow the advisor to speak then the call would be terminated. The call 
demonstrates very clearly that Mr G talked over the advisor, no doubt in frustration, but 
nevertheless to such an extent that terminating the call was the only reasonable option open 
to her. Finally, Mr G has raised concerns over the retention of his documents by NBS. NBS view is 
that such documents he submitted cannot be deleted from their system, as he would prefer, 
because that is not in line with their data retention policy which requires them to keep such 
documentation for a period of 6 years. I feel it is important to note its not the role of this 
service to decide whether or not theres been any data breaches - only the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) can do that. If Mr G wishes to complain to the ICO about NBS 
retention of his data in breach of data protection rules, there is more information on how to 
do this on its website.
NBS has accepted that it didnt get things right and because of that it compensated Mr G 
with £50. As Mr G didnt think that was enough to put matters right, Ive given this some 
further thought, and I dont think what NBS paid is fair and reasonable and I think it should 
be increased. When this service considers levels of compensation we take into account a 
variety of factors, including the trouble, upset, distress and inconvenience that may have 
been caused. The awards we make can be categorised within the brackets of modest, 
substantial, severe or extreme, and examples of these can be found on our website. 
There is no set figure or table of awards I can turn to, and given that each case is different, it 
is ultimately an exercise of judgement in looking at all the circumstances of the case and 
deciding what feels fair and reasonable when set against the effect upon the complainant of 
any particular service failure.
Looking at the evidence provided and considering the impact on Mr G, it seems to me that in 
this case an award should fall within the moderate bracket. Mr G was put to a great deal of 
effort in supplying information and has had a fair amount of his time taken up in doing so. I 
do therefore think that £150 is a fair and reasonable award.
Putting things right
 NBS has already paid Mr G £50 to settle this complaint, and as I dont think that is fair and 
reasonable, I require it to pay Mr G a further £100 making a total compensation payment of 
£150.
My final decision
 Nationwide Building Society must pay Mr G £100 compensation in addition to the £50 it has 
already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman