DRN-2958097
The complaint
Mr M complains that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, lent irresponsibly when providing him 
with a loan.  
What happened
In June 2018 NewDay gave Mr M a loan of £7,500 over 60 months. Based on the 
information its provided, the interest rate on the loan was an APR of 21.94%. The total 
charge for the credit was £4,477.20, which meant the total amount repayable by Mr M for the 
£7,500 he was borrowing was £11,977.20. The monthly repayments were £199.62. The 
information NewDay recorded at the time of his application showed he had a net monthly 
income of £1,600. 
In 2020, Mr M complained to NewDay that it had lent irresponsibly to him and had made his 
existing debt problems worse. 
NewDay responded to say that it wasnt upholding Mr Ms complaint about the loan. NewDay 
said when it made its decision to provide the loan it had taken several factors into account, 
including that hed been maintaining his Aqua credit card account well up to that point. It also 
considered his net monthly, and disposable, incomes. It said it had verified these figures with 
credit reference agencies and lent in line with its own lending criteria.
But NewDay did uphold Mr Ms complaint about his credit card, accepting that it shouldnt 
have offered the credit limit increases that it did.  
Unhappy with NewDays response about the loan, Mr M complained to us. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint and recommended that it should be upheld. The investigator 
thought that NewDay shouldnt have offered the loan based on the information available to it 
at the time. They said that, to put things right for Mr M, NewDay should remove all interest 
and charges added to the loan account and, if there was still a balance remaining after doing 
that, implement a suitable repayment plan for Mr M. The investigator said alternatively if the 
balance was cleared, any remaining funds should be paid back to him plus interest at the 
simple rate of 8% a year. They said NewDay should also remove any negative information 
recorded about Mr M in relation to the loan from his credit file.   
NewDay didnt accept the investigators findings for the reasons it had previously explained, 
so the complaint was referred to me to review afresh.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website  including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
Im not going to address the lending decisions regarding the credit card in any detail here  
other than to confirm that NewDays already agreed to put things right for Mr M in relation to 
that. It should do that for him now, if it hasnt already done so. 
Instead, Ive focussed on the aspect of the complaint that remains in dispute  that is, 
NewDays decision to offer the loan. 
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold that aspect of the complaint. Ill explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if NewDay treated Mr M 
fairly and reasonably when it provided him with the loan. These include:
1) Did NewDay complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? 
2) If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? 
3) Ultimately, did NewDay make a fair lending decision?  
4) Did NewDay act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did NewDay complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M would 
be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? 
The rules that NewDay had to follow required it to carry out checks that would enable it to 
reasonably assess whether Mr M could afford to repay the loan being offered. This is often 
referred to as an affordability assessment. 
 
The rules dont set out what specific checks NewDay needed to carry out, but they did set 
out that those checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I 
think what this meant in practice was that the scope and extent of NewDays checks needed 
to reflect the nature of the lending, bearing in mind things such as the amount of credit, the 
interest rate, the duration of the loan, the monthly and total amounts repayable, and any 
indications of customer vulnerability.  
The checks NewDay needed to carry out as part of its affordability assessment had to be 
borrower focussed. What I mean by this is that the checks needed to consider whether 
paying the loan back would cause Mr M any difficulties or have any adverse consequences 
for him. They would also need to take account of factors such as the amount of money being 
lent, the term of the loan and the monthly repayments, total charge for the credit and the 
interest rate being charged. This isnt an exhaustive list. 
And as a result of the above, I think reasonable and proportionate checks needed to be 
more thorough if Mr M was on a low income. This would reflect that it could be more difficult 
for him to meet the credit card repayments on such an income. 
NewDay would also need to be more thorough the higher the amounts he had to repay, as it 
would be more difficult to make higher repayments depending on his income. 
With these principles in mind Ive thought about whether NewDay completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way.
In summary then, the circumstances of the loan application are as follows:
Mr M was applying for the loan which had an APR of 21.94%.
Mr M was recorded by NewDay as having a net monthly income of £1,600.The total cost of the loan was high, particularly when viewed as a percentage of what Mr 
M was borrowing. 
By the time of the loan application, the credit limit on Mr Ms Aqua credit card had risen 
from £300 in January 2017 to £1,300 in May 2017, to £2,300 in September 2017 and to 
£3,050 in January 2018. 
It seems NewDay did request some information regarding the loan. This included asking 
Mr M for details of his monthly income and expenditure. NewDay also obtained information 
from a credit reference agency and assessed how he was managing his Aqua credit card. 
I think Mr Ms management of his credit card ought to have given NewDay cause for some 
concern in the circumstances. I say that because the loan was taken in addition to several 
significant increases to the credit limit of the card in a relatively short space of time. In all, 
Mr Ms credit limit rose in just a few stages from £300 to £3,050 and in only 12 months. That 
itself was a big responsibility for someone in Mr Ms position to take on, let alone with a 
£7,500 loan, taken over 60 months, taken out in addition.
Whats more, it seems a pattern had developed by this time whereby Mr M was maximising 
each new and increased credit limit, meaning the amount he owed on the card had risen 
sharply over a relatively short period of time. Like NewDay, I note that the balance was 
below the credit limit at the time of the loan. But the balance remained significant and it 
seems that Mr M had missed a payment in the recent past. 
So, there was at least some cause for concern that I think should have prompted NewDay to 
look more closely at Mr Ms financial situation before deciding whether to provide the loan. 
NewDay doesnt appear to have carried out borrower focussed checks as Id have expected 
it to, given the situation Mr M was in at the time of this additional borrowing. And, as a result, 
checks should have been carried out to ensure he would be able to sustainably repay the 
loan.   
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
From Mr Ms bank statements, I think additional checks by NewDay would have brought to 
light that his account was consistently overdrawn  often significantly so  in the period 
leading up to the loan application. In fact, his balance virtually wasnt in credit at all in the 
three months before the loan application. 
Even more concerningly, Mr Ms bank statements also show hed taken a loan with another 
lender just weeks before taking the NewDay loan. It seems he used that loan to pay for daily 
living expenses as well as to pay back some of what he owed on his Aqua credit card. These 
were all worrying signs that Mr M was struggling financially.
Did NewDay make a fair lending decision?  
That Mr Ms bank account was regularly overdrawn, and hed recently taken out a loan that 
hes used to pay off existing borrowing, indicates to me that he was struggling financially. 
I also think based on the information NewDay did have about Mr M that it should have 
concluded that it was unlikely hed be able to sustainably afford to make the monthly 
payments for the new loan. And if it had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, for 
example by looking at his bank statements, then the information Ive summarised above 
should have reinforced the conclusion it should have reached on the information it did have; 
that the loan was unlikely to be sustainably affordable for him.So, based on the information NewDay did have about Mr M, Im not satisfied that it could 
have reasonably concluded that hed be able to sustainably afford to make the monthly 
payments for the loan. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above I think that, in the circumstances of Mr Ms case, 
NewDay should have realised it was unlikely hed have been able to repay the loan, and that 
it wasnt appropriate to lend to him.  
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr M to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But hes paid interest and charges on a loan that 
shouldnt have been provided to him. So, I think Mr Ms lost out and that NewDay should put 
things right for him. NewDay should: 
a) Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. Any 
payments made by Mr M should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If 
the payments Mr M has made total more than the amount he was originally lent, then 
any surplus should be treated as overpayments and refunded to him with 8% simple 
annual interest calculated on any overpayments made, from the date they were paid 
by Mr M, to the date the complaint is settled. 
b) If theres still an outstanding balance on the loan, then NewDay should agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr M, bearing in mind the need to treat him positively 
and sympathetically in those discussions, and take account of his current ability to 
repay the loan.
c) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file as a result of the 
loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require NewDay Ltd, trading 
as Aqua, to put things right for Mr M as explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman