DRN-2964400
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Spectrum Payment Services Limited, trading as cardonemoney 
(Spectrum) hasnt reimbursed money she says she has lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide a brief 
overview of some key events here. 
On 18 June 2020 Mrs B made a payment of £600 from her Spectrum account for what she 
later realised was an investment scam. 
Mrs B contacted Spectrum when she realised she had been scammed. Spectrum didnt 
agree to a full refund as Mrs B had authorised the payment herself. Ultimately, it accepted 
due to an administration error there was a delay in reporting the scam to the beneficiary 
bank. It provided a refund for £1.49  which the beneficiary bank confirmed as the amount 
that wouldve been recoverable had it not been for the delay. 
Remaining unhappy, Mrs B referred her complaint about Spectrum to this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary he concluded that he didnt think 
Spectrum should reasonably have been expected to identify the payment as particularly 
unusual or suspicious. Nor could he fairly say Spectrum missed an opportunity to identify the 
payment was being made in relation to a scam  as Mrs B didnt interact with Spectrum staff 
at the time of the payment request. And he was satisfied Spectrum had acted reasonably by 
providing a refund for the amount which it could have recovered.
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. She asked for an ombudsman 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
I know this isnt the outcome Mrs Bs been hoping for. I understand why she has wanted to 
do all she can to try to get her money back. And I have no reason to doubt that Mrs B has, 
as she says, been the victim of a scam. Im really sorry shes lost this money and to hear of 
the impact this has had on her life. Here, however, I need to decide whether it would be fair 
and reasonable for Spectrum, in all the circumstances of this case, to be held responsible for 
this loss. Overall, Im satisfied that it wouldnt, and Ill explain why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have 
taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
Thats not the end of the story though. The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its 
customer if it makes a payment in circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although 
not necessarily proof) for believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to 
misappropriate the funds of its customer (known as the Quincecare duty). And regulated 
firms like Spectrum are required to conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence 
(FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
(Principle 6). 
As a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken 
proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. This is 
particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years  which banks are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
Ive reviewed Mrs Bs statements to decide whether her payment instruction of £600 ought to 
have appeared unusual or uncharacteristic to Spectrum at the time. And in the context of 
Mrs Bs normal spending and account usage, Im satisfied here, that it wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable to say that the amount and type of payment should have appeared sufficiently 
unusual or suspicious to Spectrum such that it ought to have contacted Mrs B about the 
transaction before allowing it through. I say this because Mrs B makes a larger regular 
monthly payment of £1,600. Ive thought about the payment instruction being for a new 
payee. But I dont think this means Spectrum should, in the particular circumstances here, 
have automatically thought it was suspicious and that Mrs B was at risk of financial harm. So 
here, Im satisfied that Spectrum didnt do anything wrong by following the instructions Mrs B 
gave to send the money without questioning her about the payment first. And as there wasnt 
any interaction between Mrs B and Spectrum as part of the payment request, Spectrum 
didnt otherwise unreasonably miss an opportunity to unearth the scam before the payment 
was made.
When Mrs B contacted Spectrum about the scam, it should have acted quickly to try to 
recover Mrs Bs money from the beneficiary account. Generally, Id expect a bank to respond 
immediately to an allegation of this type and to promptly inform the beneficiary bank. I 
understand from Spectrums systems record that Mrs B first contacted it about the scam on 
22 June 2020. I am also aware that Mrs B has said that she realised shed fallen victim to a 
scam on 20 June 2020. She tried to get in touch with Spectrum the same day to report the 
scam, but due to it being a weekend she couldnt notify them. In this case, it appears that 
Spectrum didnt get in touch with the beneficiary bank till around a week later. I think it 
should have done so sooner than this. I know Mrs B is disappointed. Particularly so, as 
Spectrum had told her something different at the time. I understand she feels lied to. I do 
empathise with the situation she found herself in. And of course, I can see why Mrs B 
questions whether more funds could have been recovered had Spectrum acted sooner. I am satisfied from the information Ive seen, however, that the majority of Mrs Bs payment 
to the beneficiary account had already been utilised and removed from the account before 
either of those days  and that ultimately Spectrum would not have been able to recover 
more than the amount it has refunded, even if it had contacted the beneficiary bank 
immediately to report the scam. 
I know this is disappointing to Mrs B and I do empathise with the situation she has found 
herself in. Ultimately, however, it was the fraudster that tricked Mrs B. And for the reasons 
Ive explained above, Im satisfied that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for Spectrum to be 
held liable for her loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman