DRN-3689621
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined their claim for an 
escape of water, and sent emails they couldnt access, in relation to their home buildings 
insurance policy. 
Mr and Mrs R are represented by Mr C in their complaint. I will refer to Mr and Mrs R in my 
decision for ease.
What happened
In September 2021 Mr and Mrs R contacted Aviva to make a claim under their buildings 
insurance. They reported a leak under the tiled kitchen floor, from which they had heard a 
hissing sound. They arranged for a contractor to investigator who identified a leak and 
confirmed how this should be repaired. 
Mr and Mrs R say they werent able to open encrypted email responses from Aviva, so 
werent aware what was going on with their claim. 
In March 2022 Aviva wrote to Mr and Mrs R apologising for the difficulties accessing its 
emails. It explained encryption is necessary to ensure the security of its customers data. It 
says other means of communication was available, and the problem was likely that an older 
email browser was being used to open its messages. 
Aviva wrote again in July 2022. It apologised that Mr and Mrs R were unaware their claim 
had been declined. It says no evidence of a leaking pipe had been provided and confirmed 
its decision to decline the claim was correct. Aviva offered £150 compensation for the 
confusion in communicating its decline decision. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt think this was fair and referred their complaint to our service. Our 
investigator upheld their complaint. She thought Mr and Mrs R had reasonably shown that a 
leak had caused damage in their home. She says Aviva should reconsider the claim as well 
as a claim for trace and access costs in line with its policy terms. Our investigation thought 
an increased compensation payment was appropriate totalling £250. 
Mr and Mrs R accepted this outcome, but Aviva didnt respond. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Let me explain. 
Its the responsibility of the policyholder to prove, at least on the face of it, that they have a
valid claim under one of the insured events (fire, theft, escape of water etc.) covered by
the policy terms and conditions. If they are able to do so, then the insurer must pay the claim
unless it can rely on one of the policy exclusions not to.
I can see from the records Aviva provided that Mr and Mrs R thought there was a leak 
beneath the quarry tiles in their kitchen. The notes say they asked if they could investigate 
this and were told by Avivas agent that they could. The notes say they were asked to come 
back to it if there has been a leak and if damage has been caused to their property. 
Avivas notes show that Mr and Mrs R sent a photo of the floor with some tiles removed and 
a video of the tiles/grouting being lifted. The notes say that the business didnt think there 
was evidence of a water leak or damage in the images or video provided.
In September 2021 Mr and Mrs R arranged a visit from a local contractor to investigate the 
leak. He sent an email a few days later that says:
After my initial visit at your property.. on Monday 27th September 2021 and after consulting 
yourself we have come to the Determination that the old Lead Pipe Water Mains Feed is in 
need of replacing due to an apparant [sic] Leak that is causing the floor to Buckle and Crack.
The Procedure to fix this issue is as follows: We will dig out a channel to the depth of the 
existing pipe and chase it from the Threshold of the main front door to the feed underneath 
the Main Kitchen Sink, this will then be disconnected using a fully Qualified Plumber who will 
then replace the pipe with a new Local Authority Approved Pipe, Reconnect and Check for 
Leaks through Pressure Testing.
Once this has been done we will then Backfill the Channel and Concrete to the top, any 
leftover dig/spoil will be removed by myself this work will come with a 25 year Guarantee 
which will be Signed and Dated by Myself. My Fixed Price Quote to do this job for you which 
includes Labour Materials and Rubbish Removal is £3850.
In a subsequent email the contractor says:
After being contacted by [Mr R] I visited his property to view a potential Water Leak on the 
Mains Pipe, due to the damp area of one particular part of the floor and also due to 
movement on the floors we quickly determined this to be true.
We thoroughly investigated it and excavated a channel from the threshold of the property 
right along to the end of the pipe that is situated in the Kitchen to expose the current old 
Lead pipework, the main cause of the Leak was found to be in the Hallway as shown in the 
Pictures provided you can clearly see the water Leak there pooling in our channel, we found 
further fractures throughout the run culminating in us taking out the whole run of the pipe and 
renewing with new Alcathene Piping according to Building Control Standards, all the work 
has been Pressure tested and I'm pleased to say that matter has now been fully resolved.
Ive read Mr and Mrs Rs policy terms to understand what cover is provided here. The terms, 
under section three, say: 
Cover: Physical damage to the buildings (parts a and b) caused by the following:
12. Freezing of water in fixed water or fixed heating systems and water or oil escaping from 
washing machines, dishwashers, fixed water or fixed heating systems causing physical 
damage to part a) of the buildings (see page 11 for definition).
This section includes up to £5,000 for removing and subsequently repairing/replacing 
elements of part a) of the buildings (see page 11 for definition) where this is a necessary 
step in order to locate the source of the escape of water or oil.
From reading this, the policy covers damage caused by water escaping from fixed water systems. It also provides cover in order to find a leak and to repair any damage caused to 
the building in finding it. 
I note from Avivas final response to Mr and Mrs Rs complaint that it says there is no 
evidence of any damage to the property caused by the leaking pipe. 
However, Mr and Mrs Rs contractor identified that the leak had damaged the flooring, 
causing it to, buckle and crack. The photos provided support this observation. 
From what Ive seen I think Mr and Mrs R have reasonably shown physical damage occurred 
as a result of a leaking pipe. Cover is provided by their policy for this eventuality, as well as 
for the work needed to investigate the leak and make good any damage caused in doing so. 
Having consider all of this I think Aviva should reconsider Mr and Mrs Rs claim in line with 
their policy terms, on the basis that they have demonstrated the leak caused physical 
damage to the building.  
Aviva offered £150 compensation for the confusion that occurred when communicating its 
decline decision. I think this is fair. But there has been a delay in Aviva considering the claim 
because of its initial decline decision. I think Mr and Mrs R did enough to show they suffered 
an insured loss initially given the contractors assessment and photos. This has caused 
frustration and inconvenience for Mr and Mrs R when pursuing their claim. I agree with our 
investigators assessment that a total of £250 compensation is fair to acknowledge this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Aviva Insurance Limited should:
reconsider Mr and Mrs Rs escape of water claim; and 
pay £250 compensation for the frustration and inconvenience caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman