DRN-3215317
The complaint
Mrs W complains that British Gas Insurance Limited provided poor service after she made a 
claim on her HomeCare insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mrs Ws policy covers her electrics. She contacted British Gas as there was no electricity to 
the sockets in her home. This meant Mr and Mrs W had no heating or hot water, and the 
food in their freezer was starting to defrost. 
British Gas arranged for an engineer to attend on the same day Mrs W reported the problem. 
However, the engineers van broke down, so the appointment was rescheduled for the next 
day. Mrs W was told the engineer would arrive by 9am.
The engineer didnt arrive by 9am. Mrs W was ultimately told that her appointment had been 
delayed due to an emergency, but the engineer would arrive by 10pm. British Gas says the 
engineer arrived at Mrs Ws property at 10:34pm, but they were unable to gain access. So, 
the appointment was again rescheduled for the next day.
The engineer arrived the following day and restored power. However, a further appointment 
was needed to locate and repair the fault. British Gas says the full repair couldnt be carried 
out that same day as it was a big job and the engineer had other appointments. British Gas 
contacted Mrs W two days later, and it booked in the job. The repair went ahead ten days 
later, as planned. It took the engineer four and a half hours to locate and repair the fault.
Mrs W complained about the service she had received. British Gas upheld her complaint and 
offered her £200 compensation. British Gas accepted it had failed to attend as scheduled on 
several occasions; Mr and Mrs W had been left without power for three days; Mrs W had to 
make numerous calls to British Gas; and during some phone calls its staff had acted 
unprofessionally.
 
Mrs W declined British Gas £200 compensation offer, and she brought her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators thought £200 compensation was fair. Because Mrs W 
disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms dont require British Gas to attend, or to complete a repair, within a specific 
timescale. But rather, the terms say: 
- Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you 
know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
The terms dont define what a reasonable timescale is. However, one of the purposes of the 
policy is to provide assistance in an emergency. So, because Mrs W was without electricity, 
I would reasonably expect British Gas to send an engineer to her home as a priority.
British Gas had arranged for an engineer to attend on the day the claim was made. As such, 
I accept British Gas was treating Mrs W as a priority in the first instance, and the engineers 
van breaking down was outside of its control. 
However, Im not persuaded British Gas made reasonable attempts to attend the property on 
day two. Mrs W was expecting an engineer by 10:00pm and no-one phoned or text to let her 
know the engineer was on the way, or that the engineer was struggling to gain access to the 
property. Mrs W also disputes an engineer called by at 10:34pm. Mrs W says she and Mr W 
were still up, and their dog would have also alerted them. Therefore, on balance, Im not 
persuaded an engineer attended on day two.
In my view, given the purpose of the policy, being left without a visit for over two days when 
theres no electricity isnt reasonable. British Gas hasnt told us anything that leads me to 
believe the failed visit on day two was beyond its control, and at the very least, it has 
accepted it didnt arrive by the agreed 10pm timeframe on that day.
Mrs W complained that she lost food from her freezer, due to it defrosting. I accept that, had 
British Gas attended sooner, the food may not have been lost. However, Ive accepted the 
failed visit on day one was outside of British Gas control, and had British Gas attended at 
10pm on day two, I understand the food would still have been lost. So, Im not persuaded 
that I can reasonably hold British Gas responsible for the lost food.
As I understand it, the electricity was restored on day three, albeit the fault hadnt yet been 
identified and resolved. I can understand Mrs Ws upset that it took nearly two weeks after 
the power had been restored, for the full repair to be completed. I understand that, in the 
interim, Mr and Mrs W were apprehensive about losing power again; so apart from their 
cooker, they didnt use major appliances, for fear this might cause a problem.
Mrs W has also noted she has mobility issues, and Mr W cares for her. In the circumstances, 
I accept being without electricity for nearly three days, and then living with uncertainty for a 
further two weeks, had an impact on them.
However, Im not persuaded the timescale for the full repair was unreasonable. It follows that 
such an extensive job needed to be booked ahead; and given the power had been restored, 
the emergency had been dealt with. Furthermore, when making the full repair appointment, 
British Gas told Mrs W that if the power went again in the meantime, the matter would be 
treated as urgent. As such, whilst I can understand Mr and Mrs Ws apprehension about 
losing power again, British Gas did reassure Mrs W it would attend if this happened.
Mrs W says, based on what she was told after the power was restored, she was expecting 
an engineer to attend within two days to complete the full repair, not that the full repair 
would simply be booked within two days for a future date. I accept there was some 
miscommunication here, which caused upset.
I understand Mrs W had to use a pay-as-you-go phone to make calls to British Gas, which 
cost £40. British Gas accounted for this cost when making its £200 offer.Having considered Mrs Ws submissions, I accept she was caused inconvenience and upset 
which British Gas is responsible for. To summarise, Im persuaded it was unreasonable the 
initial visit didnt take place on day two; and I accept Mrs W suffered avoidable frustration 
and inconvenience by the various missed timeframes, miscommunication, poor service 
during calls, and by having to chase British Gas. I also accept it cost her £40 chasing 
British Gas. 
However, Im sorry to disappoint Mrs W, but overall, I consider £200 compensation to be a 
fair acknowledgment of the impact the situation had. Im not persuaded I would have 
awarded significantly more, had British Gas not made this offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is British Gas Insurance Limited should pay Mrs W the £200 compensation 
it previously offered, if not yet paid. As outlined above, I consider this offer to be fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman