DRN-4027282
The complaint
Mrs C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money she lost when she was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
In July 2021, Mrs C met a man on a dating website. They started exchanging messages, 
firstly through the dating website and then through an instant messaging service. They 
spoke most days, including text messages and phone calls. And after a few weeks their 
relationship had developed to the point where Mrs C thought they were in a romantic 
relationship. Unfortunately, we now know the man was a scammer.
In August 2021, the man said he had won a valuable work contract abroad. Then, while he 
was away, he told Mrs C he was having trouble accessing his bank account and sent her his 
log-in details and asked if she would log-in to his account to make some transfers for him. 
Mrs C agreed to do this and logged into the mans account, but was only able to make one 
transfer before the account showed it was blocked.
The man said his bank told him it had blocked his account as he had tried to log-in from 
different countries. But he said he needed money urgently for a business license, and 
couldnt complete his work contract without it, so asked Mrs C to send him the money he 
needed. And Mrs C then sent a payment of £7,000 from an account with a different bank, to 
the bank details the man gave her.
Over the following months the man then said he needed more money for a variety of 
reasons, including business insurance and customs tax. And so Mrs C made a number of 
payments from a number of different accounts, including her HSBC account, to a number of 
different bank details the man gave her. The man then also said he had met a gold and 
diamonds trader and was sending some gold and diamonds to Mrs C, but that she would 
need to pay the delivery fee before they would be delivered. Mrs C then made a number of 
further payments for what she thought were delivery fees, certification, customs charges and 
consultant fees. Ive set out all the payments Mrs C made from her HSBC account below:
Date Details Amount
26 August 2021 To individual 1 £8,000
26 August 2021 To individual 2 £8,000
27 August 2021 To individual 2 £4,000
4 September 2021 To individual 3 £8,000
12 September 2021 To individual 3 £2,500
24 September 2021 To individual 4 £9,000
26 September 2021 To individual 4 £1,000
25 October 2021 To individual 4 £5,000
26 October 2021 To individual 4 £7,000
7 December 2021 To fashion retailer 1 £100
8 December 2021 To fashion retailer 1 £8,500
8 December 2021 To fashion retailer 1 £8,900
8 December 2021 To fashion retailer 1 £4,500
14 December 2021 To fashion retailer 1 £9,500
20 December 2021 To fashion retailer 1 £5,500
30 December 2021 To fashion retailer 1 £1,800
6 January 2022 To fashion retailer 1 £2,000
4 February 2022 To fashion retailer 2 £9,000
4 February 2022 To fashion retailer 2 £4,500
3 March 2022 To cryptocurrency exchange £2,500
4 March 2022 To cryptocurrency exchange £2,800
9 March 2022 To cryptocurrency exchange £390
The scam was uncovered when Mrs C was told she needed to pay more money as the gold 
and diamonds werent clean. She became suspicious and contacted the authorities in the 
country the man told her he was staying in, who confirmed the documents he had sent her 
were fake. Mrs C then contacted HSBC to report the fraud and asked it to refund the money 
she had lost.
HSBC investigated but said it felt it had sufficient fraud prevention measures in place. It 
refunded the first 12 payments Mrs C made as a result of the scam, for a total of £70,000. 
But it said she could have taken more responsibility and carried out more checks before 
making the payments. So it didnt agree to refund anything further. Mrs C wasnt satisfied 
with HSBCs response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They didnt think Mrs C had a reasonable 
basis for belief when making the payments. But they also didnt think HSBC had met its 
requirements under the CRM code and thought it should have done more to identify the 
scam and protect Mrs C. So they thought a fair outcome was for HSBC to refund 50% of the 
money Mrs C had lost. But as the £70,000 HSBC had already refunded was more than 50% 
of the money Mrs C had lost, they didnt think it needed to do anything further. Mrs C 
disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that the £70,000 HSBC has already refunded is 
more than I would ask it to do in these circumstances. So dont think it would be fair to ask it 
to do anything further. Ill explain why below.
Are the payments covered by the CRM code?
Ive first considered whether the CRM code applies to all the payments Mrs C made as a 
result of this scam.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM code) is a 
voluntary code HSBC has signed up to. It sets out a number of circumstances in which firms 
are required to reimburse customers who have been the victims of certain types of scam. 
But it only covers payments where a customer paid funds to another person for what they 
thought were legitimate purposes, but which were in fact fraudulent.
In this case the first 19 payments Mrs C made, between 26 August 2021 and 4 February 
2022, were transferred directly from Mrs Cs HSBC account to bank details for other people she was given by the scammer. And so I think these payments are covered by the CRM 
code.
But the last three payments Mrs C made, between 3 March 2022 and 9 March 2022, were 
made to a cryptocurrency exchange account in her own name. I recognise that she only did 
this under the direction of the scammer. But, as these payments went to an account in her 
own name, the way the CRM code is written means that I dont think it applies to these three 
payments.
The payments covered by the CRM code
As I explained above, the first 19 payments Mrs C made are covered by the CRM code. And 
this code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim of authorised 
push payment scams, like the one Mrs C fell victim to, in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish that one of those exceptions to 
reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
HSBC has argued that Mrs C could have taken more responsibility and conducted more 
checks before making the payments, and that she didnt take reasonable steps to check the 
payments were genuine. And while I appreciate that this was a sophisticated scam, where 
the scammer built up trust with Mrs C for more than a month before asking for money and 
sent her a number of photos and other documents to convince her it was genuine, there 
were also a number of things about what was happening that I think should have caused her 
significant concern.
Ive seen copies of the text messages between Mrs C and the scammer, and they are 
messaging very frequently and the scammer manipulates Mrs C into thinking they are in a 
romantic relationship. But they had never met in person and only had one very brief video 
call in just over a month before the scammer started asking for money. And I think being 
asked to send thousands of pounds to someone she had never met in person or seen face-
to-face should have caused Mrs C significant concern.
The scammer also asked Mrs C to lie to her banks about the reason for making the 
payments and about who they were going to. And I think being asked to lie to her banks 
should also have caused Mrs C significant concern.
Mrs C was also initially asked to send money to personal accounts for individuals she 
doesnt know. But she doesnt appear to have significantly questioned who these people are 
or how they are connected to the scammer. And the accounts she was sending money to 
were also in the UK, but she doesnt appear to have significantly questioned how the 
scammer would be able to get money from these people.
I also think some of the things she was told should have caused Mrs C some concern too. I 
think it should have been suspicious that a bank would block all access to someones 
account for a significant period of time just because they had logged in to their online banking from different locations. And I think it should have been suspicious that the 
scammer was saying he was a very successful businessman, but also didnt have the 
correct license or insurance to operate in the country he was trying to work in.
Mrs C has also said she was initially reluctant to make the payment, so it appears she did 
have some concerns. And I dont think what she was told should have been enough to 
overcome those concerns.
So I think HSBC has established that Mrs C made the first payment without a reasonable 
basis for belief that it was genuine. And I dont think the circumstances for the later 
payments were less suspicious than for the first, particularly as Mrs C was later asked to 
send money to UK fashion retailers and I think the returns she was told she would receive on 
the gold and diamonds were too good to be true. So I dont think Mrs C had a reasonable 
basis for belief when making any of the payments, and so HSBC doesnt have to refund all 
of the money she lost as a result of the scam.
Even though I dont think she had a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments, 
Mrs C may still be entitled to a refund of some of the money she lost if HSBC didnt meet its 
requirements under the CRM code  one of which is to provide effective warnings when it 
identifies a scam risk.
As the first payment Mrs C made from her HSBC account was for what I consider to be a 
significant amount of money, I think HSBC should have identified a scam risk, and so should 
have provided her with an effective warning before she made the payment.
HSBC has sent us copies of a number of different warnings that were shown to Mrs C when 
she made the payments throughout the scam. But even if none of these warnings were 
effective and HSBC didnt meet its requirements under the CRM code, Mrs C would then 
only be entitled to a refund of 50% of the money she lost. And, by refunding £70,000, HSBC 
has already refunded more than this. So I dont think it would be fair to require HSBC to 
refund more than it has done already.
The payments not covered by the CRM code
As I explained above, the last three payments Mrs C made arent covered by the CRM code. 
And Mrs C accepts she made these payments herself using her mobile banking. So while I 
recognise that she didnt intend for the money to ultimately go to scammers, she did 
authorise these payments. And so the starting position is that she is liable for the payments 
and HSBC doesnt have to refund them.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think HSBC 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So Ive also considered whether HSBC should have identified that Mrs C was potentially at 
risk of fraud as a result of these payments, or otherwise done more to protect her.
HSBC has said it did identify that Mrs C was potentially at risk of fraud and intervened to 
carry out further checks with her before allowing several of the payments to go through, first 
speaking to her on 25 October 2021. Its sent us recordings of the calls it had with her, so 
Ive listened to these to decide whether I think it did enough to protect Mrs C.
Its not for our service to dictate the checks HSBC should do or the questions it should ask. 
But HSBC should take steps designed to protect its customers from the risk of financial 
harm. And, in these circumstances and due to the size and number of the payments, I think 
it would be reasonable to expect those checks to include questions about the purpose of the 
payments, and then probing follow-up questions to fully understand any potential risks.
The call recordings HSBC has sent us show that, when it did ask Mrs C what the payments 
were for, she gave incorrect information and said they were to pay for materials for home 
improvement works she was having done at her properties. So I appreciate that Mrs C 
mislead HSBC, and that this appears to have been done deliberately in an effort to make 
sure it allowed the payments to go through.
But at the point HSBC was first asking these questions, Mrs C had sent a number of 
payments to four different new payees within a month, none of whom she had ever sent 
money to before. The payments had all gone to personal accounts, which doesnt match 
what wed expect to see with payments for materials or home improvements. Mrs C had tried 
to send money to the same person but with different account details, and couldnt explain 
why this was. And Mrs Cs explanations of exactly what work she was having done, how 
much it would cost and where she found the people doing the work werent very detailed or 
didnt match what wed expect for building or design work. So I think HSBC should still have 
had significant concerns after discussing these payments with Mrs C, and should have 
asked further questions or asked to see some evidence of the work being done before 
allowing the payments to go through.
I think its unlikely Mrs C would have been able to provide plausible or convincing answers to 
further questions, or been able to provide evidence of any of the work being done. So if 
HSBC had carried out further checks in its call with Mrs C of 25 October 2021 before 
allowing the payment to go through, as I think it should have, I think the scam would have 
been uncovered and Mrs C wouldnt have sent any further money to the scammer. And so I 
dont think she would have lost any of the money she sent to the scammer from 25 October 
2021 onwards, including the final three payments that were sent to the cryptocurrency 
exchange.
Ive also thought about whether it would be fair for Mrs C to bear some responsibility for the 
loss she suffered. And, for similar reasons to the ones I explained above for why I dont think 
she had a reasonable basis for belief, I think it would be fair for her to do so. I think there 
were a number of things about what was happening and what she was being told that should 
have caused her significant concern, including being asked to lie to her banks, the unrealistic 
returns she was told she would receive on delivery of the gold and diamonds and being 
asked to send money to a cryptocurrency exchange to make payments for a delivery.
So I think it would be fair for Mrs C and HSBC to share responsibility for the loss she 
suffered from the last three payments she made. And so I think it would be fair for HSBC to 
refund 50% of these payments to Mrs C.Overall then, I think HSBC should refund 50% of the payments covered by the CRM code as 
I dont think Mrs C had a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments, but HSBC 
also failed to meet its requirements under the code. And I think HSBC should refund 50% of 
the payments that arent covered by the CRM code as I think it should have done more to 
protect Mrs C, but that it would be fair for her to bear some responsibility too.
But HSBC has already refunded £70,000 of the money she lost to Mrs C. And this is more 
than the 50% refund I think would be fair. And so I dont think it would be fair to require 
HSBC to refund anything further.
Recovery
We expect businesses to take reasonable steps to help customers recover any money they 
have lost as a result of a scam. So Ive also considered whether HSBC did enough to try to 
recover the money Mrs C lost. But HSBC has sent us evidence that it contacted the banks 
the payments were sent to within a reasonable amount of time, to ask if the money could be 
returned. Those banks replied to say there were no funds left to return. And, as all of the 
payments had been made several weeks or months before the scam was reported, I think 
its unlikely anything HSBC could reasonably have been expected to do would have been 
able to recover the money Mrs C lost.
I sympathise with the position Mrs C has found herself in. She has been the victim of a cruel 
scam and I appreciate how she feels about this case and that my decision will come as a 
disappointment to her. But, for the reasons Ive set out above, I think the refund HSBC has 
already paid is fair and I dont think it would be fair to require it to do anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman