DRN-2093716
The complaint
Miss B complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender, lent her money he 
couldnt afford to pay back
What happened
Mr Lender gave Miss B five loans between September 2013 and April 2019. Miss B says 
that Mr Lender didnt do enough checks to see whether she could afford the loans. She says 
he was reliant on other short term borrowing at the time.
Mr Lender says that before the loans were provided it carried out through affordability and 
credit checks. It verified Miss Bs employment and says based on the information it gathered 
the lending was affordable. Mr Lender says it asked what the loans were for and Miss B 
gave reasons that didnt include repaying other debts.
Our adjudicator didnt think that he had seen enough to say that loans 1,2,4 and 5 shouldnt 
have been provided. However, he thought that Miss Bs borrowing pattern was a cause for 
concern by loan 3 and this loan shouldnt have been provided. 
Mr Lender didnt accept the adjudicators view and in summary said that the loan was not a 
significance proportion of Miss Bs income and she was able to repay it without difficulty. 
Miss Bs requests to defer repayments were in line with guidance applicable at the time. 
Miss B didnt ask for another loan for a significant period after loan 3 was repaid suggesting 
that she was using it for short term purposes.
Miss B asked me to review whether loan 5 was affordable as she said she went straight 
back for this loan because her finances were under pressure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss B could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Miss B could sustainably repay her loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations, define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt think he had enough evidence to say that loans 1,2,4 and 5 should not 
have been provided. Miss B has disagreed with what the adjudicator has said about loan 5, 
so I dont think I need to say any more about loans 1,2 and 4 as they dont appear to be in 
dispute.
At the point of taking out loan 3 Miss B had been borrowing from Mr Lender for around 6 
months and wasnt sustainably making any inroads into the amount she had borrowed. Miss 
B took over 4 months to repay loan 2. She asked for loan 3 only 8 days later for the same 
amount. This would suggest that Miss B couldnt afford to pay back what she had borrowed 
without borrowing again. Although Miss Bs deferrals were within the guidelines applicable at 
the time, at the point of loan 3, I agree with the adjudicator that Miss Bs borrowing pattern 
was a cause for concern and suggested she couldnt sustainably afford to borrow again. So, 
I dont think Mr Lender shouldve given Miss B loan 3.  
There was a significant gap between Miss B paying off loan 3 and taking out loan 4 which 
was long enough for Mr Lender to conclude that any difficulty may have passed. I agree with 
the adjudicator that loan 4 is the start of a new chain of lending. Miss B borrowed £200 on 10 
January 2019 repayable over three instalments. She told Mr Lender her income was £2081, 
and her outgoings were £1220. The highest repayment of £133.86 seemed easily affordable. 
Miss B repaid all of her instalments in full and on time. She didnt apply to defer these 
repayments and so there was nothing to suggest she had any difficulty paying back this 
loan. Because of this repayment history I dont think it was wrong of Mr Lender to give Miss 
B loan 5.
I can appreciate that Miss B applied for this loan very shortly after repaying loan 4. But this 
was a new chain of lending after a significant break and so was only the second loan. There 
was nothing of concern in Miss Bs repayment of the first loan. The fact that she had applied 
for another loan so soon, I dont think it is enough by itself, to say that Mr Lender was wrong to give her this loan. I dont doubt that Miss B was in difficulty but I dont think it would be 
reasonable for Mr Lender to have done more checks before this loan given what it knew 
about Miss B. 
Putting things right
I agree with the adjudicator that Mr Lender shouldnt have given Miss B loan 3. Miss B has 
had the benefit of that money, so I think it is only right that she pays it back. Mr Lender has 
already agreed to write off the balance outstanding on loan 5 and remove any adverse 
information and I think that this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. In addition it 
should do the following:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Miss B towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 3.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss B which 
were considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Miss B originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay Miss B the total of A and B.
D. Any adverse information on Miss Bs credit file about loan 3 should be removed.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr 
Lender should put things right as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept or reject my decision before 7 
December 2020.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman