DRN-4042199
The complaint
Mr B complains that Marks &Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) have unfairly refused to 
refund a payment of £4,251.52 made from his credit card in July 2017 that he says he lost as 
part of an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will provide a brief summary and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Mr B says he fell victim to an investment scam orchestrated by RTC Finance (which was 
operating as a clone of a legitimate company) after he found an advert on YouTube saying 
he could make money every day by trading currency. He made a payment from his M&S 
credit card of £4,251.52 (which attracted £127.12 in associated foreign transaction fees) to 
the scammer in July 2017. He realised he had been scammed after the trader told him he 
had lost of all of his money because of Donald Trump and received no further explanation. 
M&S refused to refund the money Mr B had lost. It said he had authorised the transaction, 
and that it wouldnt be covered by section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75 
claim)
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She disagreed that Mr B would have no valid section 
75 claim as his claim satisfied all the criteria for a claim of misrepresentation. M&S 
disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
to uphold it, as I dont consider M&S have handled Mr Bs section 75 claim fairly. 
In order for a section 75 claim to succeed, there must be:
1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction; 
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item which the supplier has attached a 
cash price below £100 or in excess of £30,000.
Debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement and a transaction financed by the agreement
Mr Bs statements show that he made a payment directly to Rtcfinance.com, which was the 
fraudulent clone of a legitimate broker. M&S have not provided any evidence to suggest that 
he sent this to any other third party or intermediary before it reached the scammer either. As 
such, Im satisfied there is nothing here that breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain 
between Mr B (the debtor), M&S (the creditor) and RTC (the supplier). 
Given Mr B had exchanged money in return for certain promises  Im satisfied there was 
also a transaction (which Ill refer to as the deposit-transaction) as defined by section 75. If 
Mr B hadnt used his credit card, he wouldve had to find the cash from his own resources to 
fund the payment and obtain the funds paid into his investment account. Therefore, Im 
satisfied the deposit transactions were financed by the agreement.
The claim must also relate to the transaction. So, its important to consider what Mr Bs claim 
is here. Its evident from his testimony that he feels he was tricked into depositing the funds 
with the merchant for the dual purpose of:
a) stealing the money; and
b) encouraging Mr B to deposit larger amounts. 
Mr B does not believe that the merchant was operating legitimately and believes he was 
misled into thinking it was.
This claim  that Mr B was misled into depositing funds is clearly a claim in relation to the 
deposit-transaction. The claim must also be one for misrepresentation or breach of contract.  
In this case, if Mr B was told by the merchant matters that were factually untrue in order to 
trick him into entering into the deposit-transaction, his claim would be for misrepresentation. 
Or, if the merchant made binding promises to him as part of that transaction and went on to 
breach these that would make his claim one for breach of contract.  
Finally, the claim mustnt relate to a single item to which the seller has attached a cash price 
of less than £100 or more than £30,000. Here, the cash price of the deposit-transaction is 
the value of each deposit-transaction. It is both the consideration and subject matter of the 
contract. 
When funds are deposited onto a trading account, this isnt necessarily just a transfer of 
money between accounts, it may also have been paid in return for something. In this case 
the merchant has made promises in exchange for the deposit (such as being able to double 
Mr Bs money in a matter of weeks and telling him they will absorb any losses). And it is 
important to note that section 75 doesnt use the term purchase of goods or services nor is 
there anything within the Act that would exclude the present type of transaction as M&S has 
claimed.  
So, for the reasons set out above, Im satisfied that section 75 does apply to the credit card 
deposit-transaction Mr B has made. Ive therefore considered whether Mr B has a valid claim 
for misrepresentation or breach of contract.
Misrepresentation
I consider that Mr B has made a claim of misrepresentation by the merchant  that claim 
being that it represented to him it was a legitimate enterprise when this was not the case.
For a claim of misrepresentation to be successful its necessary to show not just a false 
statement of fact but also that the statement induced Mr B into entering into an agreement. (i) A false statement of fact
Im satisfied that the merchant was not likely to be operating a legitimate enterprise, i.e. one 
in which Mr B could have ever received back more money than he deposited. An FCA 
warning has also been published explaining that RTC Finance is a clone of Spot Capital 
Markets and was being operated by fraudsters. And I can see from the evidence Mr B has 
provided that he was indeed corresponding with the fraudulent clone. It therefore follows that 
any statements made by the merchant stating that they were legitimate and able to trade 
Mr Bs money to make a profit are likely to be a misrepresentation.
So, the mere suggestion that Mr B could make money from the platform is likely to suffice as 
entailing, by necessary implication, a statement of fact by the merchant that it operated a 
legitimate business, i.e. a legitimate trading platform on which investors could profitably 
trade. Mr B says he was told that RTC could double his money within a matter of weeks. So, 
Im satisfied that, based on his account of events and the nature of the situation, the 
merchant did claim that he could have made money from the trading platform.
(ii) That induced him into entering the agreement
If Mr B had known that the trading platform he was using was a clone of a legitimate 
investment company and was essentially a scam designed to steal the investors money, 
theres little doubt that he would not have proceeded with his investment with RTC Finance. 
Im satisfied based on the evidence, such as the FCA warning, that RTC was not operating a 
legitimate enterprise. This means that I think it has made misrepresentations to Mr B  
specifically that the merchant was running a genuine enterprise through which he could ever 
have got back more than his deposits from the platform. Im also satisfied that if Mr B had 
known this, he wouldnt have deposited any money, meaning he was therefore induced into 
the contract on the basis of these misrepresentations.
Consequential losses
Ive also considered whether Mr B has a valid claim against M&S for the loss he incurred 
through the international transaction fees that were charged as a result of the deposit 
transaction. Where a person has been fraudulently induced to enter into a transaction 
through misrepresentation, they are entitled to recover from the wrongdoer all the damage 
directly flowing from that transaction (so long as it was the direct consequence of said 
transaction).
In Mr Bs case, if the deposit transaction had not occurred, the transaction fee would not 
have occurred. The transaction fee can therefore be considered a direct consequence of the 
deposit transaction. And given the payment was made outside of the UK, its foreseeable 
that a bank used by Mr B to make the deposit would attach a fee for converting the payment. 
So, Im satisfied Mr Bs payment of the transaction fee was a consequential loss in 
misrepresentation.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr B has a claim for misrepresentation on the grounds that the 
merchant made a series of misrepresentations, namely that it was operating a legitimate 
enterprise and that Mr B could access his money freely and earn a profit from his deposit 
transaction. Im also satisfied the deposit transaction fees meet the test for consequential 
loss in misrepresentation, as it wouldnt have been incurred but for the deposit transaction. 
It was also a direct and foreseeable loss as a result of the deposit transaction. 
Given that Mr B has a claim for misrepresentation, I dont consider it necessary to determine 
whether he would also have a claim for breach of contract (given the former also tends to provide the highest sum of redress with consequential losses). It follows that I uphold his 
complaint and direct M&S to refund the transaction he made from his credit card. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct Marks & Spencer Financial 
Services Plc to refund Mr Bs deposit transaction and associated transactions fees, plus 
interest. It should:
Refund the deposit-transaction of £4,251.52
Refund the transaction fees 
Pay 8% interest on those sums from the date they were paid by Mr B to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman