DRN-3459417
Complaint
Mr W has complained about a loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) 
provided to him. He says the loans was unaffordable.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Mr W with a loan for £3,000.00 in February 2020. This loan had an 
APR of 127.1% and a term of 36 months. This mean that the total amount to be repaid of 
£8,566.20, including interest of £5,566.20, was due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of 
just under £238. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ws complaint and he thought Everyday Loans 
shouldnt have provided Mr W with his loan. So he thought that Mr Ws complaint should be 
upheld. 
Everyday Loans disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ws complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr W could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check 
before this loan was provided. The results of which showed that Mr W was already 
significantly indebted. Furthermore, while theres some suggestion the purpose of this loan 
might have been debt consolidation, given the small amount being consolidated and the 
additional period Mr W was going to be indebted for, its unclear to me how this loan was 
going to materially improve Mr Ws financial position. 
I say this while especially mindful that a significant portion of Mr Ws income was going to be 
taken up by repayment to credit and he would still be overdrawn and so likely to have to 
borrow further to make his payments. 
So Im persuaded by what Mr W has said about already being in a difficult financial position 
at the time. And while its possible Mr Ws indebtedness reflected his choices rather than 
financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, 
in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from Everyday Loans, Ive been 
persuaded to accept Mr Ws version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Ws existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not 
have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr W. 
As Everyday Loans provided Mr W with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed 
to act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
Mr W ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt have been provided 
with. So Im satisfied that Mr W lost out because of what Everyday Loans did wrong and that 
it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr W
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Mr W by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to this loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr W made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the 
£3,000.00 originally lent. If Mr W has already repaid more than £3,000.00 then 
Everyday Loans should treat any extra as overpayments. And any overpayments 
should be refunded to Mr W;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments, if there are any, 
from the date they were made by Mr W to the date of settlement;
if after all adjustments have been made, no outstanding balance remains, Everyday 
Loans should remove all adverse information it recorded on Mr Ws credit file as a 
result of this loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman