DRN-3045331
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) was unfair to offer a 
mortgage to them in 2011, but not offer a mortgage to potential purchasers when they 
wanted to sell their property.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with Halifax in 2011. They had problems when they tried 
to sell their property in 2019. They say that some lenders, including Halifax, declined to lend 
to potential purchasers because the property is near a mine. They had to accept a lower 
cash offer and say they suffered a financial loss of about £45,000. Mr B says they wouldnt 
have bought the property if theyd known theyd have a problem when they came to sell it.
Our investigator said Halifax and its advisers had reviewed reports about risks related to the 
mine before making a decision to lend in 2011. Mr and Mrs B were aware of the risks when 
they decided to go ahead with their purchase.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. They said potential purchasers had been refused lending, 
including by Halifax, despite the relevant authority saying there isnt a problem with the 
property.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Mr and Mrs B were aware when they bought the property that it was near a mine, they 
say searches suggested there was a low risk of subsidence. Mr B says recent searches 
show theres been no change since they bought the property. 
Halifax offered Mr and Mrs B a mortgage in 2011. Mr B says it didnt offer a mortgage to their 
potential purchasers. He says it was wrong for Halifax to decline to lend to potential 
purchasers for reasons he says are unfair. 
I cant look into and I dont make findings here about any mortgage applications made by 
third parties to Halifax or to other lenders. In effect, Mr and Mrs B are complaining that it was 
unfair for Halifax to change its lending policy after lending to them. They say this caused 
them loss as it made their property more difficult to sell and they had to accept a lower offer.
Its not clear that the reason Halifax didnt offer to lend to Mr and Mrs Bs potential 
purchasers was due to a change in its lending criteria, or if the surveyors or solicitors 
appointed in 2019 and 2020 took a different view of the risks to those in 2011 (or another 
reason not related to the property). But, either way, Halifax is entitled to change its lending 
criteria and to rely on advice from valuers and solicitors. There was no guarantee given by 
Halifax in 2011 that it wouldnt change its lending criteria, or that it would offer a mortgage to 
a potential purchaser of Mr and Mrs Bs property. 
My view of this complaint might be different if I thought that Halifax made an error or treated 
Mr and Mrs B unfairly when it offered to lend in 2011 despite the property being near a mine. 
But I dont think it did.
Before offering to lend in 2011, Halifax instructed a valuation, which was satisfactory. Its 
valuer reviewed the reports related to the property and the mine and confirmed its valuation. 
The valuer was a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, so was suitably 
qualified. 
Based on the information Halifax received from the valuer and its solicitor, Halifax assessed 
the property as suitable security for the loan. I dont think this was unreasonable or unfair. 
Halifax was entitled to rely on the opinion of the valuer and the solicitor. 
Im very sorry for the position Mr and Mrs B found themselves in. As they say, the value of 
their property was affected by factors outside of their control. I dont think though that Halifax 
made an error or treated them unfairly. So I dont think its fair and reasonable to require it to 
pay them compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman