DRN-3444231
The complaint
Mr R complained that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
irresponsibly provided him with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
118 118 Money provided Mr R with a loan as follows:
Date 
takenLoan 
amountTerm Monthly 
repayme
ntLoan 
status
21/05/2021 £4,000.00 36 months £180.80 Still active
Mr R said, through a representative, that 118 118 Money failed to conduct proportionate 
checks and that it could have done more prior to providing this loan to Mr R. He said he was 
paying other lenders at the time so this loan wasnt affordable.
When Mr R complained to 118 118 Money it didnt uphold his complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Rs complaint. She thought that 118 118 Money 
shouldve taken steps to build a more detailed picture of Mr Rs financial situation. But, as 
she hadnt seen anything to show that a proportionate check wouldve showed it was unfair 
to lend, she didnt have enough information to be able to uphold the complaint.
We asked Mr R to send us his bank statements. He hasnt sent us any further 
information and his representative has asked for an ombudsman to review this 
complaint. 
The deadline for sending more information has passed so Mr Rs complaint comes to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
There are some general principles and questions I need to think about when deciding 
whether to uphold this complaint. Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a 
borrower can afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to 
satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without 
needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. And even if a proportionate check 
was done and a loan looked affordable, a lender should still think about whether theres any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to make any repayments to credit from a lower level of 
income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could 
be more difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular 
level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted 
(reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
greater and the customer is required to make repayments for an 
extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether 118 118 Money did what 
it needed to before agreeing to lend to Mr R.
118 118 Money gathered some information from Mr R about his income and expenses 
before it agreed the loan. It completed income verification with a third party and checked 
Mr Rs credit file to understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. 
118 118 Money concluded that its loan was affordable for Mr R  and I can see that the 
figures it relied on suggested he should have some surplus cash to pay this loan. 
But I dont think 118 118 Money thought carefully enough about what the information it had 
gathered potentially revealed about Mr Rs overall financial situation. I say this because this 
was a substantial loan that Mr R was signing up to pay for the next 3 years - and he had 
quite recently taken out a couple of new credit cards. So it looked like he was increasing his 
reliance on expensive credit although it wasnt clear why when the figures suggested he had 
ample disposable income. 118 118 Money also saw that there was some adverse 
information shown on the credit checks it obtained suggesting hed had money problems 
previously.  
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. But whilst the 
information 118 118 Money saw wasnt enough in my view to warrant refusing his loan application, I think 118 118 Money shouldve been alerted to the need for more in-depth 
checking to ensure it had a proper understanding of Mr Rs finances.   
Im not satisfied that the checks 118 118 Money went far enough. To my mind, 118 118 
Moneys checks should have included a full review of Mr Rs financial circumstances and, in 
particular, further verification of his expenditure so it could ensure that the loan repayments 
were likely to be affordable over the term of the loan. But although I dont think the checks 
118 118 Money did before agreeing the loan were sufficient, thats not enough for me to be 
able to uphold Mr Rs complaint. I also need to be able to say that if 118 118 Money had 
done what I consider to be proportionate checks, these would have shown 118 118 Money 
that Mr R couldnt sustainably afford the repayments.
I havent however been provided with any further information to enable me to say what 118 
118 Money would have most likely seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. So, 
because of this, I am unable to safely conclude that Mr R was given a loan that was 
unaffordable for him and this is why Im not upholding his complaint. I appreciate this is a 
disappointing outcome for Mr R but hope setting out the reasons as Ive done will help 
explain how Ive reached my conclusions. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman