DRN-3369545
The complaint
Mr L complains Royal & Sun Alliance Limited (RSA) wrongly declined to pay the full amount 
of his legal aid contribution relating to proceedings brought against him. 
Where I refer to RSA this includes their agents and claims handlers acting on their behalf.
What happened
Mr L had an LEI policy with RSA. He was arrested in November 2016 and RSAs panel 
solicitors were appointed to represent him in the legal proceedings that followed. He got 
legal aid but had to pay around £8,415 towards the legal costs under an Income Contribution 
Order (ICO). RSA agreed to pay that amount.
Several trials took place and Mr L was convicted on some of the charges against him. 
Afterwards two Capital Contribution Orders (CCOs) were made and Mr L was required to 
make a total Legal Aid Contribution (LAC) of around £78,000, including the amount RSA had 
already covered. Mr L alleged the solicitors negligently failed to apply for an apportionment 
order to reduce his legal aid bill. Mr L thinks he would only have had to pay a proportion of 
the LAC if they had. He thought RSA should pay the full amount of the LAC under the LEI 
policy. 
RSA refused to pay on grounds the CCOs were made after his conviction and sentencing, 
and the LEI policy didnt cover post-conviction costs.
Our investigator considered Mr Ls complaint about RSAs decision. She thought the policy 
clearly excluded costs Mr L was required to pay following his conviction and didnt uphold his 
complaint. Mr L didnt agree. He let us know hed agreed a settlement with the solicitors 
whod paid part of what he considered he was owed but said RSA should pay the balance. 
Our investigator disagreed. Since his complaint wasnt resolved, its been passed to me for a 
final decision. I note Mr L has since been notified his LAC has increased. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point for considering Mr Ls complaint about RSA is the wording of his LEI 
policy.
RSA accepted Mr Ls claim for cover under the section of the policy entitled Criminal 
Prosecution Defence. In doing so they will have accepted there were reasonable prospects 
of successfully defending the prosecution. But that didnt mean RSA would cover all of his 
costs. The policy covered the professional fees Mr L incurred in defending the criminal legal 
proceedings brought against him, subject to the terms and conditions of the policy and any 
exclusions. 
For Crown Court proceedings, the cover provided was limited to:
A sum equal to any assessed income based contribution payable by [Mr L] towards 
Professional Fees incurred under the Crown Court Means Testing scheme.
It excluded:
Professional fees required to be paid by [Mr L] in excess of the pre-conviction assessed 
income based contribution under the Crown Court Means Testing scheme following 
conviction.
It was a condition of cover that:
 Where a legal aidscheme is available to [Mr L] it must be utilised. Where such assistance 
is granted, professional fees will be limited to a sum equal to any pre-verdict contribution 
payable by [Mr L]. 
And the policy excluded:
Any legal aid contribution or professional fees payable post-verdict.
I think the terms of the policy were clear, fair and not misleading - as Id expect them to be in 
line with Financial Conduct Authority principles - that Mr L had to use legal aid if it was 
available; the policy only covered him for income-based contributions it was assessed he 
must pay before conviction; and he wasnt covered for any sums he became liable to pay 
over and above that contribution following conviction.
In line with the policy terms, RSA paid Mr Ls contribution of around £8,415 under the ICO, 
which was made before his conviction. But the CCOs were made afterwards. I think its clear 
the amount of Mr Ls overall LAC contribution increased as a result of the CCOs. The LAC 
distinguishes the ICO and CCO contributions. I acknowledge Mr L may have incurred the 
costs reflected in the CCOs before his conviction. But they were assessed based on capital, 
not income, and he didnt become liable to pay them until after his conviction. So, they 
werent covered under the policy.
I dont think RSAs been unfair to Mr L. Theyve provided the cover he was entitled to under 
the policy which was clearly set out as Ive explained. I can see why RSA, in the same way 
as other insurers, wouldnt be prepared to offer cover for costs resulting from the guilty 
verdict made against Mr L. 
I acknowledge Mr L feels the solicitors could have reduced the amount if theyd applied for 
an apportionment order and that they were RSA panel solicitors. But Im satisfied RSA 
reasonably considered they had the appropriate expertise to handle Mr Ls defence, and it 
was reasonable for RSA to appoint them. But they were acting on Mr Ls behalf. And RSA 
arent responsible for their actions. RSA are not the solicitors indemnity insurers  they 
provide Mr L with cover for legal expenses for, amongst other things, claims against him. I 
understand Mr Ls reached a settlement with the solicitors to reimburse some of the LAC 
contribution. But I dont agree RSA should pay the balance, for the reasons Ive explained. 
Bearing the above in mind, whilst I understand Mr L will be disappointed, I dont uphold his 
complaint against RSA.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman