DRN-2942175
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about his mortgage with The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Britannia. 
He considers that Britannia has been negligent toward him as it hasnt taken action to 
protect him from unnecessary hardship caused due to his ex-partner being unable to afford 
the mortgage and it falling into arrears.
What happened
Mr H and his ex-partner took out a joint mortgage in 2012. 
In 2014 the relationship broke down and Mr Hs ex-partner and their children remained in the 
property. She appears to have taken on the main responsibility for paying the mortgage. At 
times the mortgage has fallen into arrears, but on each occasion, it has been brought back 
up to date. The amount of arrears has never been as much as the equivalent of three 
contractual monthly payments. At the time the complaint was referred to this service, the 
mortgage was not in arrears. 
Mr H complained to Britannia in early 2020 following being advised that the mortgage had 
fallen into arrears. Essentially, Mr H was unhappy that the mortgage had been allowed to 
continue and fall into arrears, with the consequential effect on him. As such, he considers 
that Britannia should force the sale of the property, which he has already given it his consent 
for.
Britannia responded to Mr Hs complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It apologised if he didnt think 
it had handled the information hed provided appropriately, but it wasnt able to get involved 
with relationship disputes. It also highlighted that any assistance would require the consent 
of both parties to the mortgage. While Mr H had said the mortgage was unaffordable, it 
would need to discuss this with the other borrower and have her complete a form for 
affordability to be determined. Britannia also confirmed that when an account goes more 
than £25 into arrears, it will inform the borrowers and have discussions about how the 
account can be brought up to date and managed. This was why Mr H had received 
communications about the mortgage at various times. It acknowledged that Mr H had given 
consent for Britannia to sell the property, but it confirmed that the other borrower would also 
need to give their consent; it suggested Mr H might want to speak to her about the matter. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied and referred the complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
considered Mr Hs complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be upheld. He said that he 
appreciated that Mr H didnt want to be a party to the mortgage anymore and wanted 
Britannia to force the sale of the property, but he didnt think Britannia had acted unfairly 
when managing the account. This was because, whilst there had been some arrears in the 
past, the account had been kept up to date for some time and there was no reason for 
Britannia to take action on the account at the present time. He also pointed out that Britannia 
was unable to force Mr Hs ex-partner to make changes to the mortgage or to do an income 
and expenditure assessment.
Mr H didnt accept the investigators view and asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I believe it would be appropriate for me to explain at this point that a mortgage lender is 
required by the regulator to do what it can to assist a consumer in financial difficulties. 
Repossession is the last resort in that process. It wouldnt be appropriate for a lender to start 
possession proceedings on a property where the mortgage was being maintained or where a 
consumer was actively dealing with the consequences of any periods of financial difficulties. 
As our investigator pointed out, whilst there have been periods where the mortgage account 
was in arrears, those arrears have been relatively small amounts and repaid in a short 
period of time. We wouldnt expect a lender to take action to repossess a property in such 
circumstances and if it did, we would have concerns about whether it had treated the 
consumer(s) fairly.
I note that Mr H has said the position of the mortgage is better than it otherwise would be 
because he has been contributing to it. I can understand why hes upset that his actions 
were effectively being cited by our investigator as the cause for Britannia not taking the 
action he wants it to in relation to the property. However, it is the management of the 
account that is the key to whether a lender takes action to repossess a property, not who 
has made the payments that have maintained it. 
Furthermore, as the investigator correctly pointed out, Britannia isnt able to make Mr Hs 
ex-partner co-operate in actions she doesnt want to. So it cant force her to re-mortgage to 
property in her own name, agree to sell it or even complete an income and expenditure 
exercise. 
I know that Mr H wont be happy with my conclusions, but I dont think Britannia has done 
anything wrong in its handling of the mortgage in question. The fact that it didnt take action 
to repossess the property when there were periods of difficulties with payments, which may 
have caused Mr H to contribute funds he otherwise wouldnt have and might have affected 
his credit file, doesnt mean the lender did anything wrong.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 
3 September 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman