DRN-4271529
The complaint
The trustees of a trust, which I will call Trust E, complain about the actions of National 
Westminster Bank Plc. They are represented by Mr S (who is himself one of the trustees).
Mr S complains that NatWests processes are not fit for purpose in respect of trust bank 
accounts. Specifically, he complains that NatWest wrongly placed restrictions on Trust Es 
account, with the result that payments could not be made to the trusts beneficiary.
To resolve the complaint, Mr S would like NatWest to reimburse Trust E for the trustees fees 
in relation to this issue, and to pay compensation for the inconvenience of having to 
repeatedly provide the same information to NatWest. He would also like NatWest to confirm 
that it now has all the information it needs, and that it will not be placing restrictions on Trust 
Es account in future. Finally, he would like NatWest to change its processes in respect of 
trust accounts.
This final decision relates to the trustees complaint about Trust Es bank account only. 
However, the circumstances that led to this complaint are very similar to the circumstances 
that have led to other complaints Mr S has asked me to consider. I hope both he and 
NatWest will understand that that means there are also similarities in the way I have chosen 
to express my findings about his various complaints.
What happened
The background to this complaint is complex, and involves a great deal of correspondence 
between Mr S and the bank. I confirm I have read all the evidence both parties have 
provided, but Ill briefly summarise the situation as follows:
Mr S is a trustee of four trusts, each of which bank with NatWest. Trust E is one of 
those four trusts. (He is also a NatWest customer in his personal capacity, but his 
personal accounts are not directly relevant here.)
In 2021, he attempted to make changes to the mandate for the other three trusts (not 
Trust E), and to access online banking. He and his fellow trustees attempted to 
provide NatWest with information about the trusts, and to satisfy it that they were who 
they said they were  but they experienced significant difficulties. NatWest accepted 
that it did not handle that matter well. The 2021 complaints were resolved in April 
2022 following involvement from one of our investigators.
Shortly after the 2021 complaints were resolved, NatWest began a review of the 
evidence it had on file about Trust E  and decided that it needed further information. 
I do not believe that review was in any way related to the 2021 complaints.
In March 2022, Mr S made further complaints (which I will refer to collectively as the 
2022 complaints). This complaint about Trust E is one of the 2022 complaints.
NatWest told us that it did not receive the information it needed in respect of Trust E, 
and so it applied a restriction to the trusts bank account. It later removed that 
restriction pending the completion of our investigation into the matter.
Mr Ss 2022 complaints were referred to a second investigator (not the one who 
looked at the 2021 complaints). The second investigator did not uphold the 
complaints. In relation to Trust E, he said that the systems NatWest uses and the 
information it requests is a business decision for the bank. He said NatWest had 
been clear about the information it required from Mr S and his fellow trustees, and 
that the bank had also been clear that it would restrict Trust Es account if it didnt 
receive the information it had asked for. Given that NatWest was carrying out its 
regulatory requirements, our investigator didnt think the bank had done anything 
wrong  so he didnt think it would be fair to recommend compensation.
Mr S did not accept our investigators conclusions about the 2022 complaints. He said he 
had demonstrated to both our service and to the bank, that he and his fellow trustees had 
provided all the documentation the bank had asked for. He said they provided that 
documentation by post, through the business profile portal or by a personal visit to a bank 
branch. He also said he does not and cannot accept that NatWest is entitled to seek 
information based on a Trust being a business.
Our investigator could not reach agreement between the trustees and the bank, and so the 
2022 complaints were passed to me.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2023. Briefly, my provisional 
findings were:
NatWest did not treat the trustees of Trust E fairly.
To put the matter right, NatWest should pay the trustees of Trust E £500.
NatWest should state clearly what information it needs from the trustees, and give 
them one month to provide that information.
In more detail, I said:
My role as an ombudsman
I acknowledge Mr Ss belief that our investigator has been hiding behind rules and 
regulations. I am sorry to cause him further disappointment, but I anticipate he will 
be equally frustrated with me. I dont accept that I am hiding behind rules, but some 
of the requests Mr S has made  for example, that I consider whether the banks 
business practices are fit for purpose  lie outside of my powers.
I am an ombudsman, not a regulator. That means it is not appropriate for me to 
prescribe the maximum (or minimum) time periods between NatWest asking its 
customers for identity evidence. I cannot order NatWest to change its overall 
processes (including the fact it asks trustees to use its Business Profile Portal, or 
BPP), nor can I order it to change the way in which it trains its staff.My powers are explained in more detail in the Dispute Resolution chapter of the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook, which can be found online at 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/ .
In addition, I am only able to consider complaints which have been properly referred 
to me, and which the respondent firm has had a fair opportunity to address. I cannot 
decide of my own volition to begin an investigation, even where I have good reason 
to believe that the customer involved would welcome my involvement. And I cannot 
prejudge or predetermine a complaint that has yet to be made.
All I can do is look at a specific complaint that has been referred to me, taking into 
account the circumstances of that particular case, and determine the fair and 
reasonable outcome in that one case.
That means I can look at Mr Ss complaint about the actions NatWest has already 
taken, but I cannot (yet) consider a complaint about any restriction the bank might 
apply in future.
Regardless of the merits of any particular case, I do not think it would be appropriate 
for me to attempt to issue a direction preventing a bank from ever applying a 
restriction to a particular account. I think the bank is right to say that it is legally 
required to regularly check that the information it holds about its customers is 
accurate and up-to-date. Given that I cannot possibly know what might happen in 
future, I cannot say now whether future events might lead the bank to be justified in 
applying a restriction.
Did NatWest treat the trustees fairly?
NatWest has considerable commercial discretion in the way it chooses to comply 
with its regulatory responsibilities. Mr S has not at any point disputed that, nor has he 
disputed NatWests right to request information about its customers. His concern is 
about NatWest asking for information he cannot provide (such as the trusts website 
address), and about its requests for information that he says it has already been 
given and then misplaced.
I understand NatWest first contacted Mr S to ask for further information about Trust E 
in February 2022. Mr S told us he had a frustrating conversation with a member of 
NatWests staff in March 2022  he said the bank had assured him the call would 
take no longer than 15 minutes, but it was over an hour and still the banks Business 
Profile Portal was not properly completed.
Over the next few months, there was substantial further correspondence between Mr 
S and NatWest. By the beginning of August 2022, Mr Ss position was that he had 
submitted everything NatWest had asked for  and yet the bank still applied a 
restriction to Trust Es account, causing disruptions to the beneficiarys payments for 
a short period. Mr S had to arrange for Trust Es investment returns to be paid to his 
firms client account instead of to Trust Es own bank account.
Mr S appears unclear as to what NatWest still needs  he thinks hes provided 
everything it has asked for at least once, and some of those things several times 
over. I am similarly confused; it is not at all clear to me what NatWest still needs from 
Trust Es trustees. I am therefore unable to conclude that NatWest has explained its 
position in a way understandable to Mr S. I do not think the bank has done enough to 
tell the trustees what it needs in order to allow the trusts bank account to function as 
intended.Having considered everything both parties have provided, I am satisfied that the 
trustees of Trust E provided identity evidence when they said they did. I am also 
satisfied that, to the best of their ability, they did comply with NatWests requests that 
they provide information about the trust.
I acknowledge that NatWest says it is not now in possession of the documents it 
needs. I accept that. But I think the two most likely explanations for the lack of 
documents are that either NatWest has misplaced the documents it received, or that 
NatWest did not tell the trustees what it still needed and so the trustees had no 
opportunity to provide those documents.
Putting things right
In this case, I think there are two things NatWest needs to put right. Firstly, it should 
ensure that its records in respect of Trust E are now correct. Secondly, it should 
compensate the trustees for the distress and inconvenience its errors have already 
caused.
It appears the parties are at something of an impasse in respect of NatWests 
records. Mr S says  and I accept  that he has provided the information NatWest 
requested many times over. He does not wish to provide the information again, 
presumably because he believes doing so will merely cause inconvenience to him 
without actually moving matter forward.
NatWest says  and again I accept its evidence  that it does not in fact have the 
information it needs to comply with its regulatory requirements. Regardless of why 
NatWest does not have that information, I am not prepared to make an order 
requiring NatWest to ignore those requirements.
To resolve the matter, I propose the following:
Within one month of Es trustees accepting my final decision, NatWest should 
write to the trustees setting out precisely what information it needs in respect 
of Trust E, and giving them a named contact and address to send that 
information to.
Es trustees should then be able to provide the information NatWest needs. I 
acknowledge that that will cause them further inconvenience, and I have 
taken that into account in the compensation I suggest below.
NatWest should give the trustees a month to respond to its information 
request. Until that month has expired, NatWest should not use the fact it does 
not have the information it has asked for to apply restrictions to Trust Es 
account. (I should make clear that I do not intend to prevent NatWest from 
applying a restriction should it believe it needs to do so for some other 
reason, for example if it were to receive new information that caused it 
concern.)
I hope NatWest will choose to respond to this provisional decision by giving me a 
detailed explanation of the information it still requires. But it is not bound by this 
provisional decision, and it will not be bound by my final decision unless and until the 
trustees accept that decision.So far as financial compensation is concerned, Im currently minded to award £500. I 
know that is much less than Mr S believes is fair, and that NatWest believes it should 
not have to make a payment at all. But in reaching that figure, I have in mind:
This is not a case in which NatWest has made previous errors in respect of 
the trustees identity evidence. I accept that the confusion over the 
information NatWest still needs will have caused the trustees distress, but this 
is not a case in which the trustees distress will have been compounded by 
previous errors.
We do not usually award compensation at a complainants hourly rate; we do 
not value one persons time over anothers.
In addition, we do not usually make awards for the time complainants spend 
in making complaints, either to us or to the firm involved.
We do consider the impact that the businesss mistake had on the individual 
complainant. Here, the beneficiarys income payment was disrupted in August 
2022, but that amount was relatively small and Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that the delay caused any particular problems for the beneficiary. However, 
the fact Mr S had to arrange for the beneficiarys income payments to be 
made through his firms client account rather than from the trusts own bank 
account will have caused further inconvenience to Mr S.
Mr S will now need to provide further documentary evidence to NatWest yet 
again. Had he been providing evidence for the first time, I would not have 
awarded any compensation. But I think the evidence suggests that NatWest 
has not been clear about the evidence it needs from Trust Es trustees. Im 
satisfied that Mr S has made previous attempts to answer NatWests 
questions, and so I think the trustees should be compensated for having to do 
so again.
It is of course possible that, on receipt of this provisional decision, NatWest will 
conduct a thorough search and determine that in fact it does have the documents it 
needs after all. If it chooses to carry out a search, it may wish to start by looking to 
see if any of the documents it needs in respect of Trust E have been misfiled against 
other trusts Mr S is associated with.
The compensation I intend to award is based on the assumption that NatWest in fact 
cannot find the documents it needs, and Trust Es trustees will need to provide those 
documents again. If that turns out not to be the case  and NatWest is able to 
reassure me that it does not immediately need anything further from the trustees  
then its likely I will reduce the amount of compensation that I think is fair.
Neither party accepted my provisional decision.
Briefly, NatWest said:
It questions the fairness of issuing a decision on events which have taken place after 
the banks final response, and which the bank has not yet been given ample 
opportunity to investigate. However, having fully investigated those events its position 
is that there has been no bank error.
The account was restricted on 19 July 2022. At that point, it had already written to the customer several times to confirm that they needed to supply information and 
identification, and it had warned the customer that failure to respond in full would 
result in the account being restricted. It has no record of the customer having made 
any calls to say that they were having any difficulties or that they had already 
supplied the documents.
Its customer portal and FAQ are very clear about its requirements. The previous 
online ID attempts by the trustees did not work and this was clearly shown on the 
customer portal with the option to send another online request or to uphold 
documents.
It has no evidence to show that the trustees uploaded the trust deed to its portal 
before 16 May 2022.
It wrote to its customer on 15 July 2022 to say that it needed a Trust 
Lawyer/Accountant Letter form to be completed. The customer supplied that form on 
5 August 2022.
The secondary online ID requests for the trustees were subsequently completed, 
and the account restriction was removed on 16 August 2022 with the review being 
completed on 5 October 2022 with no further outstanding requirements.
It has checked its files for the other three trusts Mr S is associated with, and has not 
found any documents incorrectly uploaded to those files in respect of Trust E. It has 
also found no evidence of duplicated uploads or requests for evidence has already 
been supplied.
Overall, it considers that the account was restricted correctly due to the outstanding 
requirements at the time. There is no evidence the customers had already supplied 
the information required, nor that they had attempted to mitigate their risk by calling 
prior to the restriction date to explain that they were having difficulties. It therefore 
does not agree that it should have to pay any compensation in respect of this 
complaint.
In summary, Mr S said:
An award of £500 would not properly factor in the level of distress and inconvenience 
suffered by the trustees and the beneficiary, nor does it compensate for lack of 
access to the trusts money. He does not believe that it would represent fair and 
reasonable compensation in all the circumstances of the complaint.
He has received no explanation as to why he is required to provide identity evidence 
separately in respect of all four of the trusts. 
He finds it disturbing that I have made no reference to NatWests failure to comply 
with the timescales required for dealing with the complaint he made on 27 April 2022. 
NatWest has also ignored the request he made in his complaint that he be provided 
with a transcript of what I described in my provisional decision as the frustrating 
conversation with a member of NatWests staff, and he asks why I did not address 
that failure. He considers that the compensation award should be increased to reflect 
the additional distress he suffered as a result of NatWests failures in that regard.
The beneficiarys dependence upon the monthly income from Trust E was 
exacerbated by the pandemic, but that has been ignored. The beneficiary must be treated as a vulnerable adult. The payments the beneficiary received from the trust 
were not small in the context of his income, and he should receive compensation 
for the distress that he suffered.
NatWest continued to levy monthly bank charges whilst providing poor service, and it 
should refund those charges.
He considers that I should make an award for his professional costs, which as at 
February 2023 were almost £6,000 (and have since increased).
He also considers that NatWest did not provide a service which was prompt, efficient 
and fair, and therefore that it has breached regulations in the Banking Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (BCOBS). He also considers that it has breached the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) in respect of delay in carrying out payment 
instructions. He notes that the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) 
provides a route for damages in the event of such a breach.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have provided detailed responses to my provisional decision. I confirm that I 
have read and considered everything they have said, but I have not responded to every 
point they have made. I intend no discourtesy by that; it simply reflects the informal nature of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
When I issued my February 2023 provisional decision, I hadnt realised that NatWest had 
completed its review in October 2022. I thought the review was still ongoing and that the 
trustees might have to provide further information  but I also thought the trustees had 
already provided everything NatWest said it needed, so I wasnt clear on what more 
NatWest wanted.
In light of NatWests response to my provisional decision, I am satisfied that NatWest does 
not in fact want any additional information in order to carry out its KYC review for Trust E. 
That means I no longer think it would be fair for me to order NatWest to pay the trustees 
compensation for having to provide that additional information.
I know Mr S will be disappointed that I have not looked more broadly at the way NatWest 
handles trust accounts. As I said in my provisional decision, I am an ombudsman not a 
regulator, and I have no power to carry out the review he would like. I am only able to look at 
this individual complaint, and it would not be appropriate for me to make any more general 
comments about how NatWest should treat trustees, or about how (if at all) it should link 
accounts for trusts with trustees in common.
I acknowledge that Mr S believes I have the power to make an award to the beneficiary for 
distress that he has suffered, but he is is mistaken on that point. The beneficiary is not an 
eligible complainant under our rules, and I have no power to make an award for losses 
suffered by third parties. I accept that knowledge of the beneficiarys distress may itself have 
been distressing to the trustees, but I am also mindful that as solicitors the trustees were 
able to take action to mitigate the problems the beneficiary suffered (in that they could 
arrange for payments to the beneficiary to be made via their client account). I acknowledge 
that action would have caused some inconvenience to the trustees, and I have taken that 
into account in considering my award.In addition, I do not have the power to investigate the way a bank has handled a complaint. 
Complaint handling is not an activity covered under our rules. The activities we do cover are 
set out in full at DISP 2.3 ( https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/2/3.html ).
I do have the power to make an award for professional costs where I believe it is fair and 
reasonable for me to do so. But I make no such award here. Mr S is bringing this complaint 
in his capacity as a trustee. NatWest is entitled to ask him, as a trustee, to comply with its 
KYC process. Given the circumstances here, I see no basis on which I could fairly require 
NatWest to reimburse his costs in complying with that process or in bringing his complaint to 
our service.
I also have the power to order a bank to refund charges, but again I may only do so where I 
believe that is a fair and reasonable resolution to the complaint. Here, NatWest has provided 
a banking service to Trust E throughout. There have been deficiencies in that service  
hence my award for inconvenience  but I see no reason why NatWest should not be 
entitled to charge for the services it has provided.
Finally, I confirm that I have taken the relevant rules and regulations into account before 
reaching the overall conclusion that a payment of £250 to the trustees represents fair 
compensation. I acknowledge that Mr S considers that I have reached the wrong conclusion. 
The trustees are not required to accept my decision, and if they choose not to do so it will 
not be binding on them or the bank. If they reject my decision, any legal rights they may 
have will not be affected by my consideration of their complaint.
Putting things right
Taking into account all the information both parties have provided, I now consider that the 
fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint would be for NatWest to pay the trustees £250 
for the inconvenience they have suffered. In saying that, I have in mind:
Everyone agrees that the trustees initial attempts to verify their ID using NatWests 
portal did not work. The parties have conflicting views as to why that did not work. In 
principle I have no objection to NatWest asking its customers to submit information 
via an online portal so long as it provides alternatives for those who cant do so  and 
here it did provide alternatives. 
However, I still think NatWest has made errors, and that the KYC process was 
unnecessarily protracted. As I explained in my provisional decision, having 
considered all of NatWests evidence I was unable to establish what the bank wanted 
the trustees to do  so I couldnt (and still cant) conclude that the bank had set out its 
requirements clearly. I also note that the bank restricted Trust Es account just a few 
days after it requested the Trust Lawyer/Accountant Letter form, and I do not 
consider that it gave the trustees enough time to comply with its requests.
In the specific circumstances of this complaint, I think it is appropriate for me to take 
into account events that happened after the bank issued its final response. The 
complaint here is about the way the bank carried out its KYC process, and the 
subsequent events I have considered relate to the consequences of the initial act 
complained of. In any event, I am satisfied that NatWest has had ample opportunity 
to set out its position, and it has done so.
Overall, I think that if NatWest had been clear earlier about what it needed, it is 
unlikely to have needed to apply a restriction to Trust Es account in July 2022 (and 
possibly not at all). In that case the trustees would have had access to the money in Trust Es account between 19 July and 16 August 2022. The trustees would not then 
have suffered the inconvenience of having to arrange an alternative way for the 
beneficiary to receive income payments. They should be compensated for that 
inconvenience. 
Looking at everything that happened, and applying my own judgement, my opinion is 
that a payment of £250 represents fair compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience suffered by the trustees.
My final decision
My final decision is that I order National Westminster Bank Plc to pay the trustees of Trust E 
£250. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Trust E to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman