DRN-3338724
The complaint
Mrs and Mr H complain about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) dealt with 
their claim following an incident where their caravan was damaged.
What happened
Mrs and Mr H had touring caravan insurance underwritten by RSA. While Mr H was moving 
the caravan in preparation for a trip, it slipped and rolled into a wall. Mrs and Mr H had a 
new for old policy. RSA arranged for the caravan to be inspected and decided it could be 
economically repaired. Mrs and Mr H were unhappy about this as they felt the caravan 
should be replaced with a new one due to the nature of the damage.
RSA arranged for the caravan to be taken to a repair company approved by the 
manufacturer. Because of the Covid-19 lockdown, there were delays in starting the repairs. 
There were also problems with getting hold of some parts. So it was about a year after the 
accident before Mrs and Mr H were able to go away in the caravan again. Mrs and Mr H say 
there were then further problems with the caravan and they were worried about whether it 
was safe for them to use. The caravan went back to the approved repair company. Some of 
the problems were accepted as related to the original accident and it was agreed theyd be 
repaired. But the repair company said some of the issues werent related to the accident, so 
RSA wouldnt pay for them. 
Mrs and Mr H paid to have the caravan serviced because they were concerned that there 
might be further problems they hadnt noticed. RSA wasnt prepared to pay for this as it said 
only areas that had been repaired and those likely to have been affected by the accident 
would be checked by the repair company, and a service was due anyway.
Mrs and Mr H werent happy with how RSA were dealing with things and so they complained 
to this service. Our investigator upheld their complaint in respect of the delays and the 
distress and inconvenience caused. He suggested RSA should pay Mrs and Mr H £500 in 
respect of this. RSA agreed.
However Mrs and Mr H werent happy with the investigators response and so their 
complaint has been passed to me. Mrs and Mr H say theyve accepted that RSA wont pay 
for a new caravan. But theyre unhappy that RSA let them go away in a caravan which they 
say hadnt had a full inspection. They want RSA to pay for the other repairs which it says 
arent related to the accident. Mrs and Mr H also say that the information provided by RSA 
about new for old insurance was unclear. And they say their time and diesel is worth more 
than £500. Theyve also asked if they can be compensated for the loss of their holidays.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mrs and Mr Hs complaint as far as it concerns the delays. Ill explain why.
Mrs and Mr H had new for old insurance. Mrs and Mr Hs insurance policy defines new for 
old as:
The cost of replacing your caravan, equipment and personal possessions with a brand new 
equivalent in the event of a total loss claim.
It also says:
Market value
If your caravan [is] damaged and the cost of repair exceeds the market valuewe 
will pay the market value (unless the new for old clause is operative)
New for old
If your caravan is damaged and the cost of repair exceeds the cost of replacement with a 
new one of the same make and modelwe will pay for a replacement with a new one of the 
same make and model.
The estimated cost of the repairs was around half of the sum Mrs and Mr H had the caravan 
insured for. So I think it was fair and reasonable and in line with the terms of Mrs and Mr Hs 
policy for RSA to decide to repair the caravan and not replace it with a new one. I also think 
that, looking at all the information RSA provided, the terms and conditions of the new for old 
policy were clear.
I think it was fair and reasonable for RSA to rely on the manufacturer approved repair 
company to say what work was needed as a result of the accident and what wasnt related to 
the accident. I also think it was fair and reasonable for RSA to rely on the repair company to 
check that the repairs had been carried out properly and the caravan was safe. So I dont 
think RSA should have to pay for the caravan to be serviced or for the other repairs. If Mrs 
and Mr H have any independent expert evidence that there are any issues remaining that 
were caused by the accident, they can give this to RSA to consider.
Mrs and Mr H have had to make multiple phone calls to RSA and the repair company to try 
to progress the repairs, and have had to make a number of trips to the repair company. 
There have been times when RSA havent been proactive in pushing things forward and 
keeping Mrs and Mr H informed. Many of the delays have been caused by Covid-19 and by 
difficulty obtaining parts, which is outside RSAs control. However as of February 2022, over 
18 months since the accident, the caravan still hadnt been repaired to Mrs and Mr Hs 
satisfaction. Theyve missed a number of holidays, but they didnt have insurance to cover 
the loss of their holidays while the caravan was in for repair, and this service wouldnt usually 
expect an insurer to compensate a consumer for this. RSA has already agreed to pay Mrs 
and Mr H £500 in recognition of their distress and inconvenience, which is in line with other 
awards suggested by this service in similar circumstances. So I think this is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
For all the reasons above Im upholding Mrs and Mr Hs complaint in respect of the delays 
and inconvenience in dealing with their claim. I require Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to pay Mrs and Mr H £500 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience this 
caused them.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman