DRN-3824806
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the interest rate on her mortgage with Kensington Mortgage 
Company Limited. She complains that Kensington wont allow her to take a new fixed 
interest rate, which would reduce her payments. 
Mrs D is now represented by her granddaughter, whos dealt with this complaint on her 
behalf. But for ease Ill refer to Mrs D throughout, including when dealing with things her 
granddaughter has said on her behalf. 
What happened
Mrs D and her late husband took out their mortgage with another lender in 2005. The 
mortgage was later transferred to Kensington. They took a three year fixed interest rate, 
which expired in 2008. Since then, the mortgage has been on a variable rate. The mortgage 
offer and terms and conditions say that the interest rate is made up of an underlying variable 
rate which will never be more than 2% above the LIBOR rate, plus a fixed margin of 2%. In 
other words, the mortgage is on a variable rate subject to a cap of 4% above LIBOR. 
Mrs D first brought this complaint, explaining that Mr D was very unwell, she was acting as 
his carer and was herself unwell. They were finding the mortgage payments a struggle and 
had realised that their monthly payments had gone up. Sadly Mr D has since passed away, 
and the mortgage continues in Mrs Ds sole name. 
Mrs D said that the interest rate Kensington was charging was unfairly high. She hadnt 
understood what had happened when the interest rate ended in 2008, as initially the monthly 
payments went down. It was only later that she realised she was on a variable rate and her 
payments were increasing. She was concerned about keeping up with the payments. She 
said Kensington ought to have put her on a new fixed rate. But when she discussed this with 
Kensington, she was told there were no interest rates available to her. 
Mrs D also said that she understood that the mortgage was to be switched over to 
repayment terms when the rate expired in 2008. But that hadnt happened, and she was 
worried about being able to repay the capital at the end of the term. 
Kensington said that the mortgage was actually taken out on repayment terms, but in 2007 
Mr and Mrs D asked for it to be switched to interest only as they were struggling with the 
repayments. It said there was no agreement that it would be switched back, or that there 
would be a new interest rate, when the initial fixed rate expired in 2008. Kensington said that 
if Mrs D was concerned about her payments, or about repaying the capital, it would be 
willing to discuss things with her. But her mortgage was not eligible for a new interest rate. 
Kensington objected to us considering part of this complaint. Ive previously issued a 
decision setting out my conclusions that we can only consider the fairness of the interest rate 
since 9 January 2014  including whether or not Kensington should have offered Mr and Mrs 
D a new fixed rate after that date. I said that anything before that date was out of time and 
could not be considered. 
Our investigator went on to consider the merits of that part of Mrs Ds complaint. She said 
there was no evidence Mr and Mrs D had asked for a new fixed rate before January 2020. 
But then they had been told none was available to them. 
Our investigator noted that Kensington did offer new fixed rates to other existing customers 
at that time, and didnt think it was fair that Mr and Mrs D  who had similar characteristics to 
those other customers  had been told they werent eligible. She said that Kensington should 
re-work their mortgage as if it had offered them the best interest rate it had available for 
existing customers over a five year fixed term at that time. 
As Kensington did not reply to the investigators assessment, the case came to me for a 
decision to be made.
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision, in which I said: 
Im satisfied that theres no evidence Mr and Mrs D asked Kensington to consider a 
new interest rate on their mortgage before 2020. This case is about whether or not 
its fair that Kensington didnt make a new interest rate available to Mr and Mrs D 
when they requested one in January 2020. 
Under the terms and conditions of their mortgage offer, there is no obligation to offer 
a new rate. Mr and Mrs Ds fixed rate expired in 2008, and since then the mortgage 
has been on a variable rate  just as the offer said it would be. 
Theres also nothing in the rules of mortgage regulation, or the regulators guidance, 
which says that a lender has to make new interest rates available to its customers. 
Im aware that its a common feature of the mortgage market that borrowers take new 
interest rates (whether through a switch with their existing lender, or through moving 
to a new lender) and to that extent it may be a general expectation that rates might 
be available. But theres nothing that requires a new lender to offer new rates to 
existing customers. 
Until 2017, Kensington didnt offer new rates to any existing customers. Any 
customer who wanted to take a new rate after the expiry of their initial rate would 
either have to move to a new lender, or apply to Kensington as a new customer for a 
new mortgage to replace the old one. 
As a result, therefore, there was nothing unfair in Kensington keeping Mr and Mrs D 
on their variable rate before 2017. There was no obligation to give them a new rate, 
and they were being treated the same as all other existing customers. 
From 2017, Kensington did start to make new rates available to existing customers. 
But there was no requirement for it to pro-actively contact Mr and Mrs D  or any 
other borrower  to tell them that a rate might be available and to invite them to 
apply. 
However, had Mr and Mrs D asked for a rate at any point, given that there were now 
rates available to existing customers, Kensington would have needed to give any 
application fair consideration, acting fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances in 
deciding whether or not to offer a new rate to Mr and Mrs D. But theres no evidence 
Mr and Mrs D made such an application before 2020. 
That brings me to January 2020. That was when Mr and Mrs D did ask Kensington about their mortgage interest rate, whether it was fixed or variable and whether they 
could take a new interest rate. By this time their granddaughter was assisting them 
and was concerned that they had no means of repaying the capital, and appeared to 
be paying a relatively high variable interest rate. 
Kensington has confirmed that Mr and Mrs D were on a variable rate, had been since 
2008, and that no new fixed rates were available to them. 
While Mr and Mrs D did not formally apply for a new rate at this time, there would 
have been little point in them doing so since, under Kensingtons criteria, they were 
not eligible for one. 
But I think its clear they were concerned about the state of their mortgage and what 
they were paying, and had they been able to do so I think its likely they would have 
asked for a new, lower, fixed rate. 
What I have to consider in this decision is whether it was fair that Kensington did not 
make a new rate available to them  or whether, acting fairly, Kensington ought to 
have made a rate available to them as it would have some other customers. 
Kensingtons policy on rate switches 
Before 2017, Kensington did not offer new interest rates to existing customers. An 
existing customer whose introductory rate had expired and wanted a new rate would 
either have to move lender, or would have to re-apply to Kensington as a new 
customer for a new mortgage. 
From 2017, however, Kensington began to offer new interest rates to some existing 
customers. It has explained to us that its criteria for offering new rates are that: 
At the point at which the mortgage was taken out, the customer would have 
passed the affordability and regulatory requirements in place now;
The customers credit risk is in line with Kensingtons current credit risk 
appetite;
There is no history of arrears on the mortgage;
The original mortgage lending was by Kensington  not another lender with 
the mortgage later moving to Kensington;
The mortgage was taken out no earlier than 1 January 2010. 
Kensington has explained that its business model relies on securitisation. This is a 
relatively common model in the mortgage industry. In essence, once it has lent a 
mortgage and is entitled to receive the repayments, Kensington sells the beneficial 
interest (the benefit of the repayments) to a third party in order to fund further lending 
to other customers. Loans are not securitised individually, but packaged into groups 
called special purpose vehicles.
Under this model, Kensington remains the owner of the mortgage, remains the lender 
of record, and continues to be the firm that the borrower deals with. But once it has 
collected the payments, it passes the benefit of them on to the investor which bought 
the vehicle including that loan. Kensington has explained that under the terms of its agreements with the investors 
which bought the securitisation vehicles, it cannot make changes to existing 
mortgages  such as offering new interest rates. It may be able to offer new rates 
when securitisations expire and are re-financed onto terms that do allow variations to 
the mortgages. 
And it may be able to offer a new rate if a loan meets the current criteria that 
investors will accept as part of a securitisation vehicle  which explains the criteria 
around passing current requirements even on loans that were taken out some time 
before. It can offer a rate if it can extract a loan from a securitisation and then 
resecuritise it with a new interest rate  but only if the loan would be acceptable to a 
new securitisation vehicle. Loans taken out before 2010, and loans taken out which, 
at the time, did not meet regulatory requirements now in place do not meet that 
standard. 
Such customers include those whose loans were underwritten based on the 
standards which applied before the financial crisis of 2007/8  including customers 
who self-certified their income, who did not have to show that they had a repayment 
strategy for an interest only mortgage, and so on. 
Because these customers cannot be re-securitised, they are not eligible for a new 
interest rate. And because Mrs Ds mortgage was taken out before 2007 and is on 
interest only terms, her mortgage falls into this category. 
Separately, and more recently, Kensington has introduced what it calls a mortgage 
prisoners product  an interest rate specifically aimed at customers who are not 
otherwise eligible for a rate switch, and who are likely to be unable to move their 
mortgage elsewhere. 
During the course of this complaint, Kensington assessed whether to offer Mrs D this 
rate. But it did not do so because, at that time, the rate was higher than the variable 
rate she was paying. 
Ive set out Kensingtons policy, and the rationale for it, at some length above 
because its important context for the actions it took in this case. However, its 
important to note that Ill be focussing on whether Kensington treated Mr and Mrs D 
fairly in their individual circumstances  not on whether its policies and procedures 
are fair more broadly. 
Regulatory considerations 
In deciding whether Kensington treated Mr and Mrs D fairly and reasonably in all the 
circumstances, I also need to take into account the regulators rules and guidance, to 
be found in the MCOB section of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook. 
In my view, of particular importance in this case are the provisions to be found in 
section 11 of MCOB, especially MCOB 11.8.1 E. The suffix E denotes an evidential 
provision not a rule (suffixed R). 
MCOB 11.8.1 E says
Where a customer is unable to: 
(1) enter into a new regulated mortgage contract or home purchase plan or 
vary the terms of an existing regulated mortgage contract or home purchase plan with the existing mortgage lender or home purchase provider; or 
(2) enter into a new regulated mortgage contract or home purchase plan with 
a new mortgage lender or home purchase provider; 
the existing mortgage lender or home purchase provider should not (for 
example, by offering less favourable interest rates or other terms) take 
advantage of the customers situation or treat the customer any less 
favourably than it would treat other customers with similar characteristics. To 
do so may be relied on as tending to show contravention of Principle 6 
(customers interests). 
Principle 6 says: 
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly. 
As Ive noted, MCOB 11.8.1 E is an evidential provision  not a rule  but it says that 
treatment of the kind set out in the provision may tend to show unfairness. In some 
situations, therefore, it also may not show unfairness  much will depend on the 
individual circumstances. 
Did Kensington treat Mr and Mrs D (and later Mrs D) fairly and reasonably in all the 
circumstances? 
Ive already explained that Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage was on a variable rate from 
2008 (when their initial fixed rate expired) onwards. And Ive said that theres no 
evidence that they asked Kensington about changing their interest rate, or formally 
applied for a new rate, until January 2020. At this time they didnt formally apply for a 
new rate  but they enquired about their interest rate, and I think they would have 
applied had a rate been available to them. 
Theres no obligation on lenders to offer customers new interest rates on their 
mortgages. Kensington did not offer new rates to any existing customers until 2017. 
Once it started to do so, it was under no obligation to notify Mr and Mrs D of this 
change in policy, and under no obligation to invite them to apply for a rate. If Mr and 
Mrs D asked for a rate, it would have needed to give fair consideration to that 
request. But it was not required to pro-actively invite them to do so. 
Prior to 2017, there were no rates available to Mr and Mrs D  in common with all 
Kensingtons customers. As there was no obligation to offer rates, and as Mr and Mrs 
D were being treated the same as all other customers whose initial rates had expired 
and were on reversion rates, I dont think Kensington treated them unfairly. 
And between 2017 and the end of 2019, while new rates were available  to some 
existing customers, at least  because Mr and Mrs D did not apply for one, 
Kensington did not treat them unfairly in this period either. 
In my view, the heart of this complaint is about what happened in January 2020, 
when Mr and Mrs D did ask Kensington about their interest rate  and whether 
Kensington gave fair consideration to their situation at this time. This was different to 
the situation prior to 2017, since by then Kensington did make interest rates available 
to some  but not all  existing customers. So the question I have to consider is 
whether, in offering rates to other customers but not to Mr and Mrs D, Kensington 
acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances. Kensington has explained that Mr and Mrs D were not eligible for a rate, under its 
eligibility criteria, because their mortgage was taken out before 2010, when lending 
standards were very different to today. As a result, their mortgage no longer meets 
Kensingtons current risk appetite  in part because of difficulties in re-securitising it 
based on current investor risk appetite. 
Kensington hasnt explained what the specific risk factors it believes Mrs Ds 
mortgage presents. Ive not seen any evidence that it was taken out on a 
selfcertification basis or sub-prime basis, for example. It might have been  but if so, 
that has not been evidenced to me. 
So while I accept that, in general, underwriting standards and the requirements of 
mortgage regulation were different when Mr and Mrs D took out their mortgage  and 
less stringent than they are today  Ive not seen anything specific to the decision to 
lend this mortgage to Mr and Mrs D that is of particular concern given the change in 
regulation and lending standards in the years since. 
In any case, even if there were evidence that Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage presented a 
specific risk factor at the time it was taken out  such as being underwritten on a 
selfcertification or sub-prime basis, that wouldnt change my view of this complaint. In 
my view, whats relevant for the purposes of the comparison envisaged by MCOB 
11.8.1 E are Mr and Mrs Ds characteristics at the time of any application  not their 
characteristics as they were fifteen years earlier. 
An assessment of the fairness of Mr and Mrs Ds treatment in comparison to the 
treatment of other borrowers is to be based on their situation at the time of the 
assessment. I understand Kensington considers the circumstances in which the 
mortgage was taken out to be relevant to its business model of securitisation. That 
may well be the case  but, as I explain below, thats not relevant to the question of 
whether it treated Mr and Mrs D fairly in their particular circumstances. 
I also note that there is no evidence from the transaction history provided by 
Kensington that this mortgage has ever been in significant arrears. Because no 
application was actually made in January 2020, there was no wider credit risk 
assessment  and so we dont know whether or not Mr and Mrs D would have 
passed it. Though Im not aware of any specific issues that make it likely they 
wouldnt have done. 
Taking into account Kensingtons rate switch criteria, then, I think Mr and Mrs Ds 
mortgage met some of them in January 2020. The mortgage was not and had never 
been in arrears, and Ive no current basis for concluding they would have failed a 
credit risk assessment. 
Therefore, based on their circumstances and the circumstances of their mortgage at 
the time, I dont currently have any evidence for concluding that Mr and Mrs D failed 
Kensingtons criteria in respect of their current circumstances. And so it follows that I 
think its more likely than not that they met these criteria. 
Rather, it seems that the reason Kensington told them no new rate was available to 
them was because they did not meet the rest of its criteria, relating to when their 
mortgage was taken out. In particular, that their mortgage was taken out before 2010 
and that it was taken with another lender and later transferred to Kensington. 
As to whether the mortgage, when taken out, would pass current lending standards  
thats less clear. But given it was taken out on repayment terms (though later switched to interest only) and Ive seen no evidence that it was, for example, self-
certification or sub-prime, I have no basis for concluding that this part of the criteria 
isnt met. 
In any case, Im not persuaded that the circumstances in which Mr and Mrs D took 
out their mortgage, many years ago, are relevant to the fairness of how they were 
treated in January 2020. 
Ive referred above to MCOB 11.8.1 E, which I think is relevant in this situation. 
MCOB 11.8.1 E is an evidential provision  not a rule  but it says that treatment of 
the kind set out in the provision may tend to show unfairness. Though equally it may 
not, depending on the circumstances. 
It says that where a borrower either cant vary their mortgage with an existing lender, 
or cant move their mortgage to another lender, it may be unfair for their existing 
lender to treat them less favourably (for example, by offering less favourable interest 
rates) than it would treat other customers with similar characteristics. 
In my view, this provision is aimed at the unfairness that might result where a 
borrower is unable to move their mortgage and shop around for a better deal  
having no choice but to remain with their existing lender, and being treated less 
favourably than other customers who are otherwise similar to them. 
Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage was transferred to interest only terms soon after it was 
taken out. Mrs D has explained that she has no means of repaying the capital at the 
end of the term, and is very concerned about this. Given that, and given their ages, I 
think its very unlikely, at the time of their discussion with Kensington in January 
2020, that they would have been able to move their mortgage to another lender. That 
brings them within the ambit of MCOB 11.8.1 E. 
Kensington would offer rates to other customers in January 2020  but not Mr and 
Mrs D. Ive explained that Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs D satisfied Kensingtons 
criteria about the current position of their mortgage  but that the reasons for refusing 
them a new rate were because they failed the criteria about how their loan originated. 
Im not persuaded  taking into account MCOB 11.8.1 E  that this was fair. MCOB 
11.8.1 E refers to the treatment of borrowers with similar characteristics. In my view, 
whats relevant to this exercise is Mr and Mrs Ds characteristics at the time they 
made their application  not their characteristics as they might have been fifteen 
years earlier when the mortgage was taken out. 
Mr and Mrs D were not in arrears. Theres no reason to suppose they wouldnt have 
passed a credit check. A borrower who met those criteria would have been offered a 
rate  if their loan was taken out after 2010. But Mr and Mrs D, who also met those 
criteria were not  because their mortgage was taken out before 2010 with another 
lender. 
Im not persuaded this was relevant at the time they made their application. What 
was relevant were their circumstances at the time of their application. In my view, it is 
fair and reasonable to regard their current circumstances as the characteristics which 
are relevant for the purposes of the comparison in MCOB 11.8.1 E, and therefore fair 
and reasonable to consider whether Mr and Mrs D were treated less favourably than 
other customers to whom they were similar at that time. 
I also dont think its relevant that, in January 2020, they had an interest only mortgage with no repayment strategy. This is because this is not part of Kensingtons 
criteria for rate switches. And therefore this would not have been a barrier to a 
borrower who took their mortgage out after 2010 accessing a new interest rate. 
It follows that Mr and Mrs D were treated differently  less favourably, by being 
offered less favourable interest rates  than other customers with similar 
characteristics to them. They were unable to move their mortgage to a new lender or 
shop around for a better deal; they had no option but to remain with Kensington 
regardless of what decisions it made; and by refusing them a rate that it would offer 
to other, similar, customers Kensington didnt treat them fairly. 
Kensington says that the reason for its rate switch criteria is that it has securitised its 
mortgages. Different groups of mortgages are in different securitisation vehicles. And 
the terms of its agreements with those vehicles limit what it can offer existing 
customers  it cannot vary the terms of a mortgage while securitised, and cannot re-
securitise the mortgage of a customer who does not meet the risk appetite of its 
investigators. 
Ive taken that into account. I recognise the constraints under which Kensington 
operates. And I understand that securitisation is a recognised and relatively common 
business model within the mortgage market  and not inherently unfair. 
However, Im not persuaded that this explanation as to why Kensington made the 
decision it did changes my conclusion that Mr and Mrs D were not treated fairly when 
it refused to consider a rate. 
MCOB 11.8.1 E refers to customers of a firm. In my view, this makes it clear that the 
comparison envisaged is to be done across all the customers of the firm  
Kensington  not sub-sets of those customers (subject to them having similar 
characteristics). Whether or not their loan had been securitised, Kensington 
remained Mr and Mrs Ds lender and it remained the firm which owed them 
obligations of fair treatment  including treatment of the sort envisaged in MCOB 
11.8.1 E. 
The mere fact of being a securitised customer, or a customer securitised in one 
vehicle rather than another, is not of itself a characteristic of difference that can in 
and of itself justify different treatment. If that were treated in and of itself as a different 
characteristic, it would prevent there being a comparison between customers of the 
firm merely because of the way the firm has dealt with them internally, since 
customers in different vehicles would be treated as not having similar characteristics 
simply because the lender has chosen to separate them. That would seem to me to 
defeat the purpose of 11.8.1 E. 
I also think its clear from the wording of MCOB 11.8.1 E that what matters is whether 
Mr and Mrs D, as individual mortgage customers, had similar characteristics to other 
individual customers of Kensington  taken as a whole. And if they have similar 
characteristics to those other customers, but are being treated less favourably than 
those other customers, that may tend to show a breach of Principle 6 and unfair 
treatment in their individual case.
I therefore do not think that the mere fact that the mortgage of one customer but not 
another has been securitised, or securitised in a different way or different vehicle, 
can of itself amount to a characteristic of either customer. Securitisation is a 
unilateral step taken in relation to an existing borrowers loan by a lender for the 
lenders prudential and commercial purposes, not a characteristic of the borrower themselves (as loan to value or credit score might be). 
And in my view the existence of contractual terms agreed between Kensington and a 
third party by which Kensington has chosen to constrain its options for managing Mr 
and Mrs Ds mortgage is also not a relevant consideration in deciding what are the 
characteristics of Mr and Mrs D and their mortgage. Nor is it relevant to considering 
whether Kensingtons treatment of them was fair  if Kensington has obligations to 
treat them fairly, those obligations cannot be dis-applied because of an agreement 
Kensington has entered into with a third party. 
In other words securitisation is something done to the borrower by the lender rather 
than a characteristic of the borrower. The lenders decision to securitise might be 
driven in part by its perception of the characteristics of the borrower, or at least the 
average characteristics of the part of the lenders business the borrower sits within. 
But if that is the case, it is those characteristics that may be relevant, not the 
securitisation itself. It is therefore necessary to identify what Mr and Mrs Ds 
characteristics were, and the extent to which they have similar characteristics to 
other customers of Kensington. Ive set out above my analysis of that, and why I 
consider that Mr and Mrs D had similar characteristics to other customers who would 
have been eligible for a rate switch in January 2020. 
Acting fairly and reasonably, therefore, in my view what Kensington ought to have 
done in January 2020 was to have looked at Mr and Mrs D and their circumstances 
and considered whether the application of its rate switch criteria, resulting in the 
refusal of a new rate, would have brought them within the scope of MCOB 11.8.1 E. 
Acting fairly and reasonably, it would have concluded that it did  since they could 
not move to another lender, could not vary their mortgage with Kensington, and were 
potentially being offered less favourable rates than other customers with similar 
characteristics. 
Ive noted that MCOB 11.81 E is an evidential provision tending to show unfairness  
which means that there may be situations in which treatment of the sort described in 
the provision may nevertheless not result in unfairness too. But in this case, where 
Mr and Mrs D were unable to move their mortgage, unable to shop around for a 
better deal, and left with no choice but to remain with Kensington whatever 
happened, it was not fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to refuse to 
consider their request for a new interest rate. In my view, in simply applying its policy 
without considering these broader issues and whether they resulted in unfairness in 
Mr and Mrs Ds specific circumstances, Kensington did not act fairly and reasonably. 
Putting things right 
Had it acted fairly and reasonably at the time, in my view, Kensington ought to have 
gone on to consider whether to offer Mr and Mrs D a new interest rate. Our 
investigator has asked Kensington, on several occasions, to provide her with a list of 
the interest rates Kensington had available to existing customers at this time. It has 
refused to do so  though it has provided us with a list of rates available to new 
customers.
When it responds to this provisional decision, I direct Kensington to provide me with 
a list of the interest rates it had available for existing customers in January 2020. And 
if it has categories of rates for customers or mortgages of different types, it should 
explain which category it believes Mr and Mrs D fell into at the time and why  
disregarding the matters around the circumstances in which their mortgage was 
taken out which Ive said above are not relevant. If Kensington does not provide this information, I shall assume that the list of rates for 
new customers is the same as would have been available to existing customers, and 
will work from the new customer rate list we already have. 
I also direct Kensington to provide me with a history of the variable rate on Mr and 
Mrs Ds mortgage from January 2020 until now. 
I would also like Mrs D and her family to update me on her current situation. Mrs Ds 
granddaughter recently told our investigator that, following the sad loss of Mr D, 
Mrs D no longer thought the mortgage to be sustainable and was considering selling 
the property. I would like to know what her current plans are and whether she does 
intend to sell the property. 
I ask for this because while I have concluded that Kensington did not act fairly in 
considering whether to offer Mr and Mrs D a new rate in January 2020, I still need to 
consider whether, in the particular circumstances of this case, that resulted in 
detriment to Mr and Mrs D, and later to Mrs D. 
I therefore need to confirm what rates Kensington could have offered to Mr and Mrs 
D  and whether the rates it had available would have resulted in a significant saving 
compared to their existing variable rate or not. Im currently minded to say that if the 
available interest rates were significantly better than the variable rate, it would be fair 
to require Kensington to re-work Mrs Ds mortgage as if it had offered them a rate at 
that time. 
However, I also need to take into account the later change in circumstances 
surrounding the passing of Mr D and any changes in Mrs Ds plans that may result. In 
particular, if Mrs D is now intending to sell the property, whether asking Kensington to 
treat her mortgage as if a new fixed rate had been applied from January 2020, and 
continues to apply from now on, might result in her having to pay an early repayment 
charge if she decides to sell the property. 
The existing variable rate does not include an early repayment charge. And I think it 
would be fair to take into account whether  given what has happened in the years 
since January 2020  applying redress in the form of a new rate would in fact leave 
Mrs D in a worse position now. 
For all those reasons, I dont think I am yet in a position to decide what fair redress 
would be in this case. I will consider the responses from both parties and then reach 
a decision. 
However, whether or not I end up directing Kensington to re-work the mortgage as if 
it had offered a rate, I do intend to require it to pay Mrs D compensation for her 
distress and inconvenience. If it ought fairly to have offered a rate  based on the 
factors Ive set out above  the failure to do so has caused Mrs D distress. And if, 
based on those same factors offering a rate would not reduce her monthly payments 
or would otherwise not be the fair thing to do, the failure to explain why that was 
rather than simply refuse to consider her position also caused Mrs D distress. Either 
way, Im minded to say that £500 represents fair compensation here.
The responses to my provisional decision 
Mrs D confirmed that her financial situation hadnt changed. She had decided to remain in 
the property, and her current plan is to explore taking a lifetime mortgage to repay this one in 
due course. Kensington responded to say that it didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said Mr and 
Mrs Ds mortgage was taken out on a self-certified basis. It said that it funds its loans 
through securitisation  a common practice in the mortgage industry. During the 
securitisation period, it cannot make material changes to securitised mortgages, or remove 
them from securitisation to offer a different rate. Where it can offer a rate to a customer, it 
will let that customer know  and if not, recommend they take independent financial advice 
to explore moving to another lender. It said that the way it funds its mortgages is outside our 
jurisdiction and that my provisional decision was not fair and reasonable. It provided the list 
of rates Id asked for, but said that since Mr and Mrs D were not eligible for them it didnt 
consider them relevant to this complaint. 
Kensington also said that it had recently sold this mortgage on to another firm and therefore 
was no longer Mrs Ds lender.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also reconsidered what I said in my provisional decision, including in light of 
Kensingtons response to it. 
Kensington has not made any new arguments. Its said that its funding arrangements fall 
outside the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service, and that my proposed outcome 
is not fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
As I made clear in my provisional decision, and make clear again now, I am aware that 
securitisation is a common practice in the mortgage industry and is a feature of how many 
lenders fund their mortgage lending business. It is not unusual and not something that is 
inherently wrong or unfair. I made  and make  no findings about the fairness of Kensington 
having securitised Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage. Its commercial funding arrangements are not a 
matter for me. 
However, it is very much a matter for me whether Kensington has treated Mr and Mrs D 
fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances  and its in that context that I referred to their 
mortgage having been securitised. 
My key finding in this case is that, at the time of the discussion about a new rate in 2020, Mr 
and Mrs D shared similar characteristics with other customers who were eligible for a new 
rate on their existing mortgage  but Mr and Mrs D were not eligible. 
I referred to MCOB 11.8.1 E, and noted its content and effect. I was satisfied that Mr and 
Mrs D were unable to move their mortgage to another lender, and that therefore MCOB 
11.8.1 E was relevant to their situation.
I found that the reason Kensington did not offer them a new rate was because their 
mortgage was taken out before 2010, and because it had been securitised in a way that did 
not allow for changes to be made. 
Kensington has now confirmed that their mortgage was taken out on a self-certification 
basis. But I dont think that affects my broader conclusions. As I explained, in my view whats 
relevant is Mr and Mrs Ds characteristics at the time they discussed a new rate  not the 
circumstances in which theyd taken their mortgage out around fifteen years earlier. Their 
circumstances may well have changed significantly since then. And other customers who 
were eligible for a rate may well also have faced changed circumstances since taking their loans out  which wouldnt affect their eligibility. In my view, the question to be asked is 
whether, in 2020, Mr and Mrs Ds characteristics at that time were similar to the then current 
characteristics of customers who would be eligible for a rate. And if they were similar, it 
wouldnt be fair not to offer them a rate no less favourable than those other customers. 
Therefore, in my view, the circumstances in which Mr and Mrs D took their mortgage out, or 
the fact that it was taken out prior to 2010, are not relevant to the question of whether in 
2020 they had similar characteristics to, and were being treated less favourably than, 
customers who would be eligible for a rate. 
And this is where the question of securitisation becomes relevant too. Its not clear to me 
whether Kensington is arguing that securitisation ought to be considered a characteristic of 
Mr and Mrs D. Or whether it is arguing that even if refusing them a rate might otherwise tend 
to show unfairness of the sort contemplated in MCOB 11.8.1 E, the fact that their mortgage 
has been securitised means such treatment is rendered fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. But Im not persuaded by either of these arguments. 
I think its clear from the wording of MCOB 11.8.1 E that the comparison envisaged is 
between customers of a firm taken as a whole. What matters is whether Mr and Mrs D, as 
individual mortgage customers, have similar characteristics to other individual customers of 
Kensington. And if they have similar characteristics to those other customers, but are being 
treated less favourably than those other customers, that may tend to show a breach of 
Principle 6 and unfair treatment in the individual case. 
I therefore do not think that the mere fact that the mortgage of one customer but not another 
has been securitised can of itself amount to a characteristic of either customer. 
Securitisation is a unilateral step taken in relation to an existing borrowers loan by a lender 
for the lenders prudential and commercial purposes, not a characteristic of the borrower 
themselves (as loan to value or credit score might be). 
In other words securitisation is something done to the borrower by the lender rather than a 
characteristic of the borrower. The lenders decision to securitise might be driven in part by 
its perception of the characteristics of the borrower, or at least the average characteristics of 
the part of the lenders business the borrower sits within. But if that is the case, it is those 
characteristics that may be relevant, not the securitisation itself. It is therefore necessary to 
identify what Mr and Mrs Ds characteristics are, and the extent to which they have similar 
characteristics to other customers of Kensington. I set out my conclusions on that in my 
provisional decision, reproduced above, and I havent seen anything to change my mind 
about that. 
And if the argument is that because it has securitised their mortgage, Kensingtons treatment 
of them becomes fair and reasonable, Im not persuaded by that either. I think the question 
of securitisation does not impact on whether or not Mr and Mrs D were treated fairly, or 
whether Kensington treated them less favourably than other customers whose current 
circumstances are the same or similar.
I understand that Kensington has decided to securitise the mortgage for commercial 
reasons. And it is entitled to make commercial decisions. But it also has obligations to treat 
its customers fairly. I have no role in Kensingtons commercial decisions; my role is limited to 
considering whether it has treated Mr and Mrs D fairly and reasonably in all the 
circumstances. And if I consider that it hasnt, and something needs to be done to put 
matters right, it is for Kensington to find a way of doing so consistent with its other 
obligations. I dont think such considerations carry substantial weight in determining whether 
Mr and Mrs D have been treated fairly. There may be occasions where a commercial decision a lender is entitled to take 
nevertheless results in unfair treatment in the particular circumstances of an individual 
customer. In my view this is one such case. Where a lender is entitled to take a commercial 
decision in the overall management of its business, it does not follow that doing so can never 
result in unfairness to an individual customer in an individual case. Nor does it follow that the 
lender cannot be held responsible for any such unfairness. 
Mr and Mrs D have no relationship with the securitisation vehicle. It is not their lender and 
does not own the legal title to their mortgage. Kensington was at the relevant time Mr and 
Mrs Ds lender. Its obligations to treat them fairly flow from the fact that it is their lender, 
regardless of any contractual arrangements it might separately have entered into with a third 
party. Those obligations do not in my view change its obligations to act fairly and reasonably 
to Mr and Mrs D. The question of securitisation is, it seems to me, more relevant as a 
question about the practicalities of putting matters right, not a question about the principle of 
whether Kensington has treated Mr and Mrs D fairly. 
Having considered everything afresh, and for the reasons Ive given in this and in my 
provisional decision, I remain of the view that it was not fair and reasonable in the particular 
circumstances of this case for Kensington to tell Mr and Mrs D that they were not eligible for 
a new rate. Acting fairly, it should have enquired into their circumstances and, given its 
obligations to treat customers fairly, understood that they were unable to move to another 
lender and that MCOB 11.8.1 E was therefore relevant their circumstances and should be 
taken into account. In my view the fair and reasonable thing would have been to recognise 
that they had similar characteristics to other borrowers who could access rates  and so it 
should have offered them no less favourable rates or terms than would have been offered to 
those other customers with similar characteristics.
Putting things right
In my view the fair and reasonable way to put things right is for Kensington to put Mr and 
Mrs D back in the position they would have been in had it fairly offered them an interest rate 
in 2020. 
Had Kensington treated Mr and Mrs D no less favourably than it would have treated other 
customers at that time, Mr and Mrs Ds, and then Mrs Ds alone, mortgage payments would 
have been lower since then. This means there have been overpayments each month since 
then  but, because this is an interest only mortgage, the balance would still be the same. 
The difference is the higher interest rate theyve paid, and the higher monthly payments that 
resulted. 
Mrs D says she would have wanted a five year fixed rate. Shes now explained that she 
doesnt plan to sell the property and is intending to use equity release to pay the capital in 
due course.
Kensington has now given me the list of rates it had available for existing customers at the 
time. It didnt have a five year rate, but it had a four year rate of 3.79%. Had it given what I 
consider to be fair and reasonable consideration to their application, and in particular to 
MCOB 11.8.1 E, its likely it would have agreed to charge Mr and Mrs D interest at a rate no 
less favourable than that offered to other customers with similar characteristics such as loan 
to value seeking a similar rate. 
The amount Mr and Mrs D, and then Mrs D, have overpaid since then is therefore the 
difference between their actual interest payments and the payments they would have made 
had that happened. It seems to me that Kensington can refund the overpayments Mr and Mrs D, and then Mrs D, 
have made since 2020 without impacting on the securitisation. That is simply a question of 
financial compensation  refunding overpayments  which Kensington can pay. It should add 
simple annual interest of 8% to the amount refunded. 
I accept its more difficult to resolve the situation going forward  not only because of the 
securitisation, but also because Kensington is no longer the owner of this mortgage. 
However, Kensington will need to find a way to ensure Mrs D is not out of pocket for the 
remainder of the period a rate should have been in place. 
There are likely to be various ways Kensington could give effect to this. It may be that the 
transfer agreement allows Kensington to require the new lender to implement ombudsman 
decisions  in which case, it can notify the new lender of the outcome of this complaint so 
the new lender can adjust the interest rate going forwards. 
Alternatively, if thats not possible and the new lender continues to charge Mrs D the existing 
variable rate, Kensington can compensate her by refunding the difference between the 
amount she pays the new lender and the amount she should have paid on a 3.79% fixed 
rate. This will require Kensington to pro-actively calculate and refund the overpayments each 
month for the remaining part of the four year period  its not possible to calculate this 
compensation in advance since the mortgage is on a variable rate which might increase 
(increasing the payments Mrs D has to make to the new lender and therefore the 
compensation Kensington has to pay her) over that time. There may be other alternatives 
too  it is for Kensington to find a way to give effect to my decision. 
Assuming a reasonable time to implement a fixed rate, the redress period should run for four 
years from 1 March 2020 to 29 February 2024. And so when we notify Kensington that Mrs 
D has accepted my decision  if she does  it will need to calculate and pay her the 
compensation for overpayments to date, and notify her how it intends to compensate her for 
the future part of the redress period. 
As Mrs Ds mortgage is now with a new lender, she will need to discuss with the new lender 
whether or not the new lender makes new interest rates available to existing customers. In 
the event that Mrs D agrees a new rate with the new lender to replace the fixed rate I am 
directing before February 2024, Kensingtons liability to compensate her for overpayments 
will come to an end. 
Finally, for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision. Im satisfied its fair and reasonable 
for Kensington to pay Mrs D £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by having to make higher payments than she would otherwise have had to make since 2020.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Kensington Mortgage Company Limited to: 
Calculate the difference between the amount Mrs D has paid each month since 
March 2020 and the amount she would have paid had she been given a fixed rate of 
3.79%; 
Refund each monthly overpayment to Mrs D, adding simple annual interest of 8%* to 
each refund running from date of payment to date of refund; 
Work with Mrs D and the new lender either so that the new lender reduces the interest rate from now until 29 February 2024 as if the fixed rate of 3.79% had been 
in place, or so that Kensington compensates Mrs D for the ongoing overpayments if 
the new lender does not do so. 
Pay Mrs D £500 compensation.
*Kensington may deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my award as required by HMRC, 
but it should tell Mrs D what it has deducted so she can reclaim the tax if shes entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman