DRN-2649306
The complaint
S complains that it got poor service from Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) when opening a 
business account.
What happened
In June 2020, S applied for a new business account online. S owner already had a personal 
account at Barclays for many years. Barclays wanted to confirm her ID and address before 
opening the account  at an appointment in the branch. They offered an appointment for 4 
November 2020.
S complained that the process took too long  Barclays advertised a six-week timescale. 
And, as S owner was already known to Barclays, she couldnt see why this was needed. 
She was busy in running her new business and found the whole experience frustrating.
Barclays said the pandemic had caused them a lot of extra work  and business managers 
diaries were full. And they wanted to see the ID and verify the address of the business owner 
as part of its regulatory obligations  in connection with fraud and financial crime. They 
rejected S complaint.
S brought its complaint to this service. Our investigator said that Barclays needed to make 
the checks as part of their processes in opening new accounts. Barclays were very busy at 
the time  because of the pandemic, their business managers were dealing with a lot of 
applications for Bounce Back Loans, so their diaries were full. But before the arranged 
meeting in November 2020, Barclays had tried to contact S on six occasions to offer her 
other appointments  due to cancellations. But she hadnt responded or wasnt able to make 
the meetings. She noted that S didnt attend the appointment on 4 November 2020  due, in 
part to some confusion over the time. But equally, S was advised of the date and time when 
she was contacted in July 2020  so she shouldve known the details. She thought that 
Barclays had acted reasonably.
S asked that its complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can sense S frustrations. S owner had been a personal customer of Barclays for 35 years, 
so didnt see why she had to attend a meeting. She said Barclays claimed to be able to open 
business accounts in six weeks  but she was only offered an appointment in November 
2020  more than four months after its online application. 
Looking at the first point  its a sad fact that theres a lot of financial fraud and crime. And so 
- all banks, including Barclays, must make sure they have up to date ID and address 
verification in their records for all customers  even those that have banked with them a long 
time. I appreciate that sounds strange, and it may have been frustrating for S  but its a fact 
that they have to comply with rules and regulations in that way. So  Barclays were correct 
in asking S to go to the branch with the necessary documents. Ive seen from the emails S 
was sent that Barclays detailed what the documents were that were needed.
On the question of timing. Barclays, like several other banks were dealing with a lot of 
applications for Bounce Back Loans  this meant their business managers were very busy 
and their diaries were booked up. And  it was a business manager which needed to meet S 
owner and confirm her ID and address. So  unfortunately this meant that the appointment 
was a long time after the initial online application. But to be fair to Barclays, they did try to 
contact S on six occasions to offer it earlier slots. Ive seen the text messages to this effect. 
But S either couldnt make them or didnt respond. And  I note that she didnt go to the 
appointment on 4 November 2020. I can see that the day before, Barclays emailed her with 
the wrong time  but also, they did contact her again with the correct time. S then said it 
couldnt make it due to the confusion over the time. But  the actual time and date had been 
set up in July 2020  so S wouldve known the agreed time then.
So  while I can see S was frustrated by the delays, I think on balance, and in the context of 
the difficulties at the time - Barclays did all they could here to help S. And, while I sense S 
owner will be disappointed by my decision, I wont be asking Barclays to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman