DRN-3495433
The complaint
Mr S is complaining that a software bug in his trading account with Interactive Brokers (UK) 
Ltd (IBUK) led to him missing out on significant profits.
What happened
Mr S held a cash account with IBUK. On Friday 5 June 2020 he asked to upgrade this to a 
margin account. The upgrade was successful and Mr S made an internal transfer from one 
account into this account on 7 June. His intention was to invest in oil stocks on 8 June 
because it was clear to him that the prices were going to increase substantially. But when he 
came to invest, his account showed a buying power of zero  he wasnt able to use either 
his own cash or the margin that should have also been available to him.
Mr S complained to IBUK about the loss of investment opportunities which he thought had 
been caused by a software bug. He said hed have made significant gains on oil stocks and 
would then have been able to invest these gains into other well-performing companies. 
IBUKs initial response to Mr S was simply that the account upgrade hadnt been completed 
by 8 June 2020. Mr S wasnt happy with this, so he brought the matter to our service. At this 
point, IBUK explained that there had been no software bug - Mr Ss buying power had been 
reduced to zero because the previous days equity with loan value (PD ELV) on his 
account was too low for the trades he wanted to make.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said IBUK had applied their 
terms and conditions consistently and fairly  he said Mr S hadnt had enough funds in his 
account at the relevant point in time. Mr S remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman 
to review his complaint  so its come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and recognising Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, Im not 
upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
This complaint is primarily about timing issues. Mr S wanted to trade on a particular day, and 
couldnt. By the next day, everything was resolved, but  Mr S says  by this point the 
opportunity had passed. 
Id like to start by saying that Mr S asked for the upgrade of his account on a Friday. IBUKs 
terms and conditions say that the upgrade can take one to three working days  and Mr S 
was aware of this. So there was no requirement for IBUK to have the account ready by the 
Monday  and it wouldnt have been reasonable for Mr S to rely on being able to trade in this 
account on that day.
However, I can see Mr S thought the account was ready on Monday 8 June  so I appreciate 
hed have been disappointed when he couldnt use it. Ive looked further into what happened 
as I dont think IBUKs explanations to Mr S were clear. Having done so, I dont think there 
was a software bug  and I dont think IBUK acted unfairly. Ive explained further below. 
Mr S signed the customer agreement for the upgraded account on 7 June 2020  so its 
understandable that he thought hed be able to use all the features of it the next day. But the 
upgraded account requires a customer to maintain sufficient margin in their account  that 
figure being calculated by IBUK. The terms and conditions allow IBUK to reject any order if 
the account balance isnt enough to meet the margin requirements at the time. In looking at 
this complaint, Ive considered what the margin requirements were for Mr S to buy units on 
8 June 2020  and then how IBUK were calculating his available margin.
Margin requirement
When Mr S tried to buy units on 8 June 2020, the system said he needed to have available 
margin of around 22,000 euros. This figure seemed to be largely unchanged by the number 
of units Mr S wanted to buy. The reason for this is that the upgrade to the account meant he 
needed to have margin to cover the securities held in the account. Mr S had bought these 
securities with cash, while his account had been a cash only account. But once they were in 
a margin account, there was an associated margin requirement. The account became a 
margin account on Sunday 7 June  so by 8 June 2020 Mr S needed available margin to 
cover the securities. The 22,000 euros Mr S was told he needed to buy additional units was 
actually mostly needed to cover his existing positions.
Existing margin on 8 June 2020
When looking at a customers available margin, IBUK uses the lesser of the current equity 
with loan value or the PD ELV. In Mr Ss case, the lower figure was the PD ELV. The 
PD ELV is calculated at a snapshot in time, taken at 16:15 Eastern Time on the previous 
day. Ordinarily, this looks at the value of cash and securities. But on 8 June, IBUKs system 
was calculating Mr Ss available margin based solely on the amount of cash in his account. 
IBUK have told me thats because it was a cash account up until 7 June, and the PD ELV 
only updates on working days.
The only way the PD ELV can be increased after the snapshot has been taken is by 
depositing cash into the account. Mr S deposited 10,000 euros on 4 June, which was 
available in the account on 8 June. This immediately increased his available margin from 
around 4,000 euros to 14,000 euros  but not enough to meet the 22,000 euro margin 
requirement. 
Mismatch and impact
IBUKs system appears to have created a mismatch in Mr Ss account  on 8 June 2020 he 
needed margin to cover securities in the account but the system didnt count those securities 
as part of his available margin. 
Whilst this might initially seem unfair, IBUKs system operated as it should have. And, as I 
mentioned above, IBUK tell their customers that it takes one to three business days to 
upgrade an account. By 9 June 2020, Mr Ss available margin reflected his cash and 
securities and he was able to trade as he wanted. This was two business days after Mr S 
requested the upgrade. So I cant say IBUK acted unfairly. My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint about Interactive Brokers (UK) 
Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman