DRN-3592857
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society didnt inform him that the interest rate on 
his ISA account was 0.05%.
This complaint is brought to this service by Mr Fs representative. For ease of reference, Ill 
refer to Mr F primarily, and wont refer to the representative unless necessary to do so.
What happened
Mr F had held savings accounts with Nationwide for many years. In September 2020, Mr F 
went into a Nationwide branch and arranged to roll over his cash ISA into a new year-long 
cash ISA which he believed was paying interest at a rate of 0.5%. However, in September 
2021, went Mr F went to roll over the cash ISA again, he discovered that the interest rate on 
his cash ISA for the year just gone had been 0.05% and not 0.5% as hed believed. Mr F 
wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mr Fs complaint. They explained that notice of the reduction of the 
interest rate on the cash ISA to 0.05% had been given to all Nationwide members via 
various channels, and they didnt feel their branch staff would have misled Mr F about the 
interest rate. So, they didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Mr F wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that it was 
reasonably possible, from the information and evidence available to them, to fairly conclude 
that Nationwide didnt inform Mr F about the reduction in the interest rate, or that Nationwide 
misled Mr F about the interest rate in any way, and so they also didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr F remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I note that Mr F was sent a letter in the post in May 2020 which explained 
that the interest rate offered on the ISA product he held was being lowered. Mr Fs 
representative has challenged whether it can be proven that Mr F ever received this letter. 
However, Nationwide have been able to confirm that it was sent to the address Mr F has 
provided to this service, and so Im satisfied that it was both posted and addressed correctly. 
Additionally, while I acknowledge that Mr F may not have received the letter, this service 
wouldnt hold a business accountable for the non-delivery of a correctly addressed sent 
letter, given that the delivery of that letter by a postal service isnt something over which a 
business has any control. It also wouldnt be expected that businesses would send all letters 
by recorded delivery, as Mr Fs representative has intimated, as to do so would be financially 
prohibitive, given the large volume of mail that businesses such as Nationwide send.
Regardless of whether Mr F did or didnt receive the letter referenced above, information 
about the interest rate on the ISA would have been available to Mr F when he visited branch 
to roll the ISA over for another year. I wasnt present in branch when Mr F rolled over his ISA 
year, and so I dont know for certain what was or wasnt said. But I havent seen anything in 
the information or evidence available to me to suggest that Nationwide misled Mr F in any 
way here, or withheld information about the interest rate from him. 
Mr Fs representative feels that because Mr F had previously held his money in an ISA 
product paying the highest interest rate possible for many years, that Nationwide should 
have prompted Mr F to move his savings to a different savings vehicle, rather than allow him 
to hold the money for a year in an ISA which now paid a lower rate of interest than 
alternative available products. And Mr Fs representative has explained that he had a 
telephone conversation with a Nationwide staff member who admitted that something had 
gone wrong in regard to Mr F not being encouraged to move his savings to a different 
product that paid better interest.
I can appreciate Mr Fs representatives position here. Unfortunately, theres no recording of 
the telephone call in question to enable it to be confirmed as to what was discussed. But 
Nationwide did obtain the recollections of the staff member in question, who stated that they 
have no memory of accepting that anything had gone wrong. Additionally, it must be 
reiterated that Nationwide have an obligation to make the relevant information about their 
products available to Mr F, and I dont feel that I can reasonably conclude from the 
information available to me that they didnt do this in this instance. 
Ultimately, it was Mr Fs responsibility to understand the nature of the product that he was 
instructing Nationwide to hold his savings in, including the interest rate offered on that 
product, which would have been available to Mr F on all product literature and which should 
have been confirmed to Mr F by Nationwide if a correct process was followed  which as 
explained, I feel that I have no compelling reason to believe wasnt the case. As such, I dont 
feel that Nationwide can be said to have acted unfairly towards Mr F by rolling the ISA 
product over for another year, as per Mr Fs instruction.
Mr Fs representative may feel Im accepting Nationwides version of events over his and Mr 
Fs testimonies here. But I hope that it will be understood that this service is impartial, and 
that as such I havent accepted one parties testimony at the expense of the other. 
Instead, I dont feel that it can be reasonably concluded from the information available to me, 
including all available testimonies, that Nationwide did anything wrong here. And rather than 
an unfair act having taken place, it seems at least equally plausible to me that for whatever 
reason, and through no fault of Nationwides, Mr F might simply not have recognised or 
understood that the interest rate being offered on the ISA was now lower than before.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr F was wanting, but it follows from all the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Nationwide to take any further action. I hope 
that Mr F and his representative will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made 
the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 Paul Cooper
Ombudsman