DRN-3790474
The complaint
Mr A complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) unfairly dealt 
with his claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in respect of a 
timeshare product he purchased using a credit card with them.
What happened
In or around October 2019, Mr A attended a meeting with a timeshare supplier - Ill refer to 
the supplier as A. During that meeting, Mr A agreed to purchase a timeshare product from 
A at a cost of £13,950. He says he paid a deposit of £4,185 using a credit card in his sole 
name - issued by AESEL. In addition to the purchase contract, Mr A entered into a finance 
agreement with another business specifically to pay the balance due for the purchase of the 
timeshare product.
In or around April 2020, Mr M became aware that A had entered into a liquidation process. 
As a result, he initiated a chargeback claim with AESEL for the deposit hed paid using his 
credit card. AESEL agreed Mr As claim and refunded £4,185 to his account.
In June 2020, Mr A sent a letter to A notifying them of his intention to terminate his timeshare 
contract with them. He said that as a consequence of the liquidation process, the contract 
had been breached and they were no longer able to arrange holidays.
Shortly after, Mr A received an response from the liquidators of A. They said Mr A still 
retained the same status of ownership as you held prior to the Company going into 
liquidation, and your rights in this respect are not prejudiced. They further said they were in 
discussions to appoint a new club manager which would enable Mr A to use his entitlement 
under the timeshare contract and any request to terminate the agreement would need to be 
discussed with that manager.
In June 2020, Mr A told AESEL he wanted to initiate a claim under section 75 of the CCA 
(S75). He completed a claim form dated 3 July 2020 and submitted this to AESEL. In his 
claim, he said:
there was a breach of contract as A wasnt able to provide the goods and services as 
they are in liquidation;
the credit agreement (with the finance provider) and the timeshare contracts were 
frustrated due to the liquidation of A; and
A had misrepresented the timeshare product as having a resale value which has 
provided not to be the case.
Mr A sought a full refund of monies expended and a cancellation/settlement of the current 
finance agreement, together with interest at 8%. This included five payments of £126.89 
hed paid under the repayment direct debit instruction associated with the loan provided by 
the finance agreement.
Shortly after, Mr A received a letter confirming the appointment of a new club manager for 
the timeshare product hed purchased.
In or around October 2020, Mr A complained to AESEL as he hadnt received a response 
following submission of his S75 claim. AESEL apologised for the delay caused by high claim 
volumes as a result of the global pandemic. They explained there are no regulated 
timeframes for [S75] claims.
In or around January 2022, AESEL wrote to Mr A. They said, we consider that you have 
evidenced a breach of contract [] following the liquidation of [A]. In settlement, AESEL 
offered to pay £634.45 equating to the five monthly repayments Mr A had made under the 
finance agreement for the timeshare product. Mr A wasnt willing to accept AESELs offer. 
He was unhappy the timeshare and finance agreements remained active and told AESEL he 
was seeking legal advice. 
Mr A decided to refer his complaint to this service. Having considered all the relevant 
information available, one of our investigators didnt think AESEL needed to do anything 
more. They thought the offer made was fair.
Mr A didnt agree with our investigators findings and asked that his complaint be referred to 
an ombudsman. To support his complaint, Mr A provided a document entitled Summary 
grounds of complaint against Amex []. This document included detailed allegations of:
Breach of contract;
Misrepresentation of the timeshare product by A; and
Unfairness of the debtor-creditor relationship under section 140A of the CCA 
(S140A).
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, Mr As complaint has been passed to me to 
consider further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook means Im required to take into account; relevant law and 
regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
S75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Mr A paid 
a deposit for the timeshare product with a credit card issued by AESEL, so it isnt in dispute 
that S75 applies here. This means that Mr A is afforded the protection offered to borrowers 
like him under those provisions. And as a result, Ive taken this section into account when 
deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
However, while I acknowledge the detailed and extensive information provided by Mr A, 
together with the associated allegations and arguments, it appears AESEL have already 
accepted Mr As claim that there was a breach of contract here. So, I dont think I need to 
make a finding on the claims under S75 and S140A. 
Its important to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution Service 
(ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. The complaint being considered here 
specifically relates to whether I believe AESELs treatment of Mr As claim was fair and 
reasonable given all the evidence and information available. While the decision of an 
ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we do not provide a legal 
service. 
In accepting Mr As claim, AESELs liability under S75 is normally limited to reimbursing Mr A 
for any outlay or directly associated costs (where causation can be established) in relation to 
the purchase that was funded by them. Here, thats the purchase of the timeshare product. 
Mr As total outlay appears to consist of:The deposit payment of £4,185;
Five monthly repayments of £126.89 (total £634.45).
It appears Mr A cancelled the finance repayment direct debit after the fifth payment, so no 
further repayments have been made. And Ive not been provided with any evidence 
suggesting Mr A made any other payment specifically relating to the purchase of the 
timeshare contract.
I dont believe its within the reach of S75 to require AESEL to cancel the timeshare contract. 
That wouldnt be within their control. Ultimately, whilst S75 does allow for a like claim to be 
made against AESEL, this is a financial claim for the costs directly attributed to the product 
or service being purchased  here thats the timeshare contract.
Further, while I acknowledge Mr As arguments that A and the finance provider were 
associated parties under the transaction, there is nothing within the purchase contract that 
required Mr A to take up the finance agreement that he chose to. So, I believe the finance 
agreement is a separate contract to which AESEL have no connection under the CCA. And 
because of that, I cant reasonably ask AESEL to take steps to cancel that agreement or 
reimburse Mr A for anything owed under it. 
Ultimately, its for Mr A to decide whether or not to accept AESELs offer. But I cant say that 
their treatment of his claim was unfair or unreasonable. And in the circumstances, I wont be 
asking AESEL to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman