DRN-4058869
The complaint
Mr B complains about the customer service he received from Vitality Health Limited after he 
looked into making a claim on a private medical insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Ive set out only a brief 
summary of what I think are the key events.
Mr B held a personal private medical insurance policy. In February 2022, Mr B began to 
suffer from worrying symptoms which suggested that he might have cancer. So he got in 
touch with Vitalitys virtual GP service. He says he had some difficulty in getting through. And 
when he did speak to the virtual GP, the GP felt he did have symptoms which could point to 
cancer. But the virtual GP told Mr B that his policy didnt cover screening tests and that he 
should speak to his own GP for referral. 
Unfortunately, Mr Bs GP surgery was closed for around 10 days. When it reopened, Mr B 
underwent the necessary tests. Thankfully, his symptoms were found to be down to injury, 
rather than cancer.
Mr B was unhappy with the service hed received and in April 2022, he contacted Vitality. At 
this point, he was told that he could access a discounted screening service. As this 
contradicted the information Mr B had been given before, he made a complaint. However, 
there was a delay of a few days before Vitality called him back. 
Vitality didnt provide its final response to Mr Bs complaint until October 2022, significantly 
outside of the regulators complaint-handling timeframes. By this time, Mr B had already 
asked us to look into his complaint. Vitality acknowledged that thered been some delays in 
calling Mr B back. But it considered that the virtual GP had made an appropriate 
recommendation to direct Mr B to his GP. And while Vitality hadnt told Mr B about the 
discounted screening service in February 2022, it didnt think this was suitable for someone 
with active symptoms of a suspected condition.
Ultimately, our investigator didnt think Vitality needed to take any action. While he 
acknowledged the lack of call-backs for a period of around a week had been frustrating, 
overall, he didnt think Vitality had caused Mr B any material distress and inconvenience.
Mr B disagreed. In brief, he referred to Vitalitys acceptance of partial fault and its failure to 
adhere to the regulators timelines. He felt that Vitality could reflect upon and amend its 
customer relations.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, I dont think Vitality needs to take any 
action and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So 
Ive taken those rules into account, amongst other things, when considering Mr Bs 
complaint. 
The lack of referral to diagnostic screening
Its clear that Mr B was suffering from very worrying symptoms when he got in touch with 
Vitalitys GP. I dont doubt that the fact it took him a while to get though to the GP added to 
his worries. 
Im not a medical expert and so it isnt for me to determine whether Mr B was given the right 
medical advice. But based on the information the virtual GP was given, they felt Mr B should 
see his own GP for tests and examination. This appears to have been a reasonable position 
for the GP to have taken, based on their expert knowledge and Mr Bs symptoms. Its 
unfortunate Mr B wasnt able to see his own GP immediately, but I dont think thats down to 
any failure on Vitalitys part. I was pleased to read that Mr B wasnt diagnosed with cancer 
and I do hope hes now made a full recovery from his injury.
Vitality acknowledges that it didnt tell Mr B about the discounted screening service in 
February 2022. It might have been helpful had it done so. But Vitality says that this 
screening service wouldnt have been suitable for someone displaying active symptoms. And 
I havent seen any compelling evidence that even if Mr B had seen the screening service in 
February 2022, he couldve undergone full diagnostic testing and been given a diagnosis 
sooner than he was. This means I dont think any failure on Vitalitys part to highlight the 
availability of the discounted service to him caused him any actual loss or material distress.
Vitalitys customer service
Vitality accepts it didnt provide Mr B was the level of service it should have done. Its clear 
there was a delay in calling Mr B back when hed requested it in April 2022. Its unfortunate 
that a few days went by before Vitality attempted to call Mr B back (and Id like to assure Mr 
B that Ive seen call notes which indicate that Vitality did try to call him). And its also 
unfortunate and a failing on Vitalitys part that it doesnt look like further calls were attempted 
until Mr B requested cancellation of the policy in May 2022.
It's clear too that even after Mr B formally complained to Vitality about the service hed 
received, it didnt provide a final response to his complaint for around four months. I have 
borne in mind though that Vitality did let Mr B know about his right to bring a complaint to our 
service eight weeks after hed made the complaint  in line with the regulators rules. Mr B 
accordingly did so. Therefore, I dont think I could reasonably find that Vitalitys delay in 
responding fully to Mr Bs concerns prevented him from bringing a complaint to us earlier 
than he did. 
I do accept that there were failings in the service Vitality provided to Mr B. I dont doubt that 
this caused him frustration and inconvenience. But in order for me to find that Vitality should 
pay compensation to Mr B, Id need to be persuaded that any failings had caused Mr B 
material distress and inconvenience, over and above the frustration of making a claim and 
complaint. And in this case, although Vitality didnt call Mr B back as soon as it shouldve 
done in April 2022, at that point, he had already received confirmation that he didnt have 
cancer and he wasnt waiting for any results etc. from Vitality. So while I appreciate Mr B 
was upset by Vitalitys service, I dont think I could fairly or reasonably direct Vitality to pay 
compensation in the specific circumstances of this complaint.Overall, I do sympathise with Mr Bs position, as I appreciate he went though a worrying 
time. However, Im not directing Vitality to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman