DRN-2939520
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited  trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance (MBFS), following the return of her 
car.
What happened
In December 2016, Miss W was supplied with a new car through a Personal Contract Plan 
(PCP) hire purchase agreement with MBFS. The agreement was for 48 months, with 
monthly rental payments of £265, and an optional purchase payment of £12,700.
Miss W decided to return the car when the agreement came to an end. The car was 
collected on 18 December 2020, and the collection agent visually inspected the car for 
damage. Miss W said she agreed there was damage to the alloy wheels and a small dent on 
the bonnet. She said the agent agreed these were inside the guidelines and she wouldnt be 
charged.
She said she didnt see the agents report on the day of the inspection. She said he read out 
what was on the report and she confirmed her agreement, as she couldnt physically sign 
because of Covid 19 restrictions.
She said when she later received the report, she was surprised that it included scratches on 
both front wings, as these were never mentioned to her. And she said the report didnt 
mention the dent on the bonnet.
She was also surprised that the report said the log book wasnt present as she had provided 
this to the agent.
She said the second inspection report had no reference to the scratches on the wings, or the 
missing log book. She said this report now included a dent on the left side front door, and a 
scratch on the front bumper. She said none of these were present when the car was 
collected. She said she was now also being charged for the dent on the bonnet, but she 
believed it was within the guidelines so she shouldnt be charged for this.
She provided photographs she said showed there was no damage to the door or the bumper 
when it was with her. She said the second inspection took place a few weeks after the car 
was collected, and the car had been driven 129 miles since then. 
Miss W complained to MBFS  she wasnt happy that both reports were different, and she 
said she wasnt aware a second inspection would be carried out. 
MBFS said a second inspection was done because it was dark and wet at the time of the 
first inspection.
MBFS said the second inspection showed up the damage to the front wheels, and the 
scratch to the front bumper, both of which had been noted on the first inspection. They said 
the second inspection also identified damage to the bonnet and to the left side front door. 
They said the total cost of damage identified in the second inspection was £950. They said 
their agent had confirmed that the car wasnt damaged whilst in transit, or while it was in 
their possession.
They also said theyd considered the photographs supplied by Miss W but said they werent 
clear enough to rely on.
Miss W was unhappy with MBFSs response, and she brought her complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator said that, from the evidence shed seen, the damage MBFS were charging 
for was present on the car at the second inspection.
The investigator also said there was less than three weeks between the first inspection at 
Miss Ws address and the second inspection. She said she thought it was more likely that 
the damage wouldve occurred in the four years Miss W had the car for.
So she didnt think MBFS had done anything wrong by charging her for the damage.
Miss W didnt agree.  So shes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Miss W was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is 
a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints 
about it.
Ive seen a copy of the hire agreement, which Miss W signed on 17 December 2016. Under 
the heading Vehicle Return Standards, the agreement confirmed when the vehicle is 
returned to us, a Vehicle Return Standard Inspection will be carried out by trained 
technicians at the nominated Defleet Centre. It goes on to explain what is, and isnt, 
considered acceptable under the VRS.
Im aware that MBFS provide customers with another copy of their VRS, six months before 
the end of any agreement. Its also available online. Given all of the above, Im satisfied that 
Miss W shouldve been reasonably aware that the car would be inspected away from her 
address. 
I note that MBFS said the second inspection was done because of the poor conditions 
during the first inspection. But Im satisfied it was reasonable for them to conduct a second 
inspection at their Defleet Centre, after the car was returned to them, regardless of the 
conditions during the first inspection. And I dont think that an inspection taking place at the 
point of collection changes this.Turning to the damage, Ive looked at the video and the photos provided by MBFS.
Im satisfied that the damage to the wheels is clear and is chargeable under the VRS. There 
is damage to the spoke of the left side front wheel, and to the rim of the right side front 
wheel.
Im satisfied that the damage to the bumper is chargeable. There is scratching on the 
underside of the bumper on the left side, and the scratches are greater than the 50mm 
allowed in the VRS. 
The dent on the bonnet is visible, more clearly in the video than in the photos. The dent on 
the door is more difficult to see, but is also more visible in the video provided by MBFS. Im 
satisfied its reasonable for MBFS to charge for both of these. This is because the VRS says 
dents on swage lines or folder edges. Dents on high profile panels ,i.e. Bonnets/wheel 
arches etc., are not acceptable.
Miss W has supplied photos to show there was no visible damage. Whilst they dont show 
any signs of damage, they arent clear enough to be conclusive. The photo of the bumper 
and the front of the car are taken from above, so dont show the scratching on the underside 
of the bumper that can be seen in MBFSs photos. The dents on the bonnet and the door are 
visible on the video supplied by MBFS. So Ive relied on the close-up photographs and the 
videos provided by MBFS. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the damage MBFS is charging Miss W for was 
more likely than not to have been present when the car was collected from her. This is for 
the same reasons as our investigator  the damage was more likely than not to have 
happened in the four years and 10,000 miles when she had it, rather than the 129 miles it 
travelled and 19 days it was with MBFS.
 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Miss W, but I think that MBFS acted 
reasonably by charging her for the damage to the car, and I wont be asking them to amend 
their invoice.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint about Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited  trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman