DRN-3733122
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that AWP P&C SA has turned down a cancellation claim they made 
on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M hold travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged bank account.
Mr and Mrs M were due to fly and stay abroad. But a few days before they were due to 
travel, their airline cancelled their flights. This meant they couldnt travel as planned and they 
had to cancel their overseas accommodation. So they made a cancellation claim for their 
irrecoverable accommodation costs.
AWP turned down the claim. It said the circumstances of it werent covered by the policy 
terms.
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with AWPs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. They noted that the policy didnt specifically exclude cancellation claims resulting 
from flight cancellation by an airline. So they felt a reasonable person would expect the claim 
to be covered. They also felt the policy branding was misleading as to the level of cover it 
provided.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the 
policy terms and conditions covered Mr and Mrs Ms situation. So she thought it had been 
fair for AWP to turn down the claim.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They said they thought any reasonable consumer would believe 
that expensive travel insurance would cover the cost of cancelled accommodation when the 
cancellation was through no fault of their own. And they didnt think the policy specifically 
excluded their situation.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. I must make it clear that this decision will only 
consider whether AWP handled Mr and Mrs Ms claim fairly. It doesnt provide the bank 
account which this insurance is offered through and it wasnt responsible for the sale of the 
policy. If Mr and Mrs M feel they were misled as to the cover the insurance would provide, 
theyd need to make a complaint about that particular issue to their bank.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M, I think it was fair for AWP to 
turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr and Mrs Ms policy and the circumstances of their claim to decide whether 
AWP treated them fairly. 
I understand that the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Ms flights by their airline was completely 
outside of their control. However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers 
are entitled to decide what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for 
a policy. Therefore, AWPs obligations under its contract with Mr and Mrs M are limited by 
the terms, conditions and exclusions which are set out in the policy.
It's common ground that Mr and Mrs Ms trip was effectively cancelled because of the 
cancellation of their flights by their airline. So I think there are two potentially relevant 
sections of the policy which could apply to the circumstances of their claim. First, the 
cancellation section of the policy and second, travel disruption cover. Ill look at the listed, 
specific, insured events which are covered by these two sections of the policy in turn.
Cancellation cover
Section 1 of the contract sets out the list of defined, specific events AWP covers if a 
policyholder has to cancel or cut short their trip. Ive set out these events below:
1. The death, bodily injury or illness of:
a. You
b. Any person with whom you are travelling or have arranged to travel with;
c. A relative of you or any person with whom you are travelling or have arranged to travel 
with; 
d. Any person with whom you have arranged to reside temporarily; or
e. Your business colleague.
2. You or any person with whom you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being held 
in quarantine by order or another requirement of a government or public authority, based on 
their suspicion that you or they, specifically, have been exposed to a contagious disease 
(including an epidemic or a pandemic disease such as COVID-19). 
3. You or any person with whom you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being 
called for jury service attendance or being called as a witness at a Court of Law.
4. Compulsory redundancy of you or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to 
travel with which qualifies for payment under current United Kingdom redundancy payment 
legislation after a continuous working period of two years with the same employer and at the 
time of booking the trip there was no reason to believe anyone would be made redundant.
5. You or any person with whom you are travelling or have arranged to travel with are a 
member of the Armed Forces, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance Services or employees of 
a Government Department and have your/their authorised leave cancelled for operational 
reasons, provided that such cancellation or curtailment could not reasonably have been 
expected at the time this insurance is purchased by you.
6. The Police requesting you to remain at or return to your home due to serious damage to 
your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood, subsidence, malicious persons or 
theft.
7. Medical complications as a result of your pregnancy or the pregnancy of anyone you have 
arranged to travel or stay with during the trip.
8. A government directive prohibiting all travel to, or recommending evacuation from, the country or area you were planning to visit or were staying in provided such a directive came 
into force after you have left the United Kingdom.
9. You or any person with whom you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being 
refused boarding of the public transport on which you are booked to travel, on the order of 
any government, public authority or carrier, due to you or they displaying symptoms of a 
contagious disease (including an epidemic or a pandemic disease such as COVID-19).
In my view, AWP has clearly set out the insured cancellation events its chosen to cover. Mr 
and Mrs Ms trip wasnt cancelled for any of the reasons Ive listed above. And I note too that 
section 1 also includes a list of specific things that AWP doesnt cover. One of these is:
Any claim arising from a reason not listed in the what is covered section.
As such then, I find the contract terms make it sufficiently clear that AWP only covers 
cancellation or curtailment claims if they arise because of one of the specific, listed reasons 
its chosen to cover. And therefore, I dont think AWP acted unfairly when it concluded that 
the claim wasnt covered by the cancellation section of the policy.
Travel Disruption cover
Section 3 of the policy sets out the Travel Disruption cover AWP has chosen to provide. The 
Travel Delay part of this section of the contract includes cover if a policyholder has to 
abandon their trip. The policy says:
The benefit provided below is intended to provide compensation if you are delayed at your 
point of departure and is only applicable if you have travelled there and checked-in. If you 
have not travelled to your departure point you will not be covered, even if you have checked-
in online.
It goes on to set out the specific, insured events covered by this part of the policy. These 
are:
1. A delay of your pre-booked public transport resulting in you departing at least 12 hours 
after your original scheduled departure time; or
2. You being involuntarily denied boarding because there are too many passengers for the 
seats available and no suitable alternative flight could be provided within 12 hours; or
3. Abandonment of your trip following 12 hours of delay at your first international departure 
point in the UK.
In this case, Mr and Mrs M werent delayed at their international departure point. Neither had 
they travelled to the airport before their flights were cancelled by their airline. Instead, their 
flights were cancelled a few days before they were due to travel. So I dont find it was unfair 
for AWP to conclude that their claim wasnt covered under this section of the policy either.
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ms position, as I appreciate theyve been left out of pocket. 
But I dont think there is any section of the policy which covers their situation. And I dont find 
there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could direct AWP to meet their costs. So 
overall, I think it was fair for AWP to turn down Mr and Mrs Ms claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman