DRN-4146244
The complaint
X is complaining that Wealthify Limited asked them about a County Court Judgement (CCJ) 
when they applied to open an account.
What happened
X applied for an account with Wealthify in January 2023.
Wealthify contacted X to ask about a CCJ that they said had come up on the credit checks 
they carried out after receiving Xs application.
X found this very upsetting, and complained to Wealthify. X made a subject access request 
(SAR) for all the information Wealthify held about them. And they asked for all their personal 
information to be deleted.
Wealthify sent X their final response letter. They said, in summary, that their checks flagged 
a CCJ from May 2017. They didnt think they were incorrect to act on the information they 
received. They confirmed that they had processed a SAR, and had now removed all of Xs 
personal data from their records.
X brought their complaint to us. They said that a CCJ had been registered in May 2017 but it 
was removed. They were also unhappy with the language used in the final response letter, 
when Wealthify said they appreciated X had worked to remove the record of the CCJ.
Our investigator didnt uphold Xs complaint. X asked for their complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman for review and a decision. So, their complaint has now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Xs complaint. Ill explain why.
CCJs are a matter of public record and Ive seen evidence that there was a CCJ recorded 
against X in May 2017, which looks to be the same CCJ Wealthify asked X about. So, I think 
Wealthify did receive details about this CCJ from the credit reference agencies they use, as 
part of their usual application checks. I dont think Wealthify made a mistake when they 
asked X about the CCJ. X had made an application to them, and so its not unreasonable for 
them to ask X questions about their credit history.
X says the CCJ was recorded in error and was removed by the Court. Theyve provided a 
copy of their credit report from 2021 which doesnt show the CCJ. But there could be various 
reasons why the CCJ that showed in Wealthifys checks isnt showing on the credit report X 
provided. I think this is something X would need to ask the credit reference agency they 
obtained the credit report from about. 
X was unhappy with the language used in Wealthifys final response letter about X working 
to remove the CCJ. I dont think Wealthify implied that X had paid to have it removed or 
intended any discourtesy through the language they used here.
Im sorry X has been distressed by Wealthify asking about the CCJ. But I dont think 
Wealthify have done anything wrong here. Theyve confirmed theyve now deleted all the 
personal information they hold about X. And Im satisfied they dont need to do anything else 
to resolve Xs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Xs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2023.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman