DRN-3353711
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C's complaint is about the handling of a claim under their defective title 
indemnity insurance policy with Zurich Insurance PLC.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C purchased their property in 1999. Part of the land was apparently obtained by 
adverse possession by previous owners who were granted possessory title of it by the 
Land Registry in 1989/90. The property was sold to another party in 1997, who in turn sold it 
to Mr and Mrs C. 
In 2010, one of Mr and Mrs Cs neighbours tried to take possession of part of the land that 
was held with possessory title to make access to his property. Mr and Mrs C obtained some 
advice from a solicitor at the time and as a result of that advice had the land registry 
documents changed, to show they owned the land with title absolute. They were able to do 
so, as 12 years had passed since the possessory title was granted.
In 2012, the neighbour sold their property to another person who alleged Mr and Mrs C were 
occupying land he had purchased.  He removed a boundary fence belonging to Mr and    
Mrs C. 
In 2014, Mr and Mrs C became aware of the policy with Zurich. The policy had been taken 
out by the previous owners in 1997 and the benefit of the policy passed to Mr and Mrs C 
when they bought the land. The policy covers land that has defective title (i.e. that the seller 
doesnt have proof of absolute ownership at the time of the sale, as in this case) and 
provides indemnity in the event of anyone else establishing ownership of any such defective 
land.
Zurich accepted the claim under the policy and agreed to fund legal fees with the solicitor Mr 
and Mrs C had previously obtained advice from in 2010. The neighbour issued proceedings 
against Mr and Mr C regarding the disputed land in June 2017. However, in 2017 Zurich 
reviewed the claim and said the claim should not have been accepted, as it was not in fact 
covered under the policy. Zurich says that the title was defective when Mr and Mrs C bought 
their property but this was rectified by the Land Registry when the register was changed to 
provide title absolute so it says the cover lapsed then.
Because legal proceedings were ongoing, Zurich agreed to pay the legal costs incurred until 
court proceedings were about to begin and offered to pay Mr and Mrs C £3,000 to use to 
extricate themselves from the proceedings, or towards funding further fees. 
Mr and Mrs C accepted the £3,000, in full and final settlement of their claim against Zurich,  
after discussing it with their solicitors and signed a statement in August 2017 to that effect 
(although I note they say they had no choice). 
I understand Mr and Mrs C represented themselves in court and won their case against the 
neighbour, whose claim for possession of the land was struck out. 
However, Mr and Mrs C remain very unhappy that Zurich withdrew cover and say they were 
forced into accepting its offer. They say they incurred significant costs, which should have 
paid under the policy. Mr and Mrs C have made a number of points in support of their 
complaint. Ive considered everything they have said and have summarised their main points 
below:  
They had the title changed to absolute in 2010 on the advice of their solicitors. If they 
had not done so, they were at risk from the claim from their neighbour and because 
they did so, Zurich says they do not have cover under the policy. 
Their solicitor was not proactive and Zurich let them down as it should have 
appointed a proactive solicitor to help them when the claim was accepted. If it had 
done so, the case could have been resolved a lot earlier. 
Zurich should have got a survey of the land and not allowed the neighbour to 
continue with his fraudulent claim. 
They were unable to claim their costs from the neighbour, as they were representing 
themselves and didnt know how to claim costs. Their solicitor had not included costs 
in their defence. 
They felt pressured into accepting the payment from Zurich as they couldnt risk it not 
paying any of the legal fees. Zurich was trying to pressure them into giving up their 
legal case and saying they should put back the fence and give over some of the land.
They were forced to sign the statement saying they had received the £3,000, and this 
is proven by the fact they signed the statement on 7 August but the money was not 
paid until 14 August; and it was paid direct to their solicitor and not to them. 
In addition, their names and address were incorrect on the statement. These points 
would have been picked up, if they had not been forced to sign in a pressured and 
stressed moment. 
Zurichs facts are wrong  it referred to them reinstating a fence but it was not them 
that had removed it. There were other errors, including that it said there was no 
documentation to prove ownership of the land when there was. Zurichs decision was 
based on inaccurate information. 
The dispute with the neighbour was still about the blue area on the plans which is 
covered for any disputes.
The policy does not state that it becomes void once the land is given title absolute. 
And anyway, possessory title has the same standing as absolute title as once 
registered nobody can take the land from you with a possessory title; its exactly the 
same except absolute means 12 years have passed. Title was absolute the day they 
walked into their house.
It was still vulnerable to challenge even when they had absolute title because it had 
been acquired initially by way of adverse possession. And the policy covers 
successors in title, which is them.  
They have suffered financial hardship due to the court case and Zurich leaving them 
in an awful position. The £3,000 was paid direct to their solicitor and went towards his 
costs and they still had to pay further legal fees of £7,000 (they have also mentioned 
owing £12,000 in legal fees). 
They had acted unrepresented until Zurich said they were covered, which is when 
they instructed the solicitors in 2014. They did not incur any legal expenses until they 
had Zurichs permission and assurance they would cover the costs. They would not 
have incurred these costs if it were not for Zurichs mistake. 
If they had been told at the start that they werent insured, theyd have accepted that 
but Zurich withdrew cover at a point of no return and the court proceedings were 
about to begin.
Zurich had agreed to pay for a surveyors report to assess the diminution in value of 
the property without the land claimed by the neighbour but this never happened. Mr and Mrs C want Zurich to reimburse the further legal costs they paid, together with 
interest. 
Zurich said it gave two options to Mr and Mrs C in July 2017: 1) extricate themselves from 
the proceedings before the deadline where theyd need to file a defence. This would include 
surrendering some land to the neighbour, putting back his fence, and paying him £3,000. Or, 
2) use the £3,000 to carry on with the proceedings on their own. Zurichs solicitor told them 
that they didnt think it would be cost effective to defend the proceedings.
Zurich also agreed to meet the legal costs Mr and Mrs C incurred before they were aware of 
the policy. Zurich says the offer was fair and reasonable and Mr and Mrs C had the benefit of 
independent legal advice before accepting the payment. It also says that the court ordered 
that the neighbour should pay their legal fees and they therefore had the opportunity to 
reclaim then from him. It does not therefore agree it should do anything further. 
Zurich also said that it had offered to pay any diminution of value, which would have been  
paid in addition to the £3,000, but as this is only relevant if the land was lost, there was no 
diminution in value. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He didnt think that the complaint should be 
upheld, as he was not persuaded Zurich had acted unreasonably. He thought Zurich was 
entitled to withdraw cover once it became aware the claim should not have been covered. 
Mr and Mrs C do not accept the Investigators assessment. They say he and Zurich got a lot 
of the facts wrong. They say they accept that Zurich probably should never have covered the 
claim but having agreed to do so, it was obligated to help them as they were left in an 
impossible situation having got involved in the court proceedings. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the matter, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see this has been a long saga for Mr and Mrs C and that they were involved in a 
stressful court case through no fault of their own. It would have been especially difficult 
having to represent themselves in those proceedings. However, I do not intend to require 
Zurich to do anything more and I will explain why. 
Was the claim covered? 
The policy states that in the event of any person claiming ownership or rights over which the 
insured is unable to rebut or is prejudiced in rebutting by reason of the Defect the company 
will subject to the terms Provisionals and Conditions herein or endorsed hereon indemnify 
the insured against 
a)All sums which the insured shall become legally liable to pay as damages or 
compensation in any consequent action or proceedings including costs and 
expenses in connection therewith
b)loss of market value of the Property at the date of (i) and court order under which the 
Insured may be dispossessed of the Property or (ii) the surrender of the Property to 
the claimant  The policy schedule sets out that The Defect is the registered possessory title  to that 
part of the property coloured blue on the said plan. 
So the policy covers the area of land that was sold with possessory title and it is the fact it 
had possessory title that is considered to be the defect. 
Mr and Mrs C say that there is effectively no difference between possessory title and title 
absolute. I do not agree. The policy was provided to cover the possibility that someone else 
might establish that they were in fact the true owners of the land that only had possessory 
title. In such circumstances, possessory title can be overturned. However, title absolute 
cannot usually be challenged in the same way. There is no need for such insurance when a 
seller has title absolute (which is why this policy only covered that part of the property that 
had possessory title and not the whole property). The only reason the policy was taken out 
was because this part of the land had possessory title and there was a potential risk of 
someone making a claim on it. 
 
I accept there may have been some documentation supporting that possessory title but that 
is not the same as having documented title to the land. But, in any case, that does not affect 
the cover. 
Mr and Mrs C also say that by the time this dispute happened possessory title had been held 
for more than 12 years, so they effectively had title absolute anyway. They were able to get 
title absolute for the land, on the basis that possessory title had been held for the required 
period of time, having been advised by their solicitor to do so in order to improve their 
position in defending the claim by the neighbour. 
However, as the policy only provides cover for the defective land, that cover ended when 
they registered title absolute, as the defect was rectified. 
Mr and Mrs C argue that the policy does not state that it will lapse in this way and instead 
says the owners of the land and their successors in title continue to be insured under it. 
However, I do not consider the policy needs to specifically state this. The cover is clear that 
it covers the land that was held with possessory title and where a defence of any claim is 
hindered by the defect in title (i.e. the possessory title). So now there is no defect in title 
there is no cover. There is nothing in the policy which would support that the area of land is 
covered for any other dispute. 
Mr and Mrs C also think it is unfair that by establishing their title absolute, this meant they 
were not covered by the policy. I can understand their view but that doesnt change the fact it 
was no longer covered by the policy once that was done. 
I understand part of the dispute was because the neighbour was using incorrect plans and 
thought his boundary was within the land owned by Mr and Mrs C. The neighbour therefore 
said part of the land coloured blue and owned by Mr and Mrs C should have been within his 
boundary. Mr and Mrs C say the dispute was still about the land in the area coloured blue in 
the plans, which is the land covered by the policy for any disputes. But the policy only covers 
the area coloured blue while it had possessory title only. It does not cover any matter of 
dispute about that piece of land. 
Having considered everything, I am satisfied the claim was not covered.
Agreement and £3,000 settlement
Mr and Mrs C say they were forced to sign the statement and accept the settlement from 
Zurich. I can quite understand they may have felt they had no choice but to accept the settlement offered. However, I do not agree this means Zurich should meet any other costs 
or that Zurich did anything wrong in making the offer it did.  
Zurich was entitled to withdraw cover, so it didnt need to make any offer to Mr and Mrs C. 
However, Zurich recognised that Mr and Mrs C were involved in proceedings and in a 
difficult position and had their expectations raised to think that they would be covered for the 
proceedings. It therefore made an offer to try and minimise the detriment to Mr and Mrs C. I 
think this was reasonable. Zurich was aware the title absolute had been granted when it 
accepted the claim, so the mistake was on its part. I do not think this is disputed. So I think it 
was reasonable to provide further assistance, rather than just withdraw cover immediately.
I do not agree that Zurich acted unfairly or unreasonably in putting the offer to Mr and Mrs C, 
or in putting the options of how they might use the £3,000 to them, or in letting them know 
that the costs of proceedings might outweigh the monetary value of the land involved. They 
were options available to Mr and Mrs C and it was up to them to decide how to proceed. I do 
not agree that Zurich was pressuring them into conceding to the neighbour, or that they were 
coerced such that their acceptance of the settlement should be disregarded. 
Overall, I do not think the offers were unreasonable. Zurich was not bound by its mistake (in 
accepting the claim) forever. The neighbour had issued County Court proceedings against 
Mr and Mrs C which had to be acknowledged by them by 24 July 2017, otherwise hed have 
got judgement in default. So Mr and Mrs C had no choice but to acknowledge service and 
defend the claim made against them. Theres no evidence to support that the proceedings 
would not have been issued against Mr and Mrs C if it were not for Zurichs error, so even if 
this error had not been made, theyd have likely been in this position. I agree Mr and Mrs C 
were in an extremely difficult position but that was not a sole result of anything done wrong 
by Zurich. 
Zurich agreed to cover the legal costs incurred up to the date of Mr and Mrs C confirming 
acceptance of the £3,000, which was apparently 25 July 2017. It was up to Mr and Mrs C 
how they wanted to use the £3,000 offered and I dont agree that the proposals made by 
Zurich were ultimatums. They were suggested courses of action and it was up to Mr and   
Mrs C to decide how they wanted to proceed. I note that there seems to have been a 
misunderstanding about the fence but I do not think this changes the position.   
Mr and Mrs C also received legal advice on the offer and their solicitors confirmed their 
acceptance of the offer to Zurich. I note they say their solicitor misled them and they didnt 
receive proper advice but again, this is not due to anything Zurich did wrong. 
Mr and Mrs C also say they thought theyd have £3,000 in credit to use for future costs but it 
was paid direct to the solicitor to use against costs already incurred and they were also left 
with a debt for costs after this. Mr and Mrs C said in one document they were out of pocket 
by £7,000 and elsewhere that theyd ended up with a £12,000 debt. 
Mr and Mrs C say they would not have incurred any legal costs at all if they had not thought 
they were going to be covered by the policy, as they would have represented themselves. 
They say they disinstructed the solicitor shortly after the settlement from Zurich as they 
couldnt afford to pay any more costs and did represent themselves, managing to defeat the 
neighbours claim. Mr and Mrs C therefore say that Zurich should reimburse all the costs 
they incurred. 
I can see that the solicitors presented a bill for work done from October 2016 to 26 July 2017 
and Zurich paid most of this, save around £200 which it said related to costs incurred after 
that date in continuing the legal case or were not covered as they were for registering 
declarations. The solicitor opened a new file for the costs of defending the proceedings going forward. I have seen a letter from Mr and Mrs C, dated 24 July 2017, asking the 
solicitor to tell them if and when the £3,000 was used up but they say it was already needed 
to pay cost incurred on the second file.  
It would have been for Mr and Mrs Cs solicitor to have advised them on the costs position, 
including accounting for the £3,000 received, as well as any potential future costs after 
accepting the settlement from Zurich. As far as I can see, Zurich paid the costs incurred up 
to 26 July 2017, save for a small amount and it had paid the costs Mr and Mrs C incurred 
before making the claim to Zurich. 
It is impossible to know for sure what would have happened, if Zurich had not made the error 
of accepting the claim but I have no reason to doubt what Mr and Mrs C have said (that they 
would have represented themselves in the dispute with the neighbour).  However, I do not 
think Zurich was obliged to have continued any cover, or is responsible for any further costs, 
as it paid costs up to the date they made their decision about the offer made and paid the 
additional £3,000.  It was not responsible for any further costs being incurred with the 
solicitor after that date. 
Mr and Mrs C have also said that if their solicitor acted wrongly, then Zurich is responsible 
for taking that up but this is not the case. The solicitor was appointed by Mr and Mrs C and 
was acting for them. Zurich was not responsible for anything he did or didnt do. 
Defence costs
As I do not consider Zurich was incorrect in withdrawing cover, it follows that I do not think it 
was responsible for ensuring that Mr and Mrs C were able to recover their costs from their 
neighbour. 
Mr and Mrs C say the solicitor advised them not to make a claim for costs in their defence 
and counterclaim because he felt that if they won the case it would be a complication in 
court, since they were insured by Zurich. I have not seen any further evidence of this.
However, Mr and Mrs C were in fact awarded their costs. The judge made an order that the 
neighbour should pay their costs on an indemnity basis, so they could have recouped their 
legal costs from the neighbour. However, it appears Mr and Mrs C didnt pursue that.
I can see there was some correspondence with Zurich about this and it told them they need 
to present a bill to the court for it to assess but said it would not be able to assist them in 
preparing that. I do not think this was reasonable and I do not consider it needed to do 
anything more at this stage.  
Survey and diminution in value
Mr and Mrs C say that part of the agreement made with Zurich in July 2017 was that it would 
have a survey carried out to assess the diminution in value of the property. However, this 
was on the basis that Zurich thought they would concede the claim with the neighbour. As 
Mr and Mrs C did not have to give up any part of their land, there was no diminution in value, 
so no further payment under this part of the policy was payable. I therefore do not think it 
needed to pay for a survey to assess the same either. 
Solicitors advice and actions
Mr and Mrs C are also unhappy with the actions of their solicitor and say Zurich should have 
ensured that they had proactive solicitors to progress their case, should have made sure a 
survey was obtained and should have should have proved the neighbours claim was false.Mr and Mrs C had already instructed their own solicitors when they made the claim and 
Zurich agreed to them continuing to act for them. Zurich was only obliged (in the event of a 
valid claim) to meet the legal costs, which it did. It would then be for the solicitor to determine 
how the case is run, including what evidence such as surveys are required, based on their 
expert legal opinion. Even if the solicitors did not act properly, that would not be Zurichs 
responsibility as they are independent experts subject to their own profession rules. Zurich 
was only ever responsible for paying the legal fees (subject to the terms and conditions). 
I do not agree therefore that Zurich had any obligation to get involved with the neighbour 
directly, appoint its own solicitor to act or take over the proceedings in the way Mr and Mrs C 
have suggested. 
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for their position, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman