DRN-2312252
The complaint
Mr S complains that hes been receiving incorrect information from Phoenix Life Limited 
(Phoenix). He says the correspondence is meant for a customer with the same surname and 
hes concerned that person isnt receiving the information. He says hes made Phoenix 
aware of the situation, but it has continued to make the same error. He says its also made 
administrative errors around the details it holds for him on its records.
What happened
Mr S holds a pension plan with Abbey Life (now part of Phoenix). In July 2019 he received 
correspondence for a different Mr S and contacted Phoenix to make it aware. But Mr S 
received further correspondence the following January and contacted Phoenix again. He 
said he was unhappy that this had continued to happen despite him making Phoenix aware 
and said he was concerned that the other Mr S wasnt receiving information that was meant 
for him. 
He was also concerned that the information might be for his attention, despite the pension 
policy number being different. This was because Phoenix didnt seem to have the correct 
information for Mr S on its records. It didnt hold his correct address, his middle name or his 
national insurance number  which Mr S thought it should have known.
 
Phoenix looked into the matter and said it hadnt provided Mr S with good service. It 
apologised that hed had to contact it numerous times about receiving incorrect 
correspondence and confirmed its records had been updated so the situation shouldnt occur 
again. It also apologised for the incorrect spelling of his address and said it had been 
corrected. It offered £100 for the trouble and upset the errors had caused.
But Mr S didnt think Phoenix should have continued to make those errors and brought his 
complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into the matter and said the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. He said that Phoenix had made a number of errors and shouldnt have 
continued to send someone elses correspondence to Mr S. And it should have updated 
Mr Ss address in 2014 when he first made Phoenix aware of the change. But the 
investigator thought that Phoenixs offer of £100 was fair and reasonable as Mr S hadnt 
lost out financially.
Mr S didnt agree. He made the following points in summary:
Phoenix had tried to pass the blame onto the firm that it used to trace the other Mr S.
In correspondence to Mr S, Phoenix had omitted his middle name, incorrectly spelt 
his street name and given different policy numbers. It shouldnt have made these 
errors.
Phoenix was incompetent.
He could have accessed someone elses pension without them knowing.
The investigator reiterated his view confirming that:
Phoenix had taken responsibility for its error and had offered compensation. 
Phoenix thought they were corresponding with another Mr S and when it spoke with 
Mr S he provided the other policy number  so there had been some confusion and 
an inability to match up the records. And the incorrect street spelling was updated as 
soon as the mistake was recognised. Mr S had always received his own 
correspondence, so the address being incorrect hadnt caused him any 
inconvenience.
Phoenix had told Mr S in July 2019 that the information wasnt intended for him. So, 
while it shouldnt have continued to send him someone elses pension information, 
Mr S was made aware it wasnt meant for him.
It wouldnt have been possible to draw the other Mr Ss pension without completing 
paperwork and being subject to further checks and scrutiny.
He could only look at the inconvenience this matter had caused Mr S, not the 
inconvenience caused to the intended recipient of the correspondence.
Mr S didnt think the compensation was sufficient. He said a company the size of Phoenix 
shouldnt be making such mistakes and that hed had poor service from Phoenix since his 
pension was transferred to it. He wanted his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, so 
its been passed to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was pleased to learn that, after he brought his complaint to us, Mr S was able to confirm 
that his address had been updated and he hadnt received any further plan related 
information for a different Phoenix client. But that doesnt mean Mr S didnt suffer distress 
and inconvenience when he did receive information which was meant for someone else. The 
General Data Protection Regulation is the legislation that protects how peoples data is used 
and gives them more rights and control over how organisations use their data. Its not our 
role to decide if a business has breached data protection laws. Thats for the Information 
Commissioners Office to decide. 
But we can consider whether its fair and reasonable to tell a business to pay compensation 
or take any other action to recognise the impact of whats happened on the consumer. In this 
case it was a different Mr S whose data had been sent out incorrectly, but what Im looking 
at here is the impact that incorrectly receiving this information had on Mr S.
Theres no dispute that, on a number of occasions, Mr S was sent correspondence that was 
meant for a different Mr S. Ive looked at a timeline which showed Mr S contacted Phoenix 
on 19 and 26 July 2019 and again on 10 and 24 January 2020. Ive listened carefully to 
those calls and I can understand why Mr S became more and more frustrated. In July 2019 
he simply contacted Phoenix to understand why hed received some plan information which 
didnt match the details of his own plan held with Phoenix. During the call it was identified 
that this was probably an error and it was clear it was a different policy. Phoenix assured 
Mr S I absolutely promise you we wont send you anything else and Mr S, referring to the 
letter said, so I can bin this then?
Phoenix did say it would investigate the matter further, but I think it was generally agreed the 
information wasnt supposed to be for Mr S and should be ignored by him. 
I appreciate a second letter was received a week later but Phoenix explained this was 
automatically generated while it was still investigating the matter. I know Mr S had to contact 
Phoenix twice at that point  and I think he was concerned about the error, but I dont think this 
had a significant impact on Mr S. We all experience some inconvenience when dealing with 
financial firms from time to time.In January 2020 it appeared that Mr S had received further correspondence and he 
contacted Phoenix again. That call ended with Phoenix telling Mr S to write in with his details 
asking if this policy was his or not. It wasnt clear to me why Mr S was asked to write in with 
his national insurance number and I can understand why this would have frustrated him 
further, although I think he had been put on notice from July 2019 that this policy wasnt his 
and any correspondence he might still have received wasnt meant for him.
But the call Mr S made two weeks later, following a letter he received thanking him for a 
change of name, suggested that Phoenix was still investigating the matter it had started 
looking into in July 2019. I think that would have concerned Mr S as he hadnt been told 
about the resolution of the problem and I think he still had cause to worry over whether the 
information should have been for his policy. So, I think the incidents that occurred in 
January through to March 2020 would have had some impact on Mr S, particularly as it 
seemed as though Phoenix hadnt resolved the initial problem and was unable to be clear 
with Mr S about what had happened. It should have been able to trace the problem in that 
period of six months. 
However, Phoenix has acknowledged these errors and offered £100 in compensation. It has 
explained that initially it sent plan information to another Mr S it had lost contact with, based 
on information provided by a third party, so it didnt think it was fully responsible for sending 
out the first incorrect letter. But it hasnt been able to provide a satisfactory explanation for 
why it continued to send out further letters to Mr S. 
But, when taking into account the impact this had on Mr S, on two separate occasions six 
months apart, I think the offer of compensation is within the range Id expect to see for a 
matter such as this. Ive also been mindful that this hasnt caused Mr S to suffer any financial 
loss and the distress and inconvenience hes suffered has come from having to make a 
number of telephone calls, and the worry of not being given a final answer to the problem 
until nearly nine months after the first incident. So I think the amount offered is fair and 
reasonable in that situation.
Mr S has also made reference to his address being recorded incorrectly and his middle 
name not being on record  which could have been used to distinguish him from the other 
Mr S. Hes also surprised Phoenix didnt hold his NI number either. But I havent seen any 
evidence to show that the address situation caused Mr S not to receive any correspondence 
that was sent for his attention after his address had been updated in 2014. And when the 
other matters were uncovered in March 2020 his details were updated straight away. So I 
dont think that had any impact on Mr Ss situation.
Mr S has referred to those administrative errors as being indictive of Phoenixs 
incompetence, and I can understand why they might have magnified the situation so that 
Mr S lost his trust in Phoenixs administrative ability. But its not for us to regulate or punish 
businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. Instead 
where we award redress it is to compensate a customer for the trouble and upset a
business has caused them. In this case I think Phoenixs offer does that in a reasonable 
way.
Putting things right
Phoenix Life Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.So my decision is that, if it hasnt already done so, Phoenix Life Limited should pay £100.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given Phoenix Life Limited should pay Mr S £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman