DRN-2934739
The complaint
Ms F says Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) didnt do enough to help when she fell victim 
to an authorised push payment (APP) scam. She says Clydesdale should have done more 
to prevent the scam and could have done more to recover the money she lost and that it 
should reimburse her.
What happened
On 27 October 2020, Ms F fell victim to an impersonation scam. She received a message 
from a social media site, which Ms F believed was from her neighbour.  Unfortunately her 
neighbours account had been hacked and the messages were sent from a fraudster. The 
fraudster, pretending to be Ms Fs neighbour, said they had been locked out of their bank 
account and asked for some help to cover bills. Ms F, thinking she was helping her 
neighbour, made five payments totalling £1,445 between 21:49pm and 22:29pm. 
Subsequently Ms F saw a post that advised her neighbours account had been hacked. 
Ms F advised she tried to call Clydesdales fraud number straight away at 22:35pm and then 
tried calling multiple times but no-one answered the phone. Ms F had to report the scam the 
following morning.
Clydesdale, following the scam being logged, looked into the matter. It emailed Ms F and 
explained that it considered that as Ms F had authorised the transfers, it wasnt responsible 
for the loss. It also explained that it had contacted the receiving bank to see whether any 
funds remained that could be recovered.
Clydesdale didnt receive a response from the receiving bank.
Unhappy that matters werent resolved, Ms F complained to Clydesdale. Clydesdale wrote to 
Ms F with its final response on 25 February 2021. It remained of the opinion that it 
considered it hadnt done anything wrong as Ms F had willingly made the transfers. It further 
explained that it hadnt heard from the receiving bank and would raise the matter regarding 
whether any funds remained again. It also explained that because of the pandemic, it wasnt 
operating a 24-hour fraud team and it didnt have a record of any contact Ms F had made on 
27 October 2020. It asked Ms F to provide any evidence that she had reached out to it, and 
it would consider this in line with its missed opportunities protocol. That is to say that if it 
had acted earlier and Ms F had been able to report the scam on 27 October 2020  would it 
have made a difference and meant it was able to recover some or all of the funds for Ms F. 
Dissatisfied with Clydesdales response, Ms F referred the matter to our service.
Clydesdale chased the receiving bank and received a response from it saying that no funds 
had remained and had been withdrawn/moved on instantly after each transfer Ms F had 
made.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
They didnt think Clydesdale ought to have done more to identify the payments as potentially 
fraudulent in the circumstances. And they also felt Clydesdale couldnt have reasonably 
done anymore to try and recover the funds from the receiving bank as the funds had already 
been withdrawn prior to Ms F attempting to contact Clydesdale to report the scam. 
Ms F disagreed with the investigators assessment. Ms F thought Clydesdale could have 
done more to prevent the losses, and still considered Clydesdale could have done more to 
recover the funds given she had contacted Clydesdale straight after she had made the last 
transfer. 
As the matter hasnt been resolved its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Ms Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. 
It is the case that Ms F authorised the transfers in dispute and thats accepted by all parties. 
And under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant regulations in 
place here) that means Ms F is responsible for them. That remains the case even though 
Ms F was the unfortunate victim of a scam.
There are times when I might expect a bank to question a transaction or payment, even 
though it may have been properly authorised. Broadly speaking, firms like Clydesdale have 
certain obligations to protect customers from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Clydesdale acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Ms F when she made the transfers or whether it should have done more than it did.
Ive thought about this carefully. From what Ive seen, there isnt anything unusual or 
remarkable about the transfers or the amounts that ought to have alerted Clydesdale to the 
possibility Ms F was being scammed. Banks process a high volume of transfers and 
transactions each day. And a bank has to strike a balance as to when it should possibly 
intervene on a payment against not holding up or delaying its customers requests.
In this case, Ms F had enough funds in her account each time, the payments werent 
clearing or emptying Ms Fs account, and they werent so out of character that there could 
reasonably be grounds for Clydesdale to be suspicious Ms F may be a victim of fraud. So, I 
think the fact that Clydesdale didnt flag the transfers as suspicious was fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.I have also looked to see whether Clydesdale acted appropriately once the scam was 
reported and whether it acted promptly to see if any of the funds could be recovered. Ms F 
strongly considers Clydesdale should have done more for her here, as she contacted 
Clydesdale within minutes of the last transaction she had made.
I can see from the information and evidence Ms F has provided, that she did call Clydesdale 
straight away. The last transfer Ms F made was at 22:29pm and Ms F called Clydesdale at 
22:35pm. So I can understand why Ms Fs feels that if she had been able to get through to 
Clydesdale at that time  her funds might not have been lost.
However, faster payment transfers can be instant, and are more often than not credited to 
the receiving bank account instantaneously.
The receiving bank (the bank used by the scammer) has provided information to show when 
Ms Fs transfers were credited into the account  and importantly when they were withdrawn.
All of the transfers Ms F made were credited instantly and were also moved on instantly. The 
last transfer Ms F made was at 22:29pm and those funds were withdrawn/moved on at 
22:31pm  so prior to Ms Fs attempt to call Clydesdale at 22:35pm.
So had Ms F been able to contact Clydesdale at 10:35pm and had Clydesdale reached out 
to the receiving bank straight away to try and recover the funds, unfortunately there still 
would not have been any funds for it to return as the scammer had already moved the funds 
by this time.
Overall, while I appreciate Ms Fs been the unfortunate victim of a scam, I think Clydesdales 
decision not to refund her in this instance was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I 
say this because it followed Ms Fs instructions to make the payments and I havent seen 
any reason why it shouldnt have done this. And unfortunately, as the funds had already 
been moved on prior to Ms F trying to contact Clydesdale at 22:35pm on 27 October 2020, it 
wouldnt have been able to recover the funds or do anything to help Ms F further. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman