DRN-3424514
The complaint
Mr B, through a representative, says 1Plus1 Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr B took out a 36-month guarantor loan from 1Plus1 Loans for £3,500 on 17 November
2015. The monthly repayments were £164.31 and the total amount repayable was
£5,915.16. It was given on the basis that Mr B had a guarantor who would be responsible for
repaying the loan if he failed to.
Mr B says the lender did not properly undertake affordability checks or assess signs of his
over-indebtedness.
The investigator said Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He said the lenders checks did
not go far enough and proportionate checks would have shown it was likely the loan would
not be sustainably affordable for Mr B.
1Plus1 Loans disagreed. In summary, it said whilst it acknowledged Mr B didnt have a
perfect credit history he had taken steps to improve his position and his active debt was
relatively low. This loan was to consolidate existing debts and we have not shown that taking
it out was detrimental to Mr B. He made his repayments on time and did not contact it to ask
for assistance at any point.
1Plus1 Loans asked for an ombudsmans review so the case was passed to me. I reached a 
different conclusion to the investigator, so I issued a provisional decision. An extract follows 
and forms part of this final decision. I asked both parties to send in any comments or new 
evidence by 14 April 2022.
Extract from my provisional decision
1Plus1 Loans asked for some information from Mr B before it approved the loan. It asked
for details of his income and verified this with a payslip and a letter confirming his tax credits.
It asked for his monthly living costs which it validated using national statistics and it added a
£200 buffer. It checked his credit file to understand his credit history and current monthly
repayments. It also asked about the purpose of the loan which was debt consolidation. From
these checks combined 1Plus1 Loans concluded Mr B had monthly disposable income of
£333 and so the loan was affordable.
I am not persuaded 1Plus1 Loans checks were proportionate. Its initial checks were
reasonable, but I think after the results of the credit check it ought to have completed a fuller
financial review. I say this as it showed Mr B had defaulted on an account in January 2015
and had missed the last two payments on a mail order account.
So I have looked at what fuller checks would most likely have shown. Mr B has supplied
copies of his bank statements to allow me to do this  Im not saying this is what the lender
needed to check but its one way for me to get a fuller understanding of his financial
circumstances at that time  and to see what 1Plus1 Loans would most likely have learnt
from proportionate checks.
The statements do not indicate that Mr B was under financial pressure at the time of this
loan application. For example, he was not using payday loans, or an overdraft facility and his
finances seem to have been stable. This loan  with its monthly repayment of £164.31 - was
to be used to settle a loan with a balance of £1,704 and a monthly repayment of £154 and
£1,500 of a credit card debt with a £1,678 balance. So I cant see that in approving it 1Plus 1
Loans ought to have thought it would cause adverse financial consequences for Mr B.
I acknowledge there were five defaults on Mr Bs credit check but four of these were historic
(late 2009/early 2010) and Mr B was had payment plans in place to repay those debts. The
more recent default was on a low balance (£191) and the two missed payments were £26 a
month, so I dont think that amounts to such a level of adverse data that 1Plus 1 Loans ought
to have decided not to lend. Mr B was not heavily indebted at time, with around £3,600 of
active debt  the majority of which he was planning to consolidate with this loan. It doesnt
seem from Mr Bs bank statements that those recent missed payments were caused by lack
of funds.
So I think its most likely better checks wouldnt have showed the lender Mr B was
having problems managing his money at the time of his application such that it would be
irresponsible to lend to him.
It follows that I dont think 1Plus1 Loans was wrong to give the loan to Mr B. And I havent
seen any evidence that it acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in some other way.
Both parties responded before the deadline accepting the findings and outcome set out in 
my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
As neither party sent in any comments or new evidence I have no reason to change the 
findings or outcome I set out in my provisional decision. It follows for the reasons set out 
above I dont find 1Plus1 Loans was wrong to lend to Mr B.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman