DRN-4341265
The complaint
Ms G complains Phoenix Life Limited hasnt properly managed the investments in her 
stakeholder pension, causing her a financial loss. 
What happened
In 2002, Ms G took out a stakeholder pension that Phoenix later became responsible for. 
The pensions Terms and Conditions and Key Features documents both explained how it 
would be invested  that in the five years before Ms G reached her chosen retirement age in 
2025, an increasing proportion of her investment would be switched from the Pension 
Growth Fund (PGF) to the Pension Income Protector Fund (PIPF) with the aim of 
protecting against changes in annuity rates near to retirement. So Ms Gs pension had a 
lifestyle approach.
On 4 January 2023 Ms G called Phoenix for her pensions current value and was given a 
value lower than the previous years. Ms G complained to Phoenix as she wanted to know if 
shed been given an incorrect value, or whether her pension was incorrectly invested, as she 
thought half of it was invested in the PIPF and the UK stock market hadnt had a similar fall. 
On 24 April 2023, Phoenix responded to Ms Gs complaint, which it didnt uphold. It 
explained her pension was initially invested in mainly UK stocks and shares in the PGF, but 
in later years was gradually switched to mainly long gilts in the PIPF, to reduce the impact of 
market changes on the amount of annuity Ms G might want to buy. But her investments 
werent guaranteed and the PIPF had been affected by increased interest and inflation, 
though these also increased the annuity Ms Gs fund could buy. Phoenix said the Key 
Features document and later annual statements had outlined the risks to Ms G. And the 
annual statements recommended that she check her investments remained suitable for her 
and seek independent financial advice. 
Ms G referred her complaint to our Service. She also said Phoenix had taken too long to 
answer her pension concerns and hadnt sent her a pension valuation for the past two years.
But our Investigator didnt uphold her complaint. She said Phoenix wasnt responsible for 
Ms Gs pension falling in value, as unforeseeable political events had increased inflation and 
interest rates, affecting the value of gilts. And her pension remained invested, and 
investments can go down as well as up.
Ms G said Phoenix took 16 weeks to give its answer yet still hadnt answered her main 
concern, which was how the value could fall so much given it was invested in the PIPF. 
Ms G said she hadnt asked Phoenix to switch her pension investments to the PIPF, and the 
value wouldnt have fallen if theyd been left in the PGF. She thought Phoenix had either 
mismanaged her pension or not properly informed her of the risks to start with, because she 
wasnt told the PIPF still risked significant falls in value - if shed been told this, she wouldve 
switched to a cash fund as she moved towards retirement rather than take the lifestyle 
approach. She said Phoenix had a duty of care and knew about the impact market 
conditions were having on investments in gilts. Yet it hadnt contacted her about that or 
considered whether its lifestyle approach was still suitable. So it left her worse off because 
what had previously looked like a good option was implemented automatically without 
consideration of todays circumstances. 
Our Investigator said we couldnt consider how long Phoenix took to respond to Ms Gs 
complaint, as complaint handling wasnt a regulated activity. And she still thought Phoenix 
had switched Ms Gs investments in line with the terms and conditions of her pension.
As agreement couldnt be reached, Ms Gs complaint came to me for a decision. On 28 July 
2023, I issued my provisional decision in which I explained why I thought Phoenix hadnt 
made an error or treated Ms G unfairly.
Phoenix didnt provide any further comments for me to consider. 
Ms G did provide further comments. In summary, she said she and other customers were left 
unprotected and abandoned. This was a workplace pension and she wasnt given any 
advice when it started, she was just given information that was supposed to let her make an 
informed choice and that information pointed to a lifestyle approach being in her best 
interests. And if she wasnt required to seek independent financial advice at the start of this 
pension, then it wasnt acceptable for her to be required to seek such advice later. It seemed 
firms had a duty of care at the start of a pension but not afterwards, so if Phoenix wasnt 
responsible for this later duty of care then the regulator the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), was, but wasnt meeting it. And it wasnt good enough for Phoenix to hide behind the 
paperwork it sent her in 2018. 
Im now in a position to issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Ms G feels she and other customers have been left unprotected and 
abandoned. However, I should be clear that my role is to consider individual complaints 
made by consumers against financial businesses - in this case, what I am considering is the 
individual complaint made by Ms G against Phoenix. So Im not considering how Phoenix 
has treated a wider group of its customers, or commenting on the regulator. 
The crux of Ms Gs complaint is about her pension investments. 
Ms G says she took this pension through her employer, and it may be that a lifestyle 
approach was the default profile. A lifestyle approach is used to manage investment risks as 
a customers retirement age approaches. Over a number of years, they gradually move 
investments out of equity type assets and into cash and fixed interest assets, such as gilts  
because, generally speaking, investments like this are less volatile and lower risk over the 
long term than equity assets. And Ms Gs pension started prior to pension freedoms being 
introduced in 2015 when other flexible options werent available. So the lifestyle approachs 
goal was to invest for an annuity purchase, as gilts have an inverse relationship with 
annuities - when interest rates increase, the value of gilts go down and annuity rates go up. 
Im satisfied Phoenix made reasonably clear how Ms Gs pension would be invested under 
the lifestyle approach, because the Key Features document Ms G would likely have been 
given at the start of her pension explained what the PGF and the PIPF were, and that in the 
five years before her chosen retirement age, her pension investments would increasingly 
switch from the PGF to the PIPF. Ms G says Phoenix didnt properly inform her about the risks or contact her about them, or 
consider whether its lifestyle approach was still suitable. So Ive thought about this. But 
Phoenix wasnt responsible for monitoring Ms Gs investments on her behalf and warning 
her about changes, as Ms G suggests. Instead, Phoenix was responsible for administering 
Ms Gs pension in line with the chosen approach. It was for Ms G to monitor her investments 
to make sure they remain suitable for her in her particular circumstances, and I think 
Phoenix took reasonable steps to draw Ms Gs attention to this and to the investment risk.
I say that because Ive seen that the first page of the Key Features document has a section 
titled risk factors which says Investment growth is not guaranteed and the value of the 
investment can fall as well as rise. 
And while I appreciate Ms G thinks Phoenix is hiding behind what it sent her, Ive seen that 
Phoenix wrote to her specifically about lifestyle switching in the run up to it starting. On 11 
October 2018 it sent her a letter entitled Reminder about Lifestyle SwitchingIMPORTANT 
 action required. Is your investment strategy right for you? The letter went on to explain 
what lifestyle switching was, when it would start for Ms G, and that Ms G should consider 
whether lifestyle switching was still right for her. It set out the risks and benefits of lifestyle 
switching. It provided Ms G with a link to more information about lifestyle switching on its 
website. And it recommended Ms G speak to a financial adviser in order to make an 
informed decision, and set out how she could find an adviser as well as giving details of a 
free and impartial pension guidance service.
Further, on 9 July 2020 Phoenix wrote again to Ms G to say her pensions lifestyle switching 
was due to start soon, and that Ms G could find more information about lifestyle switching 
and her investment choices on its website by using the link provided or by contacting it. The 
letter said What do you need to do? You should review your plans for retirement and fund 
choices and consider whether lifestyle switching is right for you. The attached factsheet 
provides more information on the benefits and risks of lifestyle switching in general. If you 
decide that you do not want lifestyle switching to be applied, please let us know, within 4 
weeks of the date of this letter, by calling [us]. You can also contact us if you want to switch 
the funds your pension savings are invested in. 
The letter also said Help with your decision. It is very important that you regularly review 
your pension plan(s) and fund choices and consider if they remain suitable for your financial 
needs. The letter went on to recommend that Ms G speak to a financial adviser in order to 
make an informed decision and set out how she could find an adviser as well as giving 
details of a free and impartial pension guidance service. The letter also enclosed a page 
setting out the benefits and risks of lifestyle switching. 
In addition, Phoenix sent Ms G annual statements. These included the following information:
The value of her pension plan can go down as well as up, and that the values shown 
were not guaranteed and may change. 
Her plan included lifestyle switching, where her pension was automatically moved out of 
funds that invest mainly in stocks and shares and into funds that invest in gilts as she 
approaches her retirement date.
That lifestyle switching aimed to reduce the impact of changing financial markets on 
annuities, but changes to pension rules meant lifestyle switching might no longer be 
appropriate for Ms G. And Ms G could find more information in the What is the lifestyle 
switch option? section of the enclosed leaflet and through the link provided to the 
lifestyle switching section of Phoenixs website.
Additionally, the 2020 annual statement said Your chosen retirement date is [day 
month] 2025. We shall therefore start to move your units into the Pension Income 
Protector Fund from [day month] 2020.I know Ms G says she hasnt received annual statements for the last two years. Phoenix has 
provided me with copies of the annual statements it sent to Ms G in 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022 
and 2023, and Ive seen they were addressed correctly. So Im satisfied Phoenix sent these 
annual statements correctly.. 
Ms G also says she wasnt given any independent financial advice when her pension started 
so its not acceptable she should be required to seek such advice later. For clarity, Ive seen 
nothing to make me think Phoenix should have given Ms G independent financial advice at 
the start of her pension. And Ive not seen that Phoenix later told Ms G she was required to 
seek independent financial advice  based on what Ive seen, Phoenix instead suggested 
Ms G seek such advice as one way for her to be sure she was making informed decisions 
about her pension. I note Phoenix also suggested Ms G contact a free and impartial pension 
guidance service, which it gave her details for.  
Taking all this into account, Im satisfied that Phoenix took reasonable steps to draw Ms Gs 
attention to the need for her to monitor her investments to make sure they remain suitable 
for her in her particular circumstances, and to the investment risk.
But Ms G is concerned that Phoenix has mismanaged her pension, so Ive considered this. 
Ms G reached the point at which the lifestyle switches would start in 2020, five years before 
her chosen retirement age. Based on the annual statements Phoenix sent Ms G, I can see 
Phoenix switched Ms Gs investments from the PGF to PIPF in line with the lifestyle profile 
fund switches it set out in the Key Features document at the start of her plan. So Im 
satisfied Phoenix followed the fund switches called for by Ms Gs lifestyle profile.
As Ive said, the lifestyle approach is used to manage investment risks as a customers 
chosen retirement age approaches. But even then, risk is not eliminated. In certain 
situations, fixed interest investments can fall in value sharply. Unforeseeable global and 
political events in 2022 meant that the value of gilts fell, and by that point a very significant 
proportion of Ms Gs pension fund was invested in gilts in line with her chosen lifestyle 
approach. It seems Ms G thinks Phoenix or the regulator should have warned her about this. 
But as Ive explained, its for Ms G to monitor her investments to make sure they remain 
suitable for her in her particular circumstances, and I think Phoenix took reasonable steps to 
draw her attention to this. I note the PIPF appears to have achieved broadly similar returns 
to the appropriate benchmark indices. So Im satisfied that the fall in value Ms G 
unfortunately suffered wasnt due to an error by Phoenix. 
In summary then, I cant agree that Phoenix treated Ms G unfairly when it followed the 
lifestyle approach. Im satisfied it did enough to make Ms G aware that her pension 
investments would be treated in this way, and that she was responsible for monitoring them 
and making any changes. And Im satisfied Phoenix followed the fund switches called for by 
Ms Gs chosen lifestyle approach. So, I dont think Phoenix has made an error or treated 
Ms G unfairly. As such I am not asking Phoenix to do anything here, though I know this isnt 
the answer Ms G hoped for. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman