DRN-2667480
The complaint
Mr L complains that ATLANTA 1 INSURANCE SERVICES LIMITED (Autonet) failed to 
automatically renew his insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L held a vehicle insurance policy with Autonet. The policy term ended in July 2020 and 
Mr L believed it had auto renewed as this had happened with his previous policies. However 
the policy hadnt been automatically renewed, which led to Mr L being stopped by the police 
for driving without insurance.
Autonet confirmed that it wrote to him weeks before the policy lapsed in June 2020 with a 
renewal notice, informing him that he needed to call it in order to renew his policy. And it 
says it sent him a further chaser at the beginning of July 2020.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In short, she 
thought Autonet had done enough to notify Mr L that the policy wouldnt automatically renew. 
And she thought that ultimately it was for Mr L to ensure he has insurance.
Mr L didnt agree so his complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Autonet has provided screenshots showing that two notifications were sent to Mr L on 12 
June 2020 and 3 July 2020. The system shows that both of these were via email. However 
Mr L says he didnt receive these emails. And he later confirmed that he found the 12 June 
2020 renewal notice unopened at his business address, which wasnt in use at the time due 
to the government-imposed lockdown. 
I have considered this and note that Mr Ls preferred method of contact was via email. 
However a preferred method of contact doesnt mean that Autonet wasnt able to contact 
him via other means. And Autonet has provided me with a screenshot from its internal 
system showing that Mr L was sent emails to the correct email address  even if these 
werent received. So, on balance, I think its likely that the notifications were sent to Mr L. 
And therefore I cant say that Autonet made a mistake in failing to send the renewal notice. It 
is possible that Mr L didnt receive the emails or that they were filtered into a spam folder by 
Mr Ls email provider, however I cant reasonably hold Autonet responsible for that.
I understand that Mr L thinks the correspondence wasnt sent because he has received 
misleading information from Autonet when he raised his complaint  and I dont disagree 
with him that Autonet hasnt been clear about the correspondence that was sent. However, 
Mr L has now confirmed that he did receive a renewal notice by post and Ive seen two 
system notes stating that two emails were sent, so Mr Ls comments dont change my 
opinion that I think its likely Autonet did send the renewal notices.
I have also considered the content of the correspondence. In the renewal notice, it said to 
make sure your cover is continuous, you must contact us on the number above to renew 
your policy before your renewal date, after which no cover will be in force. So I think the 
correspondence made it clear that if Mr L wanted to take to cover for the next policy year, he 
needed to get in touch with Autonet.
Finally Mr L has said that the terms of his most recent policy, purchased after this policy, 
stated that the policy would automatically renew. However those arent the terms of the 
policy he took out in 2019 that lapsed in July 2020. His policy that was taken in 2019 stated:
Please note that if we confirm your policy will not be automatically renewed, cover will 
cease on your renewal date unless you contact us beforehand to make a payment.
Ultimately it was Mr Ls responsibility to ensure that he checks his policy documents before 
renewal. So I dont think it would be unreasonable to expect him to check his policy 
documents before the policy was due for renewal.
So, while I have sympathy for the unfortunate position Mr L has found himself in as a result 
of a seemingly genuine oversight, I havent seen anything to suggest Autonet made an error 
at the renewal of his policy. And therefore, it follows that I dont think the complaint should be 
upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman