DRN-3834907
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that AWP P&C SA paid only part of their claim against their travel 
insurance policy. Reference to AWP includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs S have annual travel insurance policy underwritten 
by AWP which they took out in September 2021. They booked a family trip with intended 
departure and return dates of 15 December 2021 and 22 December 2021 respectively. 
Unfortunately, on 21 December 2021, one of Mr and Mrs S daughters had an ear 
infection and was unable to fly home as planned. Mr and Mrs S sought medical help for 
their daughter. Mrs S and one daughter returned home as planned. Mr S remained with 
the other daughter until their delayed return on 24 December 2021, when she was fit to 
fly.  
On 29 December 2021, Mr and Mrs S made a claim against their policy in relation to 
various expenses. On 9 March 2022, AWP told Mr and Mrs S that it would settle their 
claim in part. It subsequently paid £1,707.26 in relation to certain medical, travel and 
accommodation costs. AWP didnt reimburse Mr and Mrs S for the following items in 
their claim:
food,
cash withdrawal fee,
additional PCR tests,
travel costs to the airport at their destination,
travel costs from the airport in the UK,
travel costs relating to additional PCR tests and
airport lounge access.
Mr and Mrs S complained that AWP hadnt settled their claim in full. They are also 
concerned about how AWP handled their claim.  
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that as AWP hadnt 
provided this service with information we had asked for, she proceeded on the basis of 
the information provided by Mr and Mrs S. 
The investigator said that AWP should have reimbursed Mr S cost of travel to the airport 
at the destination and from the airport in the UK to Mr and Mrs S home. She said that 
AWP should pay those parts of the claim and pay interest. The investigator didnt think 
that AWP had acted unfairly in declining the other items of the claim set out above. She 
didnt think that the time taken for AWP to deal with the claim warranted compensation
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with the investigator. They said that the policy was sold as a 
Covid-19 policy, so should cover additional testing. Mr and Mrs S said that they took all 
steps to avoid additional costs. They dispute that the taxi fares are not included in their 
cover. Mr and Mrs S disagree that the time AWP took to settle part of their claim was 
reasonable. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.   
My provisional decision
On 16 November 2022, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I said 
that I intended to uphold the complaint for different reasons and with a different outcome 
than has been suggested before. 
I said that under the terms of the policy, Mr S travel costs to the airport at their 
destination and from the UK airport to home are covered under emergency medical 
expenses as they are reasonable repatriation expenses. So, AWP should reimburse    
Mr and Mrs S in relation to those items and pay interest on those amounts. 
I said that theres no cover under the policy for cash withdrawal fees or the cost of airport 
lounge access. So, I didnt think that AWP was at fault in not reimbursing those items. I 
said that AWP was entitled to rely on exclusions in the policy in relation to taxi fares, 
food and drink expenses and additional PCR tests.
I said that, in the particular circumstances here, AWP took too long to deal with the claim 
and that it should pay interest on the partial settlement it paid in March 2022. I said that it 
should also pay compensation of £100 in relation to Mr and Mrs S distress and 
inconvenience caused by its handling of their claim. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs S said that they accepted my provisional decision. AWP said that it had 
nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further substantive comment I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional decision.  
Putting things right
In order to put things right, AWP should:
Settle Mr and Mrs S claim in relation to their travel costs from their destination to 
the airport and from the UK airport to home.
 Pay interest on the above amounts at the simple rate of 8% per year from the date 
they made their claim to the date it makes payment.
Pay interest on the partial settlement of £1,707.28 at the simple rate of 8% per year 
from the date Mr and Mrs S made their claim to the date AWP paid the partial 
settlement.  
Pay compensation of £100 in relation to their distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. AWP P&C SA should now take the steps Ive 
set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman