DRN-3620875
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard wont admit to making a 
mistake with his direct debit.
What happened
Mr B had a direct debit instruction in place for his Barclaycard account to be paid by Bank A. 
Mr B didnt always use his Barclaycard and there was a 14 month period, between June 
2020 and August 2021, when he didnt use it at all. 
The direct debit was cancelled in August 2021. Barclaycard thought this was due to 
dormancy, however, they didnt update Mr B. 
In December 2021, activity on Mr Bs Barclaycard account meant a payment was required 
and this failed to happen due to the direct debit not being applied. This resulted in Mr B 
missing a payment and incurring a late payment fee. It also impacted his credit file. 
Mr B contacted Barclaycard as he thought the direct debit was still in place. Mr B says he 
had a bad experience when discussing this with Barclaycard and he says the agents lied 
and shouted at him.
Barclaycard investigated and upheld Mr Bs complaint. Barclaycard said they should have 
advised Mr B that his direct debit was cancelled. They apologised, refunded the fee, 
submitted an amendment to the credit file and offered £75 compensation. Regarding the 
complaint about the agents, Barclaycard said they would provide feedback to prevent this 
happening again.
Mr B was dissatisfied with Barclaycards response. Mr B believes he has proof that the direct 
debit was never cancelled and is still active. He thinks Barclaycard have given him false 
information and are lying to him. Mr B contacted the Barclaycard representative who had 
upheld his complaint, however his complaint wasnt fully discussed, as the representative 
terminated the call after Mr B continued with offensive language.
Mr B complained to our service that Barclaycard are exploiting his vulnerability. He feels they 
are ignoring his complaint and refusing to recognise their mistake, which is causing him 
anxiety and impacting on his health, time and finances. Mr B requests an apology and £200 
compensation. 
Our investigator couldnt see that Barclaycard had done anything wrong and thought their 
resolution was fair.
Mr B feels his points have not been considered and this case has now been referred to me 
to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Whilst I understand his frustration and 
concern, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint for the following reasons:
I looked at the direct debit to determine whether it had been cancelled in August 2021 and, if 
it had, by whom.
I first considered Barclaycards submission which was a system record showing DD CANC 
BY PAYER which they said, reflects this was cancelled by the banks side, either on their 
instruction or Mr B. Although I cant interrogate Barclaycards system, I considered this to be 
evidence the direct debit was cancelled by Bank A. 
I then looked at Mr Bs submission. Mr B points to the same reference number appearing on 
March 2020 and January 2022 e-statements. Mr B believes this and the June 2020 
statement, saying the next direct debit would be taken in July 2020, to be evidence that the 
direct debit was never cancelled. However, Ive had to balance this with information that 
shows a new direct debit being set up. Also, the reference number is the card number which 
would be likely to appear. In addition, statements will automatically show the next direct debit 
due date. So, whilst I didnt discount that the direct debit hadnt been cancelled, I couldnt 
see this information as proof.    
I also looked at Mr Bs dormancy point. Mr B doesnt consider dormancy to be a plausible 
explanation because of Covid rule changes extending the dormancy period to 24 months. 
Although I understand Mr Bs point, dormancy can only be applied by Bank A. Also, as Mr B 
says he didnt cancel the direct debit, Barclaycard thought this to be the likely reason. So, I 
dont consider this to be evidence of Barclaycard being dishonest.
While Mr Bs complaint is against Barclaycard here, I made enquiries with Bank A to see if it 
could provide any further information about the situation here. Mr B says Bank A informed 
him that they didnt instruct Barclaycard to cancel the direct debit. Also, Mr B appeared to be 
unaware of the new direct debit instruction. But Bank A responded by saying their records 
indicate the August 2021 direct debit was cancelled by Mr B. Furthermore, they say Mr B set 
up new direct debits in December 2021 and January 2022.
For the above-mentioned reasons, Im satisfied that Barclaycard didnt make an error with Mr 
Bs direct debit and have acted honestly when responding to his complaint. Also, 
Barclaycard accept they shouldve advised Mr B when his direct debit was cancelled, and I 
think their actions, including paying compensation, are fair and reasonable.
Finally, I looked at the way Mr B was treated by Barclaycard staff and whether his 
vulnerability was exploited.
Barclaycard say that the first time they were made aware of Mr Bs vulnerability was at the 
beginning of January 2022, when Mr B informed them that he suffered from anxiety and 
depression. 
Prior to this date, I noticed that Barclaycard apologised to Mr B for the experience he 
received when he complained about their representatives. In their complaint response 
Barclaycard said:    
you experienced exceptionally poor service from several advisors as a result of trying to sort 
this issue out, including being given incorrect information. I have reviewed your call history 
and I can see there have been multiple calls made on the day your complaint was raised. It is highly plausible the service provided on some of these calls has fallen below our usual 
high level of service we strive to deliver on each and every call. Rest assured, I have 
provided feedback to prevent this happening again. 
They also included this when considering the above-mentioned compensation offer and I 
think their response and action was fair and reasonable.
I then looked at Barclaycards communication after from January 2022. Mr B thought he was 
being continually lied to and, from listening to calls, his tone and comments suggested he 
was anxious and agitated. Although Ive considered what Mr B has told us about his mental 
health, my role is to consider both sides of a complaint. Having done so here  I can see 
why Barclaycard staff would have felt insulted and offended by some of his comments. I 
found Barclaycards representatives dealt with Mr Bs calls mostly in a calm, patient and 
helpful way. And, I think it understandable that some Barclaycard staff found Mr Bs 
language unacceptable and felt the need to challenge him, issue warnings and terminate a 
call. 
So, considering this, together with evidence that Barclaycard were being honest about the 
direct debit, Im satisfied that their responses were appropriate, and Barclaycard werent 
trying to exploit Mr Bs vulnerability.
Whilst I understand the confusion and frustration here, I havent seen anything which 
suggests Barclaycard have acted unreasonably or unfairly and I dont think they need to do 
anything further in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman