DRN-1833861
The complaint
Mr F is complaining that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) hasnt refunded money he paid on his 
credit card to stay at a hotel. He made the claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (S75).
What happened
In February 2019 Mr F bought a voucher to stay in a specific hotel for three nights. Under the 
terms of the voucher, he had up to 18 months to use the voucher. The voucher cost £198 
and he paid for it with his BOS credit card.
In July 2019, the management company for the hotel went into administration so Mr F 
contacted BOS to request a refund of the payment he made. BOS carried out a chargeback 
on the payment  initially refunding the payment back onto Mr Fs credit card  and raised a 
dispute with the hotel. But the hotel defended the chargeback saying that it was still trading 
and said Mr F could still use the voucher. So BOS returned the charge back onto Mr Fs 
credit card.
Mr F says he was initially happy with this outcome. However, he says he tried calling the 
hotel but he was unable to get through. He says he also tried going on its website, but he 
says he was unable to access it. So he didnt agree with the outcome of his chargeback. He 
also provided feedback from an online consumer review website, which he said showed 
other consumers had looked to use the voucher but hadnt been able to do so.
BOS opened a S75 claim and responded to Mr F to say that he needed to provide 
something from the hotel to show that he couldnt use the voucher. Mr F provided 
correspondence, which he said was from the hotels liquidators, and he said it set out the 
hotel was in liquidation. BOS still didnt think the S75 claim should be upheld, so Mr F 
referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she didnt think there was enough to show 
there was a breach of contract, as she said she hadnt seen anything to show that Mr F 
couldnt have used the voucher.
Mr F didnt agree with the investigators opinion. He said he received a letter from the 
liquidator to say the hotels management company had gone into liquidation and also said 
his only route for recompense was his credit card company through S75. He said he bought 
a holiday on his credit card, the company went into liquidation before he took the holiday, so 
he said he was entitled to a refund.
Our investigator still didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said the liquidator had 
said that Mr F may be able to make a S75 claim if he cant use the hotel. But she said, as 
Mr F hadnt tried to book his stay with the hotel, there wasnt anything to show he couldnt 
use it. So she said she didnt have any grounds to ask BOS to do anything more. 
Mr F still didnt agree with the investigator. He said he entered into a contract with the 
management company that went into liquidation. He said that company went into liquidation 
in April 2019 and, as he had not taken the holiday, he was advised to seek recompense from 
his credit card company. He maintains theres a breach of contract as hed not taken the 
holiday by the time the company went into administration.
As Mr F didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Mr F is unhappy BOS has refunded the amount he paid for a voucher for a holiday after the 
company he says he bought the voucher from went into liquidation. BOS says theres 
nothing to show that he wasnt able to use the voucher.
BOS initially carried out a process called a chargeback to dispute the transaction, but this 
wasnt successful. As Mr F didnt agree with this outcome, BOS considered the matter under 
S75 but didnt uphold this. I shall look at BOSs actions in respect to both of these processes 
separately.
Chargeback
Chargeback is the process by which a bank or credit card provider look to resolve a 
settlement between a consumer and a merchant under the relevant card scheme. Initially the 
card provider will temporarily refund the payment back onto the card account and will raise a 
dispute with the merchant. The merchant is then required to respond within a prescribed 
period of time with any further information it wishes to provide and set out why it thinks the 
chargeback shouldnt go through. If the chargeback is defended, then the temporary refund 
is returned to the merchant.
In this case, I can see BOS raised the chargeback dispute following Mr Fs request and 
temporarily refunded the payment back to the credit card. But the hotel responded to say it 
was still trading and said Mr F could still use the voucher. So, in line with the chargeback 
rules, BOS returned the payment back to the merchant. While I appreciate Mr F doesnt 
agree with what the hotel said, Im satisfied BOS carried out its responsibilities under the 
chargeback rules correctly. And I havent seen anything to show it treated Mr F unfairly in 
this respect.
S75
Mr F paid for the voucher on his BOS credit card. S75 sets out that in certain circumstances, 
as the finance provider, BOS is jointly liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the supplier. Im satisfied those circumstances apply here. I can see the payment on 
Mr Fs credit card was paid directly to the hotel. The voucher was for use in the hotel, so I 
think the contract Mr F took out was with the hotel itself. So, it follows, that I think the 
supplier of the contract was the hotel in this case. 
The issue I have to decide here is whether I think the supplier  the hotel  has breached the 
terms of the contract it had with Mr F. Under the terms of the contract, the supplier was 
required to provide Mr F a voucher to enable him to stay three nights at the hotel and he had 
18 months to use that voucher. Theres no dispute that Mr F was provided with this voucher.Mr F says that, because the management company that first sold him the voucher has gone 
into administration, hes entitled to a full refund, but I dont agree. The issue I have to decide 
is whether Mr F has given us anything to show he cant use the voucher. And it is ultimately 
for Mr F to demonstrate that theres been a breach of contract.
Mr F has provided correspondence from the liquidator which says that he may be able to 
recover the money paid. But it also needs to be noted that the letter sets out that this is for a 
situation when hes not able to use the goods or services paid for. Im conscious that, while 
the management company has gone into liquidation, the hotel has continued to trade and I 
dont think Mr F has provided anything to show that he couldnt use the voucher. I also 
understand the hotel informed BOS that Mr F was still able to use the voucher. I recognise 
Mr F had concerns about travelling to the hotel and that he could incur further expenses if he 
did so. But this isnt enough for me to conclude there was a breach of contract.
Ultimately, in thinking about whether the contract was fulfilled by the supplier, Mr F was 
given a voucher to use in the hotel and he hasnt given us anything to show that he wasnt 
able to use it in the 18 month contractual period. So I cant say theres anything to show 
there was a breach of contract by the supplier.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman