DRN-3734642
The complaint
Mr L (through a representative) complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) gave him loans
he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Mr L was advanced eight home collected loans between August 2017 and April 2021. Ive
included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £400.00 31/08/2017 28/03/2018 33 £20.00
2 £300.00 28/03/2018 28/03/2018 33 £15.00
3 £100.00 08/06/2018 02/03/2019 33 £5.00
4 £100.00 02/03/2019 12/10/2019 33 £5.00
5 £2,000.00 12/10/2019 28/02/2020 53 £70.00
6 £200.00 16/12/2019 27/03/2020 34 £10.00
7 £1,000.00 05/08/2020 04/12/2020 34 £50.00
8 £200.00 29/04/2021 26/11/2021 35 £10.00
Loan two was taken out and repaid on the same day, this means that Mr L wasnt charged
any interest for this loan.
The weekly repayment column in the table above is the cost per week per loan. So, where
loans overlapped Mr Ls weekly commitment was more. For example, when loans 5 and 6
were granted his weekly commitment to Morses was £80 per week.
Following Mr Ls complaint Morses wrote to his representative to explain that it wasnt going
to uphold it because it had carried out proportionate checks before these loans were
advanced.
Mr Ls representative didnt accept the outcome and instead referred the complaint to the
Financial Ombudsman Service.
The case was then considered by an adjudicator and it was partly upheld. He thought it was
fair for Morses to have granted loans 1  3. However, he concluded loans 4 - 8 shouldnt
have been advanced because it was clear that the lending was now harmful for Mr L.
Mr Ls representative appears to have accepted the adjudicators assessment.
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators assessment to uphold loans 4 - 8. In summary it
said:
No evidence has been provided to show that Mr L was using funds from loans in
order to settle his Morses loans.
Eight loans over four years, in Morses view, isnt excessive.
Proportionate checks were carried out before each loan was advanced and these
checks showed the loans to be affordable.
There were breaks between some of the loans, including a five-month break between 
loans 6 and 7.
The reasons Mr L gave for needing these loans was reasonable and not concerning.
The loans were repaid without any difficulties.
As no agreement was reached, the case was passed to me to issue a decision.
I then issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to partially 
uphold Mr Ls complaint about loans 5 and 6 only. Both parties were given an opportunity to 
provide further submissions. A copy of my provisional findings follows this in italics and 
smaller font and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Neither Mr L (or his representative) have disagreed with the adjudicators findings in relation
to loans 1  3. So, it seems this lending isnt in dispute and so I no longer think that I need to
make a finding about them. But I have kept these loans in mind when thinking about the
overall lending relationship between Morses and Mr L.
Instead, this decision will focus on whether it was reasonable to advance loans 4 - 8 to
Mr L.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr L could afford to pay back the amounts hed
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to
the circumstances. Morsess checks couldve taken into account a number of different
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ls income
and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr L. These factors include:
Mr L having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr L having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr L coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr L.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr L could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr L was able to repay his
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without unduedifficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ls complaint.
Loan 4
The adjudicator upheld this loan because he concluded that by now the loan was harmful for
Mr L because it was now unsustainable to continue to lend to him given the time in debt and
his lending hadnt decreased. I can understand why the adjudicator thought this, but I dont
think, Morses wouldve concluded that the loan was now so harmful to Mr L.
I accept, that Mr L had been indebted with Morses for about 18 months, which in some
situations could be a sign that he was now reliant on these types of loans or at the very least
having longer term money management problems. Neither can I ignore that the lending was
almost mostly consecutive, which could show that Mr L had a continued need for credit 
without a break.
But I also have to keep in mind that these loans were for fairly small sums (and were
decreasing in value) and to be repaid over a longer period of time than say a payday loan.
Indeed, loan 4, was Mr Ls smallest loan to date with a weekly repayment of a fairly small
sum of £5 per week.
So, taking everything together, I dont think Morses wouldve, or ought to have, realised this
loan was unsustainable for Mr L, but that doesnt mean Morses did all it shouldve done
before advancing the loan.
The income and expenditure information suggested that Mr L had more than sufficient
disposable income of £250 to afford the weekly repayment of £5. This wouldve reasonably
led Morses to believe that Mr L had sufficient disposable income and could afford the loan
repayments.
But that doesnt mean that Morses carried out a proportionate check. I do think the time in
debt was a factor here and Mr L had taken five weeks longer to repay the previous loan  a
possible sign that there may have been some financial difficulties. These factors ought to
have prompted it to consider whether it knew enough about Mr Ls financial position.
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on what Mr L declared to it
about his income and expenditure. Even though this information suggested Mr L could afford
the loan repayments.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Mr Ls actual financial position to
ensure the loan was affordable and sustainable. This couldve been done in several ways,
such as asking for evidence of his outgoings, or looking at bank statements.
This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other
information that Morses mightve needed to consider about Mr Ls financial position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold this loan, I have to be
satisfied that had Morses carried out a proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered that
Mr L couldnt afford it.
Mr Ls representative hasnt been able to provide copies of his bank statements (which may
have showed us and Morses what other commitments Mr L had and / or his living costs) or
any other information that shows what Mr Ls actual financial position at the time the loan
was given. Therefore, without further information, Im not in a position to conclude that
Morses shouldnt have approved the loan.So, without any further information from Mr L about his other living costs which, its difficult
for me to conclude what Morses wouldve likely seen had it made better checks.
Looking at everything together though, Ive not seen quite enough evidence to suggest
Morses shouldnt have given Mr L loan 4. As this is the case, Im intending to not uphold Mr
Ls complaint about this loan.
Loans 5 and 6
Ive already explained above why I dont think, by this point in time Morses carried out
proportionate check. This is especially true when loan 5 was granted because this was a
significant increase in what Mr L had taken before, and this loan was scheduled to be repaid
over the longest period of time  53 weeks. So, I still think for these loans Morses checks
needed to go further.
However, I do think Morses shouldnt have approved these loans. In addition to looking at
the checks that Morses did Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending history
with Mr L, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Morses should reasonably have
seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Morses should
have realised that it shouldnt have provided these loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ls case, I think that this point was reached by loan
5. I say this because:
At this point Morses ought to have realised Mr L was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr L had taken out 5 loans in this chain of lending within 26 months So Morses 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr L was having to borrow further to cover 
a long term shortfall in his living costs.
 Mr L had shown that hed had problems repaying a previous loan, I think, the fact this had 
happened was an indication that he may have been struggling to meet his
weekly commitments.
Mr Ls weekly commitment to Morses by loan 5 had increased from £20 per week to
£70 per week  this is a significant increase.
From the first loan in this chain onwards, Mr L was generally provided with a new
loan on the same day a previous loan had been repaid.
Mr L wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Morses. Loan six was
taken out over 28 months after Mr Ls first loan. And while his loan was smaller than
the first loan hed taken, he now had a combined weekly repayment of £80, his
commitment to Morses was now four times larger. Mr L had paid large amounts of
interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an extended period.
I think that Mr L lost out because Morses provided loans 5 and 6:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ls indebtedness by allowing him
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr L borrowed was likely to
have had negative implications on Mr Ls ability to access mainstream credit and so
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans 5 and 6 and Ive outlined at the end of this
decision what Morses needs to do in order to put things right for Mr L.
Loans 7 and 8
Again, the adjudicator upheld these loans because he concluded that they continued to be
harmful for Mr L. I can quite understand why the adjudicator concluded this, but I dont agree
and Ive explained why below.There was a break of five months between Mr L repaying loan 6 and taking loan 7 (and 6
months between repaying loan 5 and taking loan 7), and when Mr L returned for further
borrowing this loan was smaller than loan 5.
After successfully repaying loan 7, there was also another break of almost another 5 months, this time 
Mr L returned for a much smaller sum again.
In these circumstances I am not able to conclude that Mr L was reliant on these loans (by
this time) given he had demonstrated that there was time when he didnt need further credit
at all and the value of any new credit was decreasing.
As this is the case, I cant conclude, that solely based on the pattern of lending that both
these loans should be upheld.
However, that still doesnt mean that Morses did all it shouldve done. I still have to consider
that Mr L (for loan 7) was borrowing again, and a sum of £1,000. Taking into account the
total lending relationship I still think it wouldve been reasonable for Morses for have carried
out verification checks into Mr Ls circumstances, even though the information it gathered
before these loans were approved suggested the loan repayments were affordable.
So, like loan 4, I dont think it was reasonable that Morses continued to rely on the
information Mr L was providing it. As Ive said, before Morses ought to have been checking
the information it was given, perhaps with copy bank statements, a credit file or some other
evidence of his living costs. Morses didnt do this so it didnt carry out a proportionate check.
A similar situation arises here as it did at loan 4, as I dont have any information from Mr L
about what his actual living costs / outstanding other credit commitments were at the time I
cant be sure what Morses wouldve likely seen had it carried out a proportionate.
As this is the case, Im also intending to not uphold Mr Ls complaint about loans 7 and 8.
Response to the provisional decision
Both Mr L (and his representative) and Morses were asked to provide any further 
submissions in response to the provisional decision as soon as possible, but no later than 
29 September 2022. 
Morses responded and confirmed it accepted the findings of the provisional decision.
Mr Ls representative also confirmed that he accepted the proposed outcome in the 
provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr L and Morses have accepted the findings of the provisional decision, I see no 
reason to depart from the findings that I previously made. I still think Morses shouldnt have 
approved loans 5 and 6 for Mr L for the reasons given in the provisional decision. 
Ive outlined below what Morses needs to do in order to put things right for Mr L. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not advanced loans 5 and 6, as Im satisfied it ought not to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. For example, having been declined this lending Mr L may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr L in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr L would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses should not have provided Mr L with loans 5 and 6.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr L towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr L which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr L originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled
C. Morses should pay Mr L the total of A plus B.
D. The overall pattern of Mr Ls borrowing for loans 5 and 6 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Morses should remove these loans entirely from 
Mr Ls credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should
give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Ls 
complaint in part.
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mr L as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman