DRN-4391048
The complaint
T, a limited company, says HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly blocked its business account. That 
meant T was prevented from paying its bills until the restrictions were released.
What happened
T held a business account with HSBC. In late 2022, HSBC contacted T to confirm some 
details about its business by March 2023. HSBC referred to this review process as 
Safeguard. 
There were issues with HSBC being able to verify the information T had provided, so it 
ultimately provided notice that it would close the account in May 2023 unless they were 
resolved. HSBC agreed to extend the deadline to June 2023, by which time it successfully 
completed the review. Ts account was unblocked in mid-May.
T eventually brought a complaint to this service as it was unhappy with HSBCs response. 
Our investigator felt that HSBC had valid concerns including around the details T had 
provided and that it couldnt fairly have unblocked the account any sooner than it did.
T didnt accept the investigators findings. It said there were no issues with the information it 
had sent to HSBC and that the unblocking of the account had been unnecessarily delayed. 
As such, the complaint was passed to me to review afresh and reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
I recognise the inconvenience that must have been caused to T in discovering that access to 
its account had been restricted. And that this would have been compounded by the 
difficulties in trying to remove these restrictions. 
While the problems T had in accessing the account ran for a considerable period of time  
and I gather have thankfully now been resolved  I cant see enough evidence to show 
HSBC was at fault for the impact of this. It seems, for example, that T didnt respond to 
several notifications from HSBC believing theyd been sent by scammers.
T suggests the issue leading to restrictions on the account continuing as being unnecessary, 
given the information it had provided to HSBC. But UK banks are required by law to 
undertake certain checks  such as those that gave rise to the issues in this case  to 
prevent fraud and protect customers. These are important checks for financial businesses to 
carry out with potentially serious consequences for them, and their customers, if they dont.
The terms and conditions of the account also set out how HSBC can withdraw services, end 
the agreement or close the account altogether in some circumstances. These include 
account holders not giving it adequate information that its requested. 
Ive carefully considered what HSBC wanted T to provide and what it received to see if it 
acted fairly. I note that, in particular, HSBC wanted clarification of whether individuals not 
referred to by T were, as externally-sourced information indicated to it, shareholders in it. T 
had initially given the name of just one individual as being the 100% ultimate beneficial 
owner. 
T says HSBC was wrong to obtain information from a third-party when it should have 
checked the official register of companies. But I think T was entitled to obtain the information 
from the sources it used, including a widely-recognised firm providing business analysis 
services. 
In any case, the filing history for T for the official register it advocates shows a notification 
dated September 2022. This shows the individual T mentioned to HSBC as having 
significant control in 2020. But this doesnt confirm that the individual was the ultimate 
beneficial owner when HSBC was carrying its Safeguard review in late 2022. According to 
the official registrar, it wasnt until a confirmation statement was published in May 2023 that 
all the other individuals had ceased to be shareholders of T. It was at that point that HSBC 
was prepared to unblock the account.
Taking everything into consideration, I dont believe that HSBC treated T unfairly in seeking 
clarification as it did before unblocking its account. Im sorry to hear of the difficulties T 
encountered in continuing to trade during the period in question, but I dont believe that 
HSBC unduly delayed the matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman