DRN-2195272
The complaint
Mr B complains that Vanquis Bank Limited unfairly registered a default on his account. Mr B 
is unhappy that Vanquis didnt activate the repayment option plan product on his account, 
which led to a default being registered when he was unable to make repayments.
What happened
Mr B had a credit card with Vanquis for a number of years. He had included a product called 
a repayment option plan (ROP) with his account. Mr B paid for this service, which allowed 
him to take a repayment break if he met certain criteria set out in the conditions of the ROP. 
Mr B used the ROP on a number of occasions, including in early 2016 when he was in 
receipt of Universal Credit. 
In late 2016, Mr B asked Vanquis to activate the ROP again when he was made redundant. 
Vanquis asked Mr B for supporting documents to show that he met the eligibility criteria 
under the ROP, but Mr B was unable to provide what he had done previously, because the 
application process for Universal Credit had changed. 
Ultimately, Vanquis didnt think Mr B had provided sufficient evidence to show that he met 
the eligibility criteria for the ROP and so, because hed missed a number of repayments, his 
account was defaulted in November 2016.
Mr B complained to Vanquis. He didnt think the default had been registered fairly. Mr B felt 
that hed provided as much information as he could about his Universal Credit application, 
and that Vanquis should have activated the ROP. Had they done so, the account would have 
been frozen, and the default wouldnt have been applied. 
Mr B has told this service that hes happy to pay back the outstanding debt to Vanquis, but 
hed like the default marker to be removed from his credit file. 
Vanquis have said that the default accurately reflects Mr Bs payment history and has been 
fairly applied. They say that the evidence provided by Mr B didnt show that he was eligible 
under the ROP criteria, and they tried to get supporting evidence from Mr B, but this wasnt 
provided. 
Mr B brought his complaint to our service, and our investigator looked into things. Our 
investigator thought that Vanquis had acted fairly in its refusal to activate the ROP and in 
applying the default. Unhappy with this, Mr B has asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The repayment option plan
The ROP product has a number of criteria that need to be met before it can be activated. 
These are as follows: 
a) one or more of the following events (as applicable) happens; and b) you contact Customer 
Service; and c) you provide us with reasonable evidence of the relevant event.
Mr B asked Vanquis to activate the ROP because hed been made redundant. One of the 
required events is if you become unemployed involuntarily (other than as a result of your 
own misconduct) So, it appears that Mr B met the requirements under both a) and b). 
Vanquis say that Mr B didnt meet the requirement under c), that is, he didnt provide 
reasonable evidence that hed become unemployed involuntarily. 
Mr B provided screen shots to Vanquis to show that hed made an application for Universal 
Credit. Vanquis say this isnt enough, and they need to see that the benefit is being paid, 
and that Mr B has a continued entitlement to receive it. 
Universal credit isnt usually paid where a person leaves a job voluntarily, so I think that 
evidence of a person being in receipt of the benefit is reasonable evidence that they became 
unemployed involuntarily. 
Ive seen the evidence that Mr B was able to provide. The screen shots show that an 
application has been made for Universal Credit, but they dont show that its been accepted 
or that Mr B has a continued entitlement to receive it.
I dont doubt that Mr B had lost his job when he asked Vanquis to activate the ROP in late 
2016, and theres no suggestion that he wasnt entitled to the benefit for which hed made an 
application. But, the application for Universal Credit isnt evidence that Mr B had lost his job 
involuntarily, so I dont think it meets the requirement under c).
Proof that Mr B was in receipt of Universal Credit wasnt the sole evidence that Vanquis 
would accept. They told Mr B that he could provide a number of other documents to satisfy 
the reasonable evidence requirement. I think Mr B could have provided one of these other 
forms of evidence, but he doesnt appear to have done so. So, I find that it wasnt 
unreasonable for Vanquis to have refused to activate the ROP in late 2016 based on the 
evidence Mr B provided. 
The default
Vanquis first issued a default notice to Mr B in late 2015, after Mr Bs account had been over 
its limit for some time, and Mr B had failed to make the required repayments. The account 
was then frozen by way of the ROP in early 2016. When that ended, Mr B didnt make any 
payments. So, when the activation of the ROP was refused in late 2016, the account was 
defaulted. 
Vanquis were aware that Mr B was in a difficult financial situation in 2016, because he was 
asking to activate the ROP due to losing his job. Ive asked Vanquis for details of any 
forbearance options given to Mr B, such as reduced payments or freezing interest. Activation 
of the ROP wasnt the only option for assisting Mr B, but I havent seen any evidence that 
Vanquis considered other options. So, I find that Vanquis could have done more to help Mr B 
repay his debt. 
Having made that finding, I need to decide what, if anything, Vanquis should do to put things 
right. Ive thought about Mr Bs circumstances at the time, and whether he wouldve been able to 
come to an arrangement with Vanquis that wouldve avoided the default. 
In order to avoid the default, Mr B wouldve needed to be able to repay a sum significant 
enough for Vanquis to be satisfied that he would be able to repay his debt in a reasonable 
timeframe, without being unable to service his other arrangements including his normal living 
costs
Based on the history of Mr Bs account, his circumstances at the time and the evidence 
provided, I cant see that he was in a position to have been able to enter into an 
arrangement that would have been acceptable. So, even if Vanquis had explored other 
options to help Mr B repay his debt, I think its more likely than not that Mr Bs account would 
have been defaulted. 
So, although Vanquis should have done more to assess Mr Bs situation, I find that their 
failings here didnt have a material impact on the outcome. I can appreciate that Mr B is 
unhappy with the default being recorded on his credit file, but I dont think Its unreasonable, 
based on the evidence, that the account was ultimately defaulted. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman