DRN-2416776
The complaint
Mr L complains that Leeds Building Society failed to alert him to its mortgage products that 
would have allowed him to move from its standard variable rate (SVR) on his Buy to Let 
mortgage.
What happened
Mr L took out an interest-only buy to let mortgage in 2005. Mr L also had a mortgage product 
which ended in November 2008. Mr L relocated abroad and approached other mortgage 
lenders about a re-mortgage but was told there would be difficulties because of not being 
paid in the UK. Mr L didnt approach Leeds but continued on Leeds SVR since 2008. Mr L is 
disappointed that there were no mechanisms within Leeds to ring bells and flag up the issue, 
that it had alternative mortgage products, to him loud and clear. In 2019, Mr L had some 
backlog on his mortgage payments and in a conversation with a Leeds adviser it was 
suggested that he look at some deals that Leeds had that would make the monthly 
payments easier. Mr L doesnt understand why this wasnt highlighted to him before when he 
had some temporary issues with payments and had flagged up the issue that his monthly 
payments were high compared to the rental income.
Our investigator didnt believe that Leeds had done anything wrong and didnt recommend 
that this complaint should be upheld. Mr L disagreed and asked for a review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L took out a buy to let mortgage which is essentially a commercial mortgage with the 
intention of making a profit on his investment. One of the costs of this business is the interest 
rate. It seems that from 2008, Mr L has paid a higher interest rate than he could have 
achieved by shopping around. Mr L believes that Leeds should have alerted him to this issue
As our investigator has pointed out there isnt the same level of regulation of buy to let 
mortgages than residential mortgages as these are looked on as commercial transactions 
and the management of the mortgage is left to the borrower. I see that when Mr L went onto 
the SVR he got a letter telling him that if he wanted to discuss the mortgage options that he 
could contact Leeds Customer Care team, but Mr L chose not to. I note that Mr L refers to 
being unreasonably locked into an SVR. But it was Mr Ls choice not to contact Leeds to 
ask what the alternatives were. Leeds was providing mortgage services and, importantly, not 
acting as Mr Ls mortgage adviser and I cant see that it did anything wrong.  
I note that Mr L refers to Leeds not meeting the standards it sets in its marketing materials 
and not acting in the best interest of its members. But Leeds invited Mr L to discuss his 
mortgage options and it would be reasonable for it to leave it to him as a person engaged in 
the property business whether he wanted to discuss those options with the Society or not.  
Mr L didnt contact Leeds about alternative mortgage products, which isnt Leeds fault. It 
seems that on some occasions in the past that Mr L had timing issues with his payments and 
contacted Leeds about these and Leeds didnt advise him about other products that would 
have reduced his SVR. But timing issues in payments doesnt indicate financial difficulties 
and there is no indication that Mr L was looking for advice on alternative products. So, I cant 
fairly say that Leeds has done anything wrong and, so, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman