DRN-4280864
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained Santander UK plc wont refund money for two online 
payments they didnt make.
What happened
Mrs C complained to Santander about two payments of £6,000 that were made from her and 
her husbands joint account on 10 and 11 November 2022. She confirmed this couldnt have 
been them. 
Santander believed the factual evidence showed these transactions were made from 
Mrs Cs device registered to their account. Mrs C hadnt reported being a victim of a scam, 
so they believed these payments must have been authorised.
Mrs C brought their complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence but also felt this showed Mrs C authorised the 
payments. 
Mrs C still disagreed and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr and Mrs Cs complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but 
nothing else specific in Mr and Mrs Cs case other than those factors I mention below.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Santander and Mrs C have told us.
I believe the evidence shows Mrs C authorised the online transaction. I say this because:
A new payee was set up in Mrs Cs own name to a different account. This shows up 
on Mrs Cs Santander record and was recorded as a match between name and 
account details. This suggested another account being held at another bank (Ill call 
R) in Mrs Cs name.
Mrs C denied having an account with R. However R was able to supply our service 
with the account opening records (for November 2022) and the usage made of the 
account. I was also able to see the ID provided when opening the account included 
Mrs Cs passport. Queries to this account resulted in Mrs C providing current 
photographs of herself to validate the query she then made when transactions were 
blocked.
The account details and usage supplied by R also showed the type of transactions 
being undertaken by Mrs C.
Two payments were made to Mrs Cs account with R for £6,000 each. These were 
enabled by a £25,000 loan credited to Mr and Mrs Cs Santander account. They 
denied taking out this loan and ended up repaying this almost immediately. So Mr 
and Mrs C believed they remained £12,000 out of pocket.
The audit records provided to our service by Santander indicate the devices used 
were registered to the Santander account and had been used previously. Mrs C 
vehemently denied thered been any attempt at taking over their mobile devices or 
laptop.
Santander blocked the payment attempted for £19,000 to Mrs Cs account with R. 
This attempt was after two payments of £6,000 were successfully made.
The audit records shows the IP address used when the payments were made. This 
roughly matches Mrs Cs home location. Whilst IP addresses arent conclusive 
evidence, they can be useful alongside other supporting evidence.
Like Santander, I did wonder whether this had the hallmarks of a scam. But Ive contacted 
Mrs C and asked her further questions to check whether there was anything else happening 
around this time or if there was further evidence she wished to provide. Nothing was 
forthcoming.
I am always wary of believing the customer must have made the transaction in the absence 
of any other explanation, but in this case Ive been presented with no reason why this didnt 
happen. The evidence points to Mrs C making and authorising these payments herself. 
Whether  based on the evidence R provided  Mrs C regretted making these payments, I 
dont know. However I wont be asking Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint against 
Santander UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman