DRN-2333329
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy National House-Building Council (NHBC) has declined a claim 
they made on their NHBC Buildmark warranty.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C bought a new home. It was covered by a ten-year NHBC warranty which 
began in December 2014.
In September 2019 Mr and Mrs C made a claim to NHBC for a problem with their flooring. 
NHBC initially declined the claim based on the photos Mr and Mrs C had sent them. Mr and 
Mrs C asked NHBC to visit their home and inspect the problem. NHBC did that and reported 
on what it found. In summary, it said the claim was declined because the flooring hadnt 
been completed by the builder of the new home  it had been completed by tradesmen that 
Mr and Mrs C had asked to do the work.
Mr and Mrs C didnt think the written report accurately reflected the conversation theyd had 
with the NHBC inspector. They also said all the work, including the flooring, had been carried 
out with the builders agreement, the builder had paid for it, and it was all done prior to 
completion of the property and the handover to Mr and Mrs C. They complained.
NHBC said the warranty provided cover for putting right any physical damage to the home 
caused by a defect. It accepted this is what had happened. But it agreed with the reason in 
the report for declining the claim. It invited Mr and Mrs C to provide evidence to confirm the 
flooring was installed by the builder.
Mr and Mrs C referred their complaint to this service and provided us with e-mails to show 
communication between the various parties involved during the build. The investigator 
considered the complaint. He was satisfied NHBC had acted fairly because he didnt think 
the evidence showed the builder had installed the flooring or had been responsible for the 
tradesmen who did.
Mr and Mrs C thought this conclusion was unfair and made a number of points. In summary 
they questioned whether the flooring was the cause of the problem. They said they had 
taken advice which suggested it wasnt. In their view the builder had overall responsibility for 
completing the building work at the property  including work done by other tradesmen prior 
to completion. So they thought the builder was responsible for the flooring and their claim 
should be covered.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view and so the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
. Having done so, I think NHBC has acted fairly, so I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
Ill explain why.
The problem Mr and Mrs C have claimed for is damage to a tiled floor. NHBCs report shows 
a floor tile was lifted. NHBCs inspector considered the underside of it revealed inadequate 
adhesion had left the tile free to move. And that movement had gradually caused the grout 
between the tiles to become damaged. The report shows how the grout has deteriorated and 
allowed the tiles to become loose. In summary, NHBC considers the problem has been 
caused by the way the tiles were laid, including the adhesive.
Mr and Mrs C have questioned whether this a fair assessment of the cause of the problem. 
They have mentioned taking advice from two experts  one a floor specialist and the other a 
surveyor. Mr and Mrs C say both experts consider the problem might not be with the tiling 
itself and might be to do with the sub-floor which supports the tiling. Mr and Mrs C have been 
unable to obtain a written report or comments from either expert. As a result neither NHBC 
nor this service has been able to consider their expert opinions.
NHBC are experts in house building and the defects that can arise. Without any expert 
opinion to challenge what NHBC has found during its inspection, I accept NHBCs opinion 
that the cause of the problem is the tiling and adhesive.
I know Mr and Mrs C say NHBCs report isnt an accurate reflection of the discussion had 
during the inspection. They have provided a recording of some of that discussion. Ive 
listened to it and Im satisfied its consistent with the report  the NHBC inspector can be 
heard saying the problem is definitely the adhesive. I appreciate the discussion continued 
after the recording ended. But without evidence of what was said, Im not persuaded it would 
be fair for me to conclude the report is inaccurate.
Because the claim was made more than three years into the policy, NHBC has considered it 
under Section 3. There are a number of terms within that section of the warranty but the key 
one for this complaint is that NHBC will cover the cost of putting right physical damage 
caused by a Defect in the home.
The warranty defines the word Defect to mean:
The breach of any mandatory NHBC Requirement by the Builder or anyone employed by or 
acting for the Builder
The warranty defines the word Builder to mean:
The firm or company named in a Buildmark Offer who is responsible for building the home
The Builder in this case is a company who Ill refer to as P.
NHBC has accepted theres been physical damage to the tiling and grout. And it seems to 
have accepted theres been a breach of its requirements. For the claim to be covered, the 
breach must have been by P itself, anyone employed by P or anyone acting for P. NHBC 
doesnt think this was the case, which is why it has declined the claim.
It seems to be accepted that P didnt carry out this work itself. Mr and Mrs C have explained 
that company A provided tiling and adhesive materials. And company J carried out the tiling 
work. Theyve also explained that the amount they paid P for the new home included an 
allowance for, amongst other things, flooring finishes. From that allowance P paid A and J.Mr and Mrs C have said they had Ps authority to use other suppliers and tradesmen, 
including A and J. From the e-mails Ive seen, Im satisfied P agreed for Mr and Mrs C to use 
companies A and J to supply and fit the flooring. And Ive seen invoices from each company 
made out directly to P. But that doesnt necessarily mean either company was employed by 
or acting for P. 
To be satisfied one party was employed by or acting for another party, I would usually expect 
to see some kind of contract or arrangement between the two parties to set out the terms of 
their relationship. Or that one party behaves in a way which shows they control or influence 
the other party and have effectively taken responsibility for them.
Ive looked at the e-mails Mr and Mrs C have provided and Ive thought carefully about the 
way theyve described what happened. They refer to J as the tiler that we suggested and
provided P with details of A and Js contact information, quote references and anticipated 
notice times for beginning work. They asked P how payments would be organised and P 
said when you know who you are going with, we can sort out payments.
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs C chose to use A and J and introduced them to P. There doesnt 
seem to have been any direct relationship between P and A or J before or during the work to 
build Mr and Mrs Cs home. I havent seen anything to suggest P negotiated the schedule of 
work or the cost involved with A or J. Rather, Mr and Mrs C told P how much of the 
allowance they were spending with A and J and what it was for. P agreed to accommodate 
those companies into the scheduled building work and pay the amounts out of the 
allowance.
Based on the information Ive seen, Im not satisfied A or J was employed by or acting for P. 
And as P didnt carry out the tiling work, Im satisfied it was fair for NHBC to decline the claim 
based on the policy terms noted above.
Mr and Mrs C have said P was the building expert and had overall responsibility for all work 
done within the property prior to completion and handover to Mr and Mrs C  regardless of 
who carried that work out. They arent building professionals themselves, so they consider 
that if P allowed them to introduce tradesmen of their choosing, that was or ought to have 
been at Ps risk. And thats a risk the NHBC warranty should cover.
This complaint is against NHBC  not P. So I cant make any findings about P or what P may 
have been responsible for. NHBC isnt responsible for P. Its responsible for fulfilling the 
terms and conditions of the warranty held by Mr and Mrs C. That includes the terms above. 
And I think theyre clear that in this situation they dont cover any breach of the NHBC 
Requirements that may have been caused by A or J.
If Mr and Mrs C are able to obtain a report from either of the experts theyve mentioned 
about the cause of the problem  or any other they chose to seek advice from  theyre 
entitled to provide that new evidence to NHBC. And I would expect NHBC to consider it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman