DRN-4461404
The complaint
Mr S has complained about how Alwyn Insurance Company Limited (Alwyn) dealt with a 
claim under a home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr S contacted Alwyn when rodents were found in a property he rented to tenants and the 
toilet flush broke. Alwyn agreed to send someone to deal with the rodents, but said the toilet 
issue wasnt covered by the policy. Alwyn had problems contacting Mr S and his tenant to 
arrange a visit to deal with the rodents, so closed the claim.
When Mr S complained, Alwyn agreed to pay Mr Ss invoice for the work to deal with the 
rodents, but wouldnt cover costs to fix the toilet. So, Mr S complained to this service. Our 
investigator upheld the complaint. She said the toilet should have been dealt with as a home 
emergency, as it was the only working toilet in the house. She said Alwyn should pay £160 
for the cost to fix the toilet and interest on that amount.
As Mr S didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When Alwyn responded to the complaint, it agreed to pay Mr Ss costs for dealing with the 
rodent issue, which I think was fair. However, it said it wouldnt deal with the toilet. So, Ive 
thought about this.
I listened to the phone call when Mr S first reported the issue with the toilet flush. The call 
handler told Mr S the toilet wasnt covered by the policy because it wasnt a leak. The policy 
said it covered:
Emergency repairs following an emergency which occurs as a result of a failure, blockage, 
leak or damage to the toilet bowl or cistern. Please note that an authorised repairer will not 
be able to assist if there is any other functioning toilet in your property at the time of the 
emergency which a tenant is able to access
So, the policy covered more than leaks from a toilet. Its also my understanding this was the 
only toilet in the property. I think a toilet flush could be regarded as part of the cistern and it 
had failed. So, in my view, this should have been covered under the policy. So, I think Alwyn 
should refund Mr S the £160 he paid for this to be repaired. It should also pay 8% simple 
interest on that amount because Mr S lost use of that money.
Mr S also wanted Alwyn to pay for a nights alternative accommodation for his tenants. Its 
my understanding that Mr S gave his tenants £200, which he has described as being for 
incidental expenses. However, when I listened to the phone calls to request a visit, I didnt 
hear Mr S mention this and I also havent seen anything that showed me this was raised with 
Alwyn as part of the complaint Im considering. So, Im unable to comment on this any 
further, as it doesnt form part of this complaint.
Putting things right
Alwyn should pay Mr S £160 to cover the cost of the toilet repair, along with interest.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
Alwyn Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay Mr S £160 to cover the cost of the toilet repair
Pay 8% simple interest on that amount calculated from one month after the claim was 
submitted to the date on which it makes the payment to Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman