DRN-1817143
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limited. She isnt happy about 
the way it dealt with a claim under her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The policy holder, Mrs M, had an accident in December 2018. Mr M was a passenger in the 
car with Mrs M and has since assisted her with the claim. Mr and Mrs M reported the 
accident to Admiral the same day and Admiral said the claim would likely be disputed.
The claim was eventually settled on a split liability basis, but Mr and Mrs M werent happy 
about this. They maintained that the other driver was fully at fault. So, they complained to 
Admiral about this and a number of issues around poor service, delay and its investigation of 
the claim.
Admiral acknowledged that its service couldve been better and that it communicated poorly 
with Mrs M about what was happening and offered £175 in compensation and an apology. 
But it maintained that it had investigated the claim fairly. As Mr and Mrs M remained 
unhappy, they complained to this service. 
Our investigator considered the evidence and thought that Admiral should pay Mrs M a 
further £75 (£250 in total) to reflect the additional trouble and upset caused by the delays in 
contacting the witness, the confusion regarding the passengers in the other sides car, and 
the errors contained within the incorrect final response letter issued in late October 2019. 
However, the investigator thought that Admiral did nothing wrong when Mrs M cancelled the 
policy after an auto-renewal, as it returned the funds within a reasonable time.
Admiral agreed with our investigator. But Mr and Mrs M maintained that the response didnt 
reflect the delay and upset Admirals poor communication and handling of the claim caused 
them. So, the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have considered all the relevant details of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, I dont 
propose to go over all the detail. The crux of the complaint is that Mr and Mrs M dispute 
liability, which was settled on a split liability basis (50/50). And they believe that Admirals 
poor investigation and delay has impacted upon this. So, I will focus on the liability issue, but 
I will also consider the level of service that Admiral provided.
Mr and Mrs M feel Admiral didnt assess the liability of the claim correctly and feel their claim 
was prejudiced. However, Admiral received a witness statement that it didnt consider 
supportive as it wasnt clear about how far from the junction the accident had happened. It 
also considered Mrs Ms initial comments that she hadnt looked behind when pulling away 
from a stationary position. And that the other side would be disputing liability because it said 
its client wasnt speeding. Admirable sought legal advice about the claim and decided that 
the claim should be settled on a split liability basis.
This Service doesnt decide liability for an accident, which is a matter for the courts. But we 
do consider whether an insurer, Admiral in this case, acted in accordance with the policy 
terms and fairly.
Admiral is entitled to make such a decision, and I consider it was a reasonable and fair one 
in the circumstances of this case. In line with most insurers Admiral has a clause in the 
policy that allows it to take over the defence or settlement of any claim.. Im satisfied that 
once it made the decision liability should be split, it was reasonably entitled to settle the 
claim in line with the insurance policy terms and conditions. And I dont think Admiral did 
anything wrong here as it considered all the evidence, as outlined above, and it took legal 
advice on its chances of success before making its decision. 
However, I can understand Mr and Mrs Ms frustration with how the claim and investigation 
was dealt with. Admiral incorrectly said that Mrs M told it her car was an inch away from the 
kerb when it wasnt. And it couldve communicated more clearly about its attempts to contact 
the independent witness. But it did try and contact the witness after his initial account wasnt 
completely supportive of Mrs M, but the witness didnt wish to cooperate further. I dont think 
any of this affected the way the claim was settled although I accept that the service and 
communication was poor.
Furthermore, I can see that matters have also been made worse as Admirals interviewer 
didnt fully understand that Mr M was a passenger in Mrs Ms car as opposed to the third-
party car. The confusion here seems to be that there were two personal injury claims. The 
first was Mr Ms claim against Mrs M that was settled in May 2019. The second was a claim 
made by a third party who claimed to be in the other car at the time of the accident. 
Although I havent seen the letter 1 October 2019 Admiral accepts it was sent. And that it 
told Mrs M it had received notification of a personal injury claim for Mr M. It seems this letter 
was intended to advise Mrs M of a personal injury claim from a third party who claimed to be 
in the other car and Admiral has admitted it got this wrong and apologised for the oversight. 
This wouldve undermined Mr and Mrs Ms confidence in Admirals ability to investigate the 
claim in a fair and reasonable way. I think Admiral should recognise this with a further 
financial payment to Mrs M. 
There was also a personal injury claim from the occupants of the other vehicle and this is 
being handled by AL, who are a law firm and are regulated by the SRA. This service cant 
investigate complaints against AL. If Mrs M requires updates on the progress of claim, I think 
it would be reasonable for her to contact AL or Admiral, but I would expect AL to be able to 
provide a more informed update on this part of the claim. I dont think it would be 
unreasonable for Admiral to signpost Mrs M to AL if it feels AL could provide a more detailed 
update.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M feel we shouldve told them earlier we couldnt investigate 
complaints about AL. However, I have reviewed the initial complaints Mr and Mrs M made 
and they were about the service Admiral provided. The complaints now suggest that there 
was breakdown of communication between Admiral and AL. But from the recent 
correspondence sent by Mr and Mrs M, it seems to me that there is reference to AL not 
returning calls and not knowing the updated position of the claims. In my opinion, these are 
matters that should be raised directly to AL.
Mr and Mrs M say that Admiral shouldnt have allowed the policy to be auto-renewed. And 
that Admiral shouldnt have taken the payment because there were complaints outstanding. I dont consider this is a reasonable view. The complaints Mr and Mrs M made to Admiral 
before the policy was due for renewal had received final responses. There were no 
outstanding complaints at this time. I can understand Mr and Mrs M may have been unhappy 
with the response from Admiral, but it had addressed the complaints.
When Mrs M told Admiral she didnt wish to renew the policy, it returned the funds within 48 
hours. Admiral explained that its process only allows funds to be returned after this period. 
But regardless of this, I dont consider 48 hours is an unreasonable time for funds to be 
returned. So, I think Admiral acted reasonably in this regard.
Putting things right
Ive considered all the comments Mr and Mrs M provided to the investigator. In doing so, I 
dont agree with Mr and Mrs M that the cumulative effect of the upheld complaints requires 
any further remedy than the £75.00 the investigator suggested. Admiral made some 
mistakes during the claim, but these didnt have any impact on how liability was assessed. 
I have considered Admiral has already paid Mr and Mrs M £175 and provided an apology for 
the things it got wrong. But I dont think this takes into account the additional distress and 
inconvenience the letter of 1 October 2019 caused Mr and Mrs M. And when Admiral didnt 
make it clear to its interviewer what Mr Ms status was before the November 2019 visit. It will 
be a disappointment to Mr and Mrs M, but I will tell Admiral to pay an additional £75 remedy 
to reflect the additional distress and inconvenience these issues caused.
Im satisfied that a total remedy of £250 for the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs M 
suffered is reasonable in all the circumstances, and it is what I would have considered 
reasonable when looking at all the complaints.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and I will ask Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mrs M, as the policy holder, an additional £75 (£250 in total).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman