DRN-3919911
The complaint
Mr G complains about RAC Insurance Limiteds (RAC) handling of his claim following a
breakdown, under his roadside assistance policy.
What happened
Mr G was driving through Europe when his car broke down. He contacted RAC and it
arranged for a recovery agent to attend. The car couldnt be repaired at the roadside and
was recovered to a nearby garage.
Mr G says a diagnosis of his car wasnt carried out. He says this meant RAC didnt know if
his car could be repaired. He says it later told him the car couldve been fixed by 24 July
2021. Because it couldve been repaired by this date, which was the date he had planned to
return home, it meant the policy didnt provide for repatriation of his car back to the UK.
Mr G says he received no help to get a hire car. RAC said one could be provided but he
could only use it within Germany, where the car had broken down. Mr G was travelling to
Poland, so this wasnt helpful. He eventually arranged for his car to be towed to his final
destination but had to pay for everything himself. This was expensive and caused Mr G
significant distress. He describes being left alone with his two-year-old child and partner,
without support from RAC.
RAC says Mr G didnt authorise the garage to carry out a diagnosis of the problem. When it
spoke to the garage it identified the probable cause of the breakdown as a defective oil
pump, which it estimated wouldve been repaired by 19 July 2021. Alternatively, if it was the
timing chain, this would likely be repaired by 24 July.
RAC says both repairs wouldve been complete prior to Mr Gs planned return date. It says
cover isnt provided for a car to be repatriated to the UK in these circumstances. RAC says it
will contribute to labour costs if a vehicle can be fixed on the same day and continue with its
journey. But it says this wasnt possible here.
In its complaint response RAC says a tow to Poland wasnt possible, as this wasnt a service
its agent was able to provide.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with RACs response and referred his complaint to our service. Our
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She thought it was necessary for the cause of the
problem to be diagnosed. Because Mr G didnt authorise the garage to do this, repatriation
to the UK wasnt covered by his policy. Our investigator thought RAC had behaved
reasonably by offering a number of different options to assist Mr G.
Our investigator says that Mr G hasnt submitted a claim for his costs to RAC for it to
consider. She says that if hes dissatisfied once his claim for costs has been processed, he
can raise a complaint.
Mr G didnt think this was fair and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mr Gs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read Mr Gs policy terms and conditions to understand the cover he has in place. The
terms say:
Section D2  Roadside Assistance in Europe
What is covered under section D2:
If the vehicle breaks down or is involved in a road traffic collision in Europe during a journey,
we will send help to either:
Repair the vehicle at the roadside. This could be a permanent or temporary repair; or
 If we are unable to repair the vehicle at the roadside, we will:
a) recover the vehicle and passengers to a local garage for fault diagnosis on the vehicle;
b) pay for the initial fault diagnosis to find the next course of action;
c) contribute towards the garage labour charges up to £150 when the vehicle can be
repaired on the same day;
d) help you purchase replacement parts if they cannot be found locally, and pay for them to
be delivered; and
e) we will also relay any urgent messages from the driver to a contact of their choice.
And:
Section D3  Onward travel in Europe
What is covered under section D3:
If the vehicle breaks down or is involved in a road traffic collision during a journey in
Europe and we establish that the repairs cannot be completed within 12 hours, we will help
the driver by making arrangements for the passengers to continue the journey. The driver
can choose either:
 Alternative transport; or
 Additional accommodation expenses.
Alternative transport
 A hire car as a replacement until the vehicle has been fixed for up to 14 consecutive days;
or
 A standard class ticket up to £125 per person per day and £1,500 in total for travel by
air, rail, taxi or public transport.
Also:
Section D4  Getting your vehicle home
What is covered under section D4:
If we attend a breakdown or a road traffic collision in Europe under Section D2 and the
vehicle cannot be repaired before the drivers planned return to the UK, we will arrange andpay for:
 Recovery of the vehicle to a single destination of the drivers choice within the UK; and
 Storage charges for the vehicle whilst awaiting the vehicle to be returned to the UK.
The terms say RAC will pay for the initial diagnosis. I asked why it didnt authorise and pay
for the garage in Germany to carry out the initial diagnosis. It says the preliminary diagnosis
was a problem with the oil pressure. To dismantle the engine and perform a full diagnosis it
was estimated this would cost around 450 Euros. RAC says this was needed to determine
the cost of repairs and extent of the damage.
RAC says in a normal scenario it would ask the garage for a diagnosis. If the garage tells it
that it needs authorisation from the customer, it contacts the customer to advise. It says it
will advise the customer of the estimated costs for this. RAC says to identify who pays for
the extensive dismantling and understand the time delay, costs, and parts needed for the
repair, this depends on what happens with the car.
RAC says if extensive dismantling was necessary to confirm eligibility for repatriation to the
UK, it would cover the 450 Euro diagnosis cost. But if the car is repaired, then the
dismantling cost is part of the total repairs paid for by Mr G.
RAC says it doesnt think it failed to apply section D2 from its policy terms correctly. It says
Mr G didnt allow it to follow its normal protocol from the start and didnt provide his consent
for a full diagnosis to be carried out. RAC says as Mr G requested his vehicle to be towed to
Poland on the day of the breakdown, a full diagnosis wasnt possible.
In its response RAC says, subject to interpretation the term, initial fault diagnosis is not
the same as a full diagnosis. It says the garages initial fault diagnosis was an oil pressure
issue and the car not starting. To get a full diagnosis would have taken a few days, which
RAC says Mr G declined.
Ive thought about RACs explanation of the term initial fault diagnosis. I cant see that this is
explained in the policy terms anywhere. Section D2 says RAC will pay for the initial fault
diagnosis to find the next course of action. It continues to then explain it will contribute up to
£150 towards garage labour costs if the vehicle can be repaired on the same day. The terms
make clear that other than the above contribution the repairs costs are Mr Gs responsibility.
Section 4 then describes how RAC will pay for a vehicle to be repatriated back to the UK if it
cant be repaired before the customer is due to travel home. Storage charges are also
included in the policy cover.
Having considered this, I dont think RACs policy terms are clear that the cost of diagnosing
the problem, in full, isnt covered.
RAC suggests, the next course of action, means the work to dismantle the engine and
diagnose the fault. But I dont think a reasonable person would think this.
I think a reasonable person would expect the policy to cover the cost of diagnosing the fault.
The next course of action is the required repairs. This may be an immediate repair with a
contribution up to £150 from RAC, a longer repair with assistance from RAC in purchasing
parts and communicating urgent messages, or repatriation of the vehicle to the UK if it cant
be repaired by the customers planned date of return.
We asked Mr G to show what the repairs to his car entailed. He has supplied an invoice
showing that extensive work was required. The repair costs are in excess of £7,000. He sayshis car was stuck in Europe for over a year due to supply issues obtaining the parts needed
for the repairs. He describes how this ruined his holiday and created further issues in relation
to his work.
Ive thought about RACs comments that Mr G didnt follow its protocols and was intent on
having his car towed to his destination country. But having considered the communication
that took place, Mr G was told he had to pay 450 Euros for the problem to be diagnosed.
RAC should have paid for this. It didnt, and so Mr Gs actions were unfairly influenced by
this when trying to find a cost-effective way of dealing with the situation.
I think its clear from the repairs that were carried out that there was little chance of Mr Gs
car being repaired before his planned return to the UK. RACs policy terms provide for
repatriation to the UK in these circumstances. I think this is what shouldve happened here.
Ive thought about the impact on Mr G because this didnt happen. He has incurred costs
when arranging for his car to be towed to his final destination in Europe. I think its fair that
RAC refunds this cost. In addition to the storage costs. It should also pay Mr G for any
reasonable costs incurred in returning his car to the UK. Had his car been repatriated by
RAC these costs wouldnt have been incurred.
Ive also thought about Mr Gs concerns that he wasnt provided with a hire car. RAC says
the German hire companies required a credit card to be provided before a car is provided.
As Mr G didnt have a credit card  this couldnt be arranged. RAC also explained that due to
Covid-19 restrictions at the time hire companies werent allowing their vehicles to cross
borders into other countries. However, it advised Mr G to complete its pay and claim process
to claim his costs back. It says his policy covers up to £125 per day for a maximum of 14
days.
I can understand Mr Gs frustration that he had to arrange a hire car and pay for this himself.
But in the circumstances described I dont think there was a viable alternative. RAC should
refund Mr G for these costs up to the limits set out in his policy  but I think its instructions
that this could be done following its pay and claim process was reasonable.
Having considered all of this I accept that RAC engaged with Mr G and offered some
alternative solutions. But none of this shouldve happened had it paid for the fault to be
diagnosed. His car could then have been repatriated to the UK.
It must have been very distressing for Mr G and his family when their car broke down in a
foreign country. RAC didnt handle the situation as it ought to which made matters worse.
This resulted in a greater level of distress, inconvenience, and frustration than it should
have. Because of this I think RAC should pay Mr G £350 compensation.
I said I was intending to uphold Mr Gs complaint and RAC should:
pay the towing costs on receipt of proof of payment;
refund the storage costs paid by Mr G;
pay the reasonable costs demonstrated by Mr G in returning his car to the UK; and
pay £350 compensation to acknowledge the distress, inconvenience, and frustration 
it caused Mr G.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr G responded to say he didnt think the compensation was enough. He says had RAC followed its procedures it wouldve helped him avoid big repair costs. He says in the UK he 
wouldve sold the car for spare parts or repair it, pay off his finance agreement and buy 
something cheaper. 
RAC responded to say Mr G had unrealistic expectations that the garage would be able to 
diagnose his car immediately. It says its terms are clear that an initial diagnosis is covered 
but any further diagnosis is not. RAC also says Mr G refused to give authority for any 
diagnosis so the garage couldnt have told him what was causing the issue. 
RAC says Mr G wanted his car towed to Poland. This was outside the policy entitlements. It 
says it told him if it agreed to pay for this, no further services would be provided. RAC says 
the option of repatriation was discussed between it and its European partner. But the costs 
of towing to Poland were cheaper, and this was Mr Gs preferred option, so these costs were 
agreed. 
RAC says its unsure why it should be liable for storage costs whilst Mr Gs car was at the 
garage in Germany. It says he had agreed if towing services were provided to Poland this 
would be the end of any services it provided. RAC doesnt think it should pay for storage for 
the time it took Mr G to arrange for a tow.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Gs view that RAC should pay him a higher compensation amount than I 
recommended. I understand he was caused distress and inconvenience because the 
business didnt treat him fairly according to its policy terms. But based on the evidence Ive 
seen I think £350 is a reasonable compensation payment. I note Mr Gs reference to selling 
his car or selling it for parts. But I dont think hes shown that this is something he was 
prevented from doing. 
RAC points to Mr Gs unrealistic expectations and that its policy provides for an initial 
diagnosis. However, as explained in my provisional decision, I dont think the terms are clear 
in this respect. A reasonable person would expect the wording in the policy terms to provide 
for the fault to be diagnosed. Whereas Mr G was told he had to pay 450 Euros to have the 
fault diagnosed. Because it didnt agree to pay for the diagnosis Mr G took alternative action 
to try and minimise his costs. 
I acknowledge RACs view on Mr Gs preference for a tow to Poland, and its comments 
about storage charges. But had the fault diagnosis been carried out and paid for by RAC, Mr 
G will have been in an informed position to decide what to do next. The policy terms provide 
for repatriation where the repairs cant be completed before the policyholders planned return 
date. Based on the extensive repairs Mr G has shown were necessary, its unlikely the car 
would be repaired before his planned return. RAC shouldve offered repatriation having 
diagnosed the fault. Had it done so the storage costs would also have been covered under 
Mr Gs policy.
Although I have carefully considered the further comments provided by both parties, Im not 
persuaded these comments warrant a change to my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that RAC Insurance Limited should:pay the towing costs on receipt of proof of payment;
refund the storage costs paid by Mr G;
pay the reasonable costs demonstrated by Mr G in returning his car to the UK; and
pay £350 compensation to acknowledge the distress, inconvenience, and frustration
it caused Mr G. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman