DRN-1484094
 
The complaint
Miss H has complained about a loan granted to her by Elevate Credit International Limited 
trading as Sunny (Sunny or the lender). Miss H says that she was having difficulty with 
her existing debt and Sunny should not have agreed to lend to her because she could not 
afford the repayments.
 What happened
Sunny agreed a loan for Miss H for £250 in February 2019. It was to be repaid over six 
months with a monthly repayment of about £83.
Our adjudicator already looked into Miss Hs complaint and didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He explained that Sunny had gathered enough information to reasonably assess 
whether Miss H could meet her repayments in a sustainable manner. He found that Sunny 
hadnt irresponsibly lent on this occasion because it seemed from the information it gathered 
that Miss H would be able to repay her loan without difficulty. 
Miss H didnt agree with this recommendation and so the complaint has come to me, as an 
ombudsman, for review and final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Ive followed that 
approach here. 
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator when Miss H took out her loan. The 
relevant rules and guidance set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) said that 
before lending Sunny needed to make a reasonable assessment of Miss Hs 
creditworthiness. This meant that it needed to check that Miss H could meet her repayments 
out of her normal income without having to go without or borrow further and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks Sunny needed to carry out in order 
to reasonably assess whether Miss H would be able to meet her repayments sustainably. 
But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggests that the 
same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same 
consumer in all circumstances.
CONC 5. 5A.21(R) stated that The extent and scope of the creditworthiness assessment, 
and the steps that the firm must take to satisfy the requirement that the assessment is a 
reasonable one, based on sufficient information, are dependent upon, and proportionate to, 
the individual circumstances of each case.And CONC 5.5A.22(G) stated that  When considering, having regard to the factors in
CONC 5.5A.21R, what steps the firm needs to undertake to make the creditworthiness 
assessment a reasonable one, the firm should consider whether the factors point towards a 
more or less rigorous assessment. Certain factors may point towards a more rigorous 
assessment and others towards a less rigorous one in which case the firm should weigh up 
the factors before deciding what type of creditworthiness assessment is required.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means in Miss Hs case. Having done so, I am not upholding her 
complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for her and I hope my explanation 
below makes it clear why Ive come to this conclusion.  
Sunny says it asked Miss H for information about her regular income and expenses when 
she applied for a loan. The lender recorded her monthly income as £1,300 and her monthly 
expenses, including debt repayments, as about £750. 
Sunny also said that it used information from third party credit reference agencies to ensure 
the loan was affordable for Miss H and to check her credit history. It hasnt provided the 
results of these checks but it has provided a summary which states that Miss H had one 
outstanding loan from another short term provider. The summary also states that there were 
no bankruptcies, debt management plans, recent county court judgements or defaults 
recorded on her credit file. It doesnt show the amount of her existing debt or how much she 
was paying towards this.
Miss H says that Sunnys obligation to carry out proportionate checks wasnt waived simply 
because she was a first time applicant. She says that Sunny cannot have carried out 
proportionate checks because it would have seen the difficulties she was having at the time. 
Miss H explained that she had a history of borrowing from payday lenders. At the time Sunny 
agreed her loan she had an overdraft, a credit card and a loan from another short term 
lender. Miss H also says that shed missed payments on her credit card and her loan. 
Im sorry to hear that things have not been easy for Miss H. I appreciate her strength of 
feeling on this matter and can understand why she feels Sunny shouldnt have agreed to 
lend to her at this time. Let me start by saying that I agree that a lender has no less an 
obligation to carry out a reasonable assessment of the risk to first time applicants of not 
being able to meet their repayments sustainably than it has in the case of more frequent 
applicants. However, I think the assessment Sunny carried out here was in proportion to the 
circumstances. In Miss Hs case, she took out one loan to be repaid in instalments. So she 
didnt have a previous borrowing relationship with Sunny that the lender ought to have taken 
into account. The loan repayments didnt take up such a significant proportion of her monthly 
income that this alone might render the lending irresponsible  the repayments were £83 a 
month and shed told the lender her income was £1,300. And it seems from the information 
Miss H gave Sunny about her expenses that she had enough disposable income to meet her 
loan repayments each month, while meeting her current credit commitments. 
I have borne in mind that the information someone might see when they request a copy of 
their credit file might be different to information from a credit reference agency seen by a 
lender. A lender might only see a small portion of the credit file or some data might be 
missing or anonymised. The data might not be up to date, or the lender may not have 
requested all of the available data from the credit reference agency. 
In some cases I might think that a lender ought to have taken steps to understand the full 
extent of a borrowers financial situation.  Sunny said that it didnt find anything in its checks 
to suggest that it ought to have looked further into Miss Hs financial situation before 
agreeing to lend to her and, from what Ive seen, that seems to be the case. And, given the 
circumstances of this loan, I think Sunny carried out proportionate checks here. 
So I cant say that Sunny ought to have done more to assess the affordability of the loan for 
Miss H or that it made an irresponsible lending decision based on the information it had 
available. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am not upholding Miss Hs complaint and I dont make any 
award against Elevate Credit International Limited trading as Sunny.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman