DRN-2093492
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the compensation he was offered by British Gas Insurance Limited 
when he complained about the service provided as part of his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr H had a boiler service carried out by British Gas under his HomeCare policy. During the 
visit, the engineer identified that a new a new part needed to be fitted. A few months after it 
was fitted, Mr H found a fault with his central heating system. Mr H contacted British Gas, 
who sent an engineer. The engineer diagnosed a faulty valve, cleared the fault, tested the 
system, which showed everything was working, and then left. 
An hour or so later, the fault happened again. Mr H contacted British Gas and it sent another 
engineer the next day. This engineer found the fault and fixed it, which he said was due to 
the installation of the part a few months before. 
Mr H complained to British Gas. He was unhappy that the fault was due to the new part that 
British Gas had installed, that he had to wait a week for an engineer to carry out a repair and 
that a second engineer then had to be called, who he had to persuade British Gas to send 
promptly.
British Gas replied and accepted that there were a range of issues with the service Mr H had 
received. It offered him £32.17 for the additional gas that Mr H had used due to the 
installation issues and £100 compensation.
Mr H wasnt satisfied that the amount offered by British Gas reflected the distress and 
inconvenience that he had been caused, so he complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint. He said that he thought the level of compensation offered was 
appropriate in the circumstances.
As Mr H did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas agreed with Mr H that the level of service provided under his HomeCare policy 
wasnt of a high enough standard. The issue is whether the amount of compensation that 
British Gas offered was appropriate. Having looked at the details of this case, although I 
know that this will disappoint Mr H, I think that it was. I will explain why below.
British Gas offered £32.17 by comparing the amount of gas he used in the affected period 
with the comparable period the previous year. I think this was a reasonable way of working 
this out and gave as realistic a figure as possible in the circumstances. 
In terms of the compensation offered, Mr H said that £150 would better reflect the distress 
and inconvenience caused with getting the boiler issues sorted out, including a loss of trust 
because the way the policy was delivered didnt meet his expectations, and because of how 
his complaint was handled.
First, I should explain that complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, so although Mr H is 
unhappy about how long British Gas took to respond to his complaint and how it conducted 
its investigation, this isnt something that I can consider as it falls outside of the remit of this 
service.
However, Ive looked at the overall service that Mr H experienced under the terms of his 
policy, including considering everything that Mr H has provided and the responses at various 
stages from British Gas. I can see that there were a range of issues that will have impacted 
Mr H. Having thought about this, I think that the £100 compensation offered, in addition to 
the £32.17 for the gas, is reasonable in the circumstances to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused and is in line with what I would have awarded. As a result, I dont 
uphold this complaint and dont require British Gas to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman