DRN-2411715
The complaint
Mr M complains about Zenith Insurance plc and their failure to settle his outstanding finance 
agreement on a car that was written off in a road traffic accident.
What happened
At the start of May 2014, Mr M was involved in a road traffic accident. So, he contacted 
Zenith to make a claim on his car insurance policy. When the claim was opened, Mr M was 
living at his old address, which Ill refer to as address D. 
Zenith progressed Mr Ms claim and following an inspection, his car was deemed beyond 
economical repair. Mr Ms car was bought through a finance agreement with company B. So, 
the pre-accident value (PAV) of Mr Ms car was to be used to pay off the existing finance 
amount. 
But Zenith were unable to pay company B without seeing proof of ownership and a copy of 
the finance agreement from Mr M. So, Zenith requested these documents from Mr M on 
several occasions. But Mr M didnt provide them, so Zenith closed the claim.
In June 2019, Mr M contacted Zenith to ask why the finance agreement hadnt been paid as 
company B had been chasing him. Zenith explained they hadnt received the documents 
they needed from Mr M. He provided these shortly after and the PAV was paid to company 
B.
But Mr M had stopped making his monthly payments after the car was written off. So, 
company B had added additional charges. This meant Mr M was left with an outstanding 
balance of over £3,000 that he needed to pay. And Mr M thought these charges were 
incurred because Zenith failed to pay the finance agreement in 2014. So, he raised a 
complaint.
Mr M complained about Zeniths failure to settle his agreement with company B. He 
explained hed updated his insurance agent, A, about his change of address shortly after the 
accident and a new certificate of insurance was provided. So, the letters Zenith had sent to 
him asking him for documents hadnt been received. He thought Zeniths failure to update 
his address had led to the failure to pay the outstanding finance, so he wanted them to cover 
the amount company B were chasing him for.
Zenith didnt agree. They thought theyd acted fairly when chasing him for documents as his 
address for the claim hadnt been updated. And they thought theyd acted reasonably by 
paying company B the PAV in 2019 shortly after Mr M had contacted them and provided his 
original finance agreement. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr M 
remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She didnt dispute the letters 
Zenith sent after 19 May 2014 went to an address where Mr M no longer resided. But she 
didnt think this meant Zenith should cover the outstanding amount Mr M owed to company 
B. She felt Zenith had attempted to contact Mr M via phone on a number of occasions and 
had left voicemails explaining what information they required. And she hadnt seen that Mr M 
had replied to these. And she thought Mr M ought to have been reasonably aware of the 
documents he needed to provide as these were listed in a letter sent on 13 May 2014, which 
was before Mr M made his insurance agent, A, aware of his change of address. So, she 
didnt think Zenith needed to do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree. He didnt think the investigator had took into consideration the fact he 
updated his address with A, who he bought the insurance policy through. So, he maintained 
his view that Zenith should cover the cost of the remaining amount owed to company B. As 
Mr M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr M. Ive no doubt it 
wouldve been worrying when he was contacted by company B to chase him for payment of 
a finance agreement he presumed had been sorted. And even more so, when he realised 
the amount owing had increased. Mr M has explained this has affected his ability to re-
mortgage his property and I appreciate the stress this has caused him and his family. But for 
me to agree that Zenith should cover the outstanding amount company B are chasing him 
for, Id need to be satisfied that they did something wrong. And if they did, that this error was 
the sole cause of the finance agreement not being paid and instead incurring additional 
charges. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Its not in dispute that Zenith sent several letters to an address Mr M was no longer living in. 
So, Ive considered whether I think this in itself means Zenith acted unreasonably.
Mr M raised his claim with Zenith at the start of May 2014. This was before his change of 
address. So, the claim was set up using Mr Ms address at the time. But I do understand that 
Mr M made his insurance agent, who sold him the insurance policy, aware of the change 
shortly after the claim was set up. And Ive seen a letter than confirms this. So, I can 
appreciate why he assumed that Zenith would be aware. And I understand why he thinks 
this shows Zenith have acted unfairly.
But I dont think this is enough to say Zenith are responsible for the costs he now owes to 
company B. Ive seen Zenith sent a letter to Mr M on 13 May, before he made his insurance 
agent A aware of the change of address. And within this letter, it stated that further 
documents were required for the finance with company B to be settled. As Mr M hadnt made 
anyone aware of an address change at this point, I have to assume Mr M was able to 
receive this letter. So, even though later letters were sent to the wrong address, I cant say 
this first one was. And this first letter made clear Mr M needed to provide further information.
And even though letters were sent to the wrong address, Ive seen Zenith also made 
attempts to call Mr M on 17 June, 28 July and 2 October to request the information they 
needed. From the notes Ive seen, voicemails were left. And I cant see any evidence that 
shows Mr M responded to these. I think its reasonable to assume that if Mr M had returned 
these calls, Zenith wouldve been able to explain what documents were needed to complete 
the claim. And following this, wouldve been able to settle it in 2014. Because of this, I think Zenith made reasonable attempts to contact Mr M. And as they received no further contact, I 
cant say they acted unfairly by closing the claim when no contact was returned.
Also, Ive seen a letter sent to Mr M by company B on 24 July 2014. This letter was sent to 
an address separate to the one used by Zenith for the claim and the update address Mr M 
provided to insurance agent A. In this letter, it detailed the amount needed to settle the 
agreement. It also explained that Mr M should continue to make any normal monthly 
payments under your contract due between now and 21 August 2014. If payment of this 
figure is to be made by a third party on your behalf, it is your responsibility to ensure 
payment is made.
Im unable to speculate as to whether this letter was received by Mr M. But Id expect Mr M 
to ensure he kept his address up to date with any agreements he held. And I think this letter 
explains clearly that it was Mr Ms responsibility to ensure the settlement amount was paid 
by the date provided. Mr M had received two voicemails from Zenith before the date the 
payment needed to be made, so following receipt of this letter Id have expected Mr M to 
contact Zenith to ensure the payment had been confirmed. And I cant see that Mr M did so. 
The letter from company B also explained that if the settlement wasnt paid, the agreement 
would continue, and payments would be taken as normal. And Ive seen Mr M stopped 
making his monthly payments in May, as soon as the car was deemed beyond economical 
repair. While I can understand why Mr M would decide to stop making payments to a car he 
could no longer drive, the finance agreement isnt designed to only be applicable when the 
car was roadworthy. The finance agreement is designed to cover the total cost of the car. 
So, Mr M still had a duty to ensure the finance was paid. And because of this, I dont think it 
would be fair for me to hold Zenith responsible for the costs incurred by Mr Ms decision to 
stop making payments to his finance agreement. So, I dont think Zenith need to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Zenith Insurance plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman