DRN-2348623
The complaint
Mrs B says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her and the late Mr B a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out PPI in 1996 at the same time as they applied for a mortgage in one 
of the banks branches. The policy gave them accident, sickness and unemployment cover. 
They paid a monthly amount for the cover.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed, so the complaint was 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here) I've made my decision based on 
the balance of probabilities. In other words, on what I think is most likely given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive 
followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs B says it was verbally made clear to them that they were unlikely to get their mortgage 
without PPI. I cant know what was said in the meeting and Lloyds no longer has Mr and 
Mrs Bs paperwork from the sale. It says that its more likely than not that the optional 
nature of the policy was explained in good time before the sale was concluded. Ive thought 
carefully about Mrs Bs comments but I also have to take into account how long ago the 
sale was and how that might affect what she recalls. Overall, without stronger evidence I 
cant fairly conclude Lloyds didnt make it clear the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs B 
didnt agree to take it out.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B, so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them. I know Mrs B feels strongly that they didnt need it. But based on what shes told us 
about their circumstances at the time, I think that it was suitable. Mrs B says she was 
entitled to 12 months' full pay and six months half pay if she was sick, as was Mr B. We 
asked for confirmation of their sick pay as from what Mrs B says they both had 
uncommonly generous employee benefits. I dont doubt that is her honest recollection but 
we are asking her to remember details from a long time ago so she may be honestly 
mistaken. Mrs B is unable to provide any supporting documentation, which is 
understandable give how long ago the sale was. But I note she worked for a local authority 
 and from what we know they generally paid six months full pay and six months half pay 
for sickness. So without some supporting evidence I dont think I can fairly conclude that 
their sick pay meant they didnt have a need for the PPI. Plus it would always have paid out 
in addition to any work benefits.
The policy also gave up to 12 months redundancy cover so would have allowed them to 
protect any lump sum redundancy payment(s), giving increased financial stability at a 
difficult time whilst not working.
Mrs B said Mr B had a number of private pensions payable at the age of 50; she was a 
member of her employers pension scheme; they had endowment policies; and life 
insurance. But these products all cover different events, or provide in different 
circumstances so are not suitable alternative protection. They wouldnt help with monthly 
mortgage repayments in the same way as PPI. Mrs B says they had savings held in an 
ISA, shares and premium bonds but the PPI would have allowed them to use these to 
cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep them intact for their future needs. 
They were borrowing a large sum over a long period, secured on their home. So the effects 
of not keeping up the repayments could have been serious for them. Overall, I think the 
PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs B if they were sick, had an accident or lost their 
job(s).
Mrs B says they werent made aware of the benefits of the policy. I agree its possible 
Lloyds didnt give Mr and Mrs B the clear and complete information they needed before 
deciding to buy PPI. I dont know when the cost was made clear but the PPI was 
reasonably priced for the benefit it offered and apparently affordable. I also dont know that 
the bank pointed out the main things the PPI didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs B dont appear 
to have been affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI wouldve changed their mind about buying it.
It follows I dont think Mrs B and the estate of the late Mr B have lost out because of any 
problems with the sale.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and the 
estate of Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman