DRN-3396191
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Nationwide Building Society wont reimburse funds she lost when she 
fell victim to a scam.
What happened
Mrs S was looking for an investment opportunity and was subsequently cold called by a 
business called PrimeOT. She was told if she invested with them, she could make big profits
 according to Nationwides records, 20%. She was attracted by the offer and agreed and 
was set up with access to a trading platform. In order to invest, payments were required to 
be made via crypto currency platforms  and she says never actually had accounts with 
these exchanges, she only accessed them through the PrimeOT website. She was also 
never allowed to trade on her own, only ever with a PrimeOT broker.
Mrs S made a number of payments onto the platform and she was persuaded by the broker 
to take out a large loan to continue funding the investment - £88,000. It was after this 
payment was made that Nationwide had been alerted to a destination account being 
blacklisted. So it contacted Mrs S about her payments. And it was only as a result of 
Nationwides contact, and subsequently seeing a substantial drop in the value of the 
investment and then not being able to access the website anymore, that Mrs S realised it 
was a scam.
The transactions were as set out below:
Date Merchant Amount Debit/credit
26 August 2019 e-tech solution £254.29 Debit  debit card
19 September 2019 Bitstamp £93.41 Credit
24 September 2019 Coinshype £700 Debit  debit card
24 September 2019 Coinshype £4,000 Debit  debit card
26 September 2019 Bitstamp £31,119.58 Debit - SEPA
16 October 2019 Bitstamp £24,042.74 Debit - SEPA
14 November 2019 Bitstamp £93.41 Credit
11 December 2019 Coinshype £495 Credit
20 December 2019 Polotis OU £86,417.60 Debit - SEPA
17 January 2020 Bitstamp £1,449.55 Credit
Total loss £144,002.53
Mrs S complained but Nationwide didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it had 
provided sufficient warnings when the payments were made, and Mrs S was responsible for 
ensuring the merchant was legitimate. Nationwide did attempt to recover the money from the 
receiving bank, but it didnt get a response.
Our investigator considered the complaint and upheld it. She felt the first payment to 
Bitstamp ought to have triggered Nationwides fraud alert systems as the payment was out 
of character for the account. And although the payments were to legitimate cryptocurrency 
exchanges, the risk to its customer falling victim to a scam ought to have been reasonably 
foreseeable to it, given the published warnings about cryptocurrency and trading scams. She 
was satisfied that if Nationwide had intervened the scam would likely have unravelled. She 
also considered whether Mrs S had contributed to her loss but found she hadnt.
Nationwide didnt initially respond to the view, and then told us it was part of a wider review 
into such cases. However, it was told via our operational contact team that any complaint 
that had been upheld would be put on an ombudsmans desk after 25 February 2022.
On allocation to me, I noted Mrs S had taken out a loan at the suggestion of the scammer. 
Mrs S has explained the scammers sent her links to loan companies they thought would be 
willing to provide a loan and she was advised to tell the lender it was for home 
improvements. She now recognises that wasnt something she ought to have done. Mrs S 
has also told us during the course of this complaint, that just prior to the her falling victim to 
the scam she had a medical event which had left her vulnerable.
Mrs S also made some credit card payments as a result of this scam, but they have been 
dealt with separately and are not part of this complaint.
I issued my provisional decision on 16 March 2022. As both parties have responded, the 
complaint can progress to this final stage. Nationwide has told us that it agrees to the 
settlement set out in my provisional decision. 
Mrs S also accepts the outcome. She has also told us that although she originally received a 
refund in relation to the credit card transactions, these were re-debited to her account.
Both parties accept my provisional findings and I see no reason alter them; I therefore make 
them final below. However, I have noted Mrs Ss comments about the credit card 
transactions. If that is something she wants us to investigate, she can let the investigator 
know. However, if Nationwides final response in relation to those transactions was issued 
more than six-months ago, it might be too late to ask us to look into it. The investigator can 
provide more information about that, if Mrs S wishes to pursue that further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks and 
building societies should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay.
The starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if 
they were duped into doing so, for example as part of an investment scam.
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customers as a result.
The payments made by Mrs S were made using her debit card and by SEPA transfer. I 
therefore conclude these were authorised payments  for which Mrs S is liable, unless there 
is evidence Nationwide could and should have done more to protect her, which issue I now 
turn to.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that Mrs S has fallen victim to a scam. Nationwide 
received information that the final payee had been blacklisted, a couple of months after the 
payment was made. And there is a lot of information in the public domain about people who have had similar experiences to Mrs S that have lost money to a scam with PrimeOT. I 
consider Nationwide took a positive step in contacting Mrs S about the payment and it was 
as a result of that Mrs S came to the realisation she had been scammed.
But I do think it should have taken action sooner. Mrs S made a total of six payments from 
her account, three debit card payments and three SEPA transfers. I agree with the 
investigator that the first three debit card payments werent unusual or uncharacteristic for 
the normal operation of the account, albeit they were to new payees. I therefore dont find 
that Nationwide ought to have intervened before any of those transactions completed.
However, the first SEPA transfer, of £31,119.58, was a substantial increase in spending 
such that I do find it was unusual and uncharacteristic. And although Mrs S had received a 
credit from Bitstamp she had never sent a payment to it. So not only was this a substantial 
increase in spend, but the payment was to a new, international, payee. Im satisfied this was 
so unusual that Nationwides systems ought to have triggered an alert and the payment 
paused, pending further intervention  such as making enquiries, or giving a scam warning.
I have considered the payments were being sent to legitimate cryptocurrency exchanges 
and so seemingly to Mrs Ss own accounts with them. And I accept that buying 
cryptocurrency is a legitimate exercise. But both the FCA and Action Fraud had warned of 
cryptocurrency exchange and forex trading scams in 2018. And in May 2019 Action Fraud 
published further warnings that such scams had tripled in the past year. This type of insight 
is something regulated businesses including Nationwide, ought to take notice of. So even if 
Mrs S had been sending money to her own cryptocurrency exchange accounts, it didnt 
follow that her money was safe, in her control, or that she wasnt at risk of financial harm due 
to fraud or a scam. Indeed, in this case, I understand Mrs S never had accounts with the 
cryptocurrency exchanges herself.
Had Nationwide carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Mrs S about the payment, 
Ive no reason to doubt she would have explained what she was doing. Whilst I accept it had 
no duty to protect her from a poor investment choice, or give investment advice, it could 
have provided information about the steps a customer can take to ensure as far is a 
reasonably possible, that they are dealing with a legitimate person  such as checking the 
trader/payee was authorised by the FCA. And it could have drawn on its own knowledge and 
information that was in the public domain (already referenced) about the high-risk associated 
with trading and the potential for fraud and provided Mrs S with a potential scam warning. Im 
particularly mindful that Mrs S was cold called, typical behaviour for a scammer, but not for a 
legitimate investment opportunity.
Nationwide has provided evidence that a warning was given although it isnt clear when. I 
have considered the warning, but it doesnt appear relevant to the situation Mrs S found 
herself in. For example it refers to common scams including requests to refund 
overpayments or being told an account is at risk. There was nothing in the warning about 
investment scams  although I appreciate Mrs S didnt pick investment as the reason for 
the payment. I dont believe this warning was a sufficient intervention. And I havent seen 
anything to show there were any other meaningful interventions. Had it done so, Im satisfied 
Mrs S would have looked further into the investment type in general, whether the trader was 
regulated here or abroad and noted the various warnings about trading scams. I say that 
bearing in mind that when Nationwide did contact Mrs S, it stopped her in her tracks and led 
to the realisation she been scammed. Im satisfied an earlier intervention would likely have 
exposed the scam, and caused Mrs S to stop trading, thereby preventing further losses. Im 
therefore currently minded to find it should reimburse the final three payments.
I have considered that Mrs S took out a loan of £88,000 in order to fund the investment, and 
thought about whether Nationwide should pay any redress towards the cost of the loan, after all had it intervened when I think it should have done, then Mrs S wouldnt have taken it out 
at all. But I dont think it would be have reasonably foreseeable to Nationwide that Mrs S 
may borrow to invest  lenders dont generally lend for customers to invest; it isnt 
considered good financial sense (rarely would the growth in an investment outstrip the 
interest charged on a loan, for example).
But that isnt the end of the matter. I also need to consider whether Mrs S ought to bear 
some responsibility for the situation in which she found herself. I have noted that Mrs S did 
have other investments, as I believe she cashed in about £10,000 during the course of this 
scam. In light of that, I think being told she could expect returns of 20% ought to have raised 
suspicions with her  that type of return is rarely possible with legitimate investments, even 
legitimate trading; it was simply too good to be true. Im not aware that Mrs S asked any 
questions about that.
Mrs S also borrowed in order to invest more. When applying for the loan she was told to say 
it was for home improvements. Mrs S now recognises she shouldnt have done that. But I 
also think being told to lie should have raised suspicions at the time; if what she was doing 
was legitimate why would she need to lie about it? Im not aware of Mrs S challenging this at 
the time or asking questions to reassure herself about what she was doing.
Finally, Mrs S was investing a substantial sum, particularly over the last three payments. 
However, Im not aware that she carried out any due diligence before making those 
particular payments, or any of them. I havent seen any evidence that Mrs S carried out any 
research into the investment, the trader, or the investment type to reassure herself that the 
opportunity was genuine.
So I do think Mrs S ought to bear some responsibility for her losses and compensation 
should be reduced accordingly. Ordinarily I would consider 25% to be a fair reduction. 
However, I am aware that Mrs S had recently suffered a medical event just prior to falling 
victim to the scam, and I think it fair and reasonable I take that into account, given Mrs S has 
told us, and I accept, this made her vulnerable and more susceptible to the scam. Im 
therefore find a 10% reduction to be fair, given the individual circumstances here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Nationwide 
Building Society to:
Reimburse £127,421.93 to Mrs S representing the final three payments less 
10%; and
It should add interest at 8% simple per year, from the date of the payments 
to the date of settlement, less any lawfully deductible tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman