DRN-3950614
The complaint
Mr G complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMW) acted prematurely when 
terminating his hire purchase agreement with it. 
What happened
In July 2021 BMW supplied a car to Mr G under a hire purchase agreement. The monthly 
repayments were around £620 which were collected by direct debit. 
Mr G said that in November 2021 he lost his job. His direct debit payments were returned 
unpaid in December 2021 and January 2022.
BMWs contact notes show Mr G spoke with BMW in February 2022 and explained that hed 
missed payments because he was out of work but had recently returned to employment and 
would make his next payment at the end of the month. He set up a new direct debit.
The new direct debit failed again. BMWs notes show it tried to contact Mr G a few times 
after this but without success.
Mr G contacted BMW in April 2022. He said the job he was due to start in February 2022 fell 
through, but he had now secured a new one. He said he would be paid at the end of May 
and would contact BMW then to resume payments and arrange a plan to clear the arrears. 
BMW said it couldnt guarantee it wouldnt start default proceedings but said it would make a 
note to contact him first if it was going to do this.
 
On 26 April 2022 BMW sent Mr G a default notice explaining he needed to pay the arrears of 
£3,099 in full by 16 May 2022 or it would terminate his agreement and repossess the car. 
Mr G said he didnt receive this letter. 
On 20 May 2022 BMW wrote to Mr G and told him it had terminated his agreement as he 
hadnt complied with the default notice. 
Mr G complained to BMW as he thought it was going to contact him first if it decided to take 
default action.
In response to Mr Gs complaint BMW said that although it had failed to contact him before 
issuing a default notice like it said it would in its call with him in April 2022, it hadnt made 
any promises that it wouldnt default his agreement in that call. And it said that because it 
didnt hear from Mr G within the 20 days it gave him to bring the agreement back up to date, 
it was within its rights to terminate the agreement.  
Our investigator didnt think Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. He said Mr Gs agreement 
with BMW permitted it to default the agreement if he missed payments. And he thought Mr G 
had been given the chance to make arrangements with BMW when he was sent the default 
notice letter. 
Mr G didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think to help me decide whether BMWs actions were reasonable here I need to think not 
just about what happened in the call in April 2022 but also what had happened before this. 
Mr G missed payments in December and January 2022 and BMWs notes show he didnt 
explain why until February 2022. At that point he said he was already in employment and 
would be able to make payment at the end of month. The notes show he promised to contact 
BMW at the end of February 2022. The notes also show Mr G didnt make any payment and 
didnt make the promised contact either. 
BMW then had difficulty trying to get hold of Mr G all over March and the early part of April.
So, by the time of Mr Gs call to BMW in late April 2022 and given Mr G was five months in 
arrears at this point, while I appreciate Mr G had again said he was in employment, I think 
BMW would have been naturally cautious about allowing him any more time to make 
payment arrangements. I remind myself also that generally a lender is expected to take 
default action after three months of missed payments and certainly no later than six. BMWs 
decision to issue a default notice was not unreasonable in this sense.
Because he was in arrears, BMW was required to treat Mr G with forbearance and due 
consideration. But I think it did this by allowing Mr G another two months after hed told it he 
was going to resume making payments in February 20222 before it decided to take default 
action. 
I recognise that BMW promised to contact Mr G before making a decision to send a default 
notice. Ideally it should have done this.  However, it seems most likely that even it did, the 
discussion would have gone the same way as it did five days earlier i.e. Mr G wasnt going to 
be able to make payment until the end of May when he got paid. BMW already knew that  it 
told Mr G it would review everything hed told it in its call with him in April 2022. And it 
decided to issue a default notice anyway. So, it seems unlikely that BMW would have made 
a different decision if it had contacted Mr G before issuing the default notice. 
In any event Mr G had around 20 days after receiving the default notice to come to an 
arrangement with BMW so it did make him aware of its intentions. He said he didnt get the 
default notice. But it was correctly addressed to him and he appears to have received other 
communications from BMW. So, it seems unlikely this was the only letter that didnt reach 
him. 
Overall, I dont find that BMW treated Mr G unfairly by sending the default notice or 
terminating his agreement. However, I remind BMW to treat Mr G with forbearance and due 
consideration in respect of any sum that it will require him to pay going forward. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman