DRN-2907054
The complaint
Mrs As complaint is about Tesco Underwriting Limiteds decision to turn down a claim for 
storm damage made under her home insurance policy.
All references to Tesco include its appointed agents.
What happened
In February 2020, Mrs A raised a claim for a cracked ceiling within her property. She told 
Tesco that since January 2020 the ceiling had started to leak water during periods of rainfall.
Tesco appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the cause of damage. Mrs A provided photos 
of the damage caused and a report from her builder  who also did a temporary repair to the 
flat roof to slow the leak. The builders report said that debris from a recent storm had blown 
up onto the flat roof and caused the damage.
The loss adjuster determined that there was no evidence of storm conditions which could be 
attributed to the damage being claimed for. And they concluded that the damage was most 
likely a cause of wear and tear to the external roof fittings which had failed and let water into 
the property. So in April 2020 they told Mrs A that the claim would be turned down.
Mrs A didnt agree and attempted to contact the loss adjuster to request a site visit or video 
call. In October 2020, Mrs A told Tesco that following heavy rain her kitchen roof had fallen 
in. And she said that the loss adjuster hadnt returned her emails disputing the claim 
outcome.
Tesco reviewed the claim a second time. It arranged a site visit from a second loss adjuster 
and reviewed the information provided by Mrs A. The second loss adjuster concluded the flat 
roof was in good condition and there was no storm damage evident. But they found the likely 
cause of ingress was because the felt and seal appeared to have failed around the gutter 
outlet, and this let in water every time it rained. So they also recommended the claim be 
turned down.
Mrs A was unhappy with Tescos decision and complained. Tesco provided its final response 
to Mrs A on 2 November 2020. Tesco acknowledged that the loss adjuster had 
communicated poorly during the claim and offered £100 compensation for this. But Tesco 
maintained its position to turn down the claim. It said the loss adjusters decision made in 
April 2020 was correct, so it wasnt responsible for any further damage caused to the 
property by the water ingress.
Mrs A didnt agree with Tescos response and referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint shouldnt be upheld. They 
concluded that Tesco had declined the claim fairly based on the policy terms and a lack of 
evidence of storm conditions. And they concluded that Tescos offer of £100 compensation 
was reasonable for the impact of the poor communication from its loss adjuster.
Mrs A doesnt agree. She said:
There is no definition for storm in the policy terms, and just because there may not 
have been high winds or rainfall in January 2020, it doesnt mean the roof did not 
suffer storm damage from a previous incident.
She wasnt given a fair opportunity by Tesco to provide evidence of an insured event 
which would be covered by the policy.
There is no dispute that the roof is fit for purpose and she has provided evidence to 
show this.
That Tesco had looked into the possibility of covering the damage to the kitchen 
under the contents section of the policy but has now told her this isnt covered either.
The matter has now been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first considered whether Tesco has assessed Mrs As claim fairly under the terms and 
conditions of the policy. Tescos position is that it hasnt been shown that a one-off storm 
caused the damage being claimed for, so there isnt an insured event for it to cover. 
Ive not seen any evidence which suggests that any other insured events may be applicable 
here, so in order for me to determine if Tescos position is fair and reasonable, I need to 
consider:
1. Was there evidence of a storm around the time of the claim?
2. Is the damage typical of the damage that would be caused by a storm?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
And in order for the claim to be successful, the answer to all three questions must be yes.
Was there evidence of a storm around the time of the claim?
Ive considered the builders report alongside the local weather records to see if there was 
evidence of storm conditions around the time of the claim. Storm isnt defined within the 
policy documents, so Ive considered a more general definition which is that a storm would 
involve violent winds, usually accompanied by rain.
The builders report states Debris from recent storm evidently blown on to flat roof and 
resulted in damage  crack in ceiling and leak through to kitchen. Storm damage visibly 
evident. 
The builder hasnt elaborated on what debris was blown onto the flat roof, and unfortunately 
didnt take any photos of the external damage before doing a temporary repair. And theyve 
not responded to our services requests for information. So I cant rely on this evidence alone 
to say there were storm conditions.
The local weather records of the area indicate that neither the wind speeds nor rainfall 
amount in January 2020 were sufficient at any one time to meet the test for a storm. I dont 
think it is in doubt that there were periods of bad weather during this time. But I havent seen 
anything to support the presence of a one-off storm event.So on the basis of the weather records and balance of evidence overall, I find Tescos 
position to be reasonable in turning down the claim due to the lack of an insured event. 
Ive next considered the poor communication from the loss adjuster, and whether this delay 
has had any direct consequences for Mrs A in terms of the additional damage to her 
property.
On one hand I understand Mrs A was disputing the outcome of the claim  she felt that the 
desktop investigation wasnt sufficient and wanted Tesco to carry out a more detailed 
investigation of the damage. But on the other hand Tesco had given its decision that the 
claim was turned down based on the available evidence. And Ive already concluded this 
position was reasonable.
Therefore I am persuaded on balance that once Tesco made its decision, this broke the 
chain of events and the onus was on Mrs A to mitigate any further damage to her property 
whilst the claim was being disputed.
The temporary repair the builder carried out was clearly that  their report states Further 
building work strongly advised: roof needs further attention and kitchen ceiling to be 
replaced. So I think this shows that regardless of the claim outcome, further works were 
required in order to achieve an effective and lasting repair of the damage.
Tescos position is that due to a communication breakdown it wasnt aware that Mrs A was 
still disputing the outcome of the claim. It said that had it known it would have asked a 
surveyor to visit the property to validate the claim. And it did so as soon as it became aware 
Mrs A was unhappy with the outcome.
Ultimately the second surveyor found the claim had been correctly declined. Notwithstanding 
the fact the roof had been repaired since the claim was first reported, the surveyor identified 
the problem as a localised leak from the guttering and a failed seal, which supported the fact 
that the leak happening every time it rained. Based on the report and photos Ive seen, I am 
persuaded by these conclusions. 
Therefore, I dont find that Tescos actions have directly led to the causation of the further 
damage to the kitchen ceiling. The evidence shows that the problem with the roof isnt linked 
to an insured event; Tescos position on turning down the claim was clear; and further 
repairs were deemed necessary by the builder. So Im not going to require Tesco to do 
anything further.
Ive considered if any of the damage in Mrs As claim could be covered under another 
section of her policy. But Mrs As policy doesnt provide cover for events such as accidental 
damage to the Buildings. So I dont find any alternative here for this claim to succeed.
Ive considered the £100 compensation that Tesco has offered for the poor communication 
by the loss adjuster, and I find this fair and reasonable in the circumstances. If Tesco has not 
done so already, it should make arrangements to pay this amount to Mrs A.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Tesco Underwriting Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman