DRN-3132448
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont port their 
mortgage, or then cover their Early Repayment Charge (ERC).
What happened
In July 2019, Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage with NatWest with a five-year fixed rate, 
running until 2024. On 18 November 2020, they applied to port this existing mortgage to a 
new build property and to borrow some additional funds.
On 1 December 2020, NatWest made Mr and Mrs M aware it couldnt accept their request to 
port the mortgage. It explained that it wasnt able to lend to anyone else on the development, 
as the maximum it could lend had been reached. It said it would consider an application to 
port the mortgage to another property, or Mr and Mrs M could take out a mortgage with 
another lender, but this would mean they paid an ERC.
Mr and Mrs M didnt want to lose the property, so said they would look to re-mortgage 
elsewhere. But they wanted NatWest to cover the ERC, as it wasnt their fault they couldnt 
port the mortgage. They also wanted NatWest to cover the additional interest theyd have to 
pay on the new mortgage, due to the ERC money, and compensation of one months salary. 
NatWest didnt agree to this, so they brought their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied NatWest had acted in line 
with its policy when declining the porting application. And that the ERC was applicable as 
this was within the terms Mr and Mrs M agreed to in 2019, when they took out this mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs M asked for an ombudsman to review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully appreciate the reason Mr and Mrs M have brought this complaint and understand their 
frustration and disappointment over NatWests refusal to allow them to port their mortgage. 
But the role of our service is to review NatWests actions and determine if its done 
something wrong or acted unfairly, such as by treating Mr and Mrs M differently to others in 
the same situation. We dont have the power to direct NatWest to put Mr and Mrs M in a 
position they couldnt have been in. So while I empathise with their situation, I cant uphold 
their complaint.
When Mr and Mrs M took out their mortgage with NatWest in 2019, they agreed to a five-
year fixed rate. They wouldve received a different and likely better rate on this product than 
if theyd not fixed at all or fixed for a shorter time, but this product also came with an ERC. 
Ive seen no guarantees from NatWest that Mr and Mrs M would be able to port this 
mortgage if they wanted to move during the five-year fixed time. And from my experience, 
these are not given, as a lender doesnt know what its borrowing criteria will be at an 
unknown future point. I accept that there was the possibility Mr and Mrs M could port this 
mortgage, but no guarantee.
When Mr and Mrs M wanted to port the mortgage, NatWest took the appropriate steps to 
arrange this. But these involved different checks and when it came to the valuation stage, 
this is where the application failed. I accept that prior to this stage NatWest couldnt have 
known the application would fail. And I can see it informed Mr and Mrs M of the decline 
within a day of finding this out. I havent seen any unnecessary delays, so I think it handled 
the application appropriately and kept Mr and Mrs M informed as it progressed.
NatWest has provided us its internal criteria for new build developments, which includes the 
protocol on how much of the development can be mortgaged by it. And, unfortunately by the 
time Mr and Mrs M applied to port their mortgage, this threshold had been reached. Had any 
other person applied for a NatWest mortgage on the same development at this time, they 
wouldve had the same decline, whether it was a new mortgage or a request to port. So I 
cant say NatWest has acted unfairly in declining Mr and Mrs Ms application, as its followed 
the policy. And on reading the policy, it sets out a legitimate commercial decision. While 
Mr and Mrs M met the lending criteria, this policy also needed to be followed. And this meant 
that they couldnt be lent to on this particular development.
Mr and Mrs M said they didnt want to find another property, which I accept. But I cant agree 
this means NatWest has to cover any of their costs or the ERC. In 2019, Mr and Mrs M 
agreed that if they repaid the mortgage in the first five years, they would pay this charge. 
And they werent given any guarantee of porting. As its been some time since this complaint 
was first raised, I assume Mr and Mrs M have since moved and paid the charge. But I cant 
and wont ask NatWest to cover this or any other costs, as it hasnt made a mistake. It 
couldnt and cant, in line with its policies, lend to them on this development. I accept the fact 
that many other people want to use NatWest on this development isnt within the control of, 
or the fault of, Mr and Mrs M. But its also not NatWests fault and Ive not seen anything 
which shows its made a mistake in this case. I understand Mr and Mrs M found themselves 
in an unfortunate and difficult situation, but Im not upholding their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman