DRN-2329347
The complaint
Miss D has complained that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. incorrectly told her shed be entitled to a payment on her guaranteed asset 
protection (GAP) policy and then didn't honour that advice.
Reference to Mapfre includes its agents.
What happened
Miss Ds car was damaged in an accident and deemed a total loss by her comprehensive 
motor insurer. Miss D twice rang Mapfre to see what her GAP policy would cover. During her 
first call Mapfre told her the policy would pay the difference between her motor insurers 
settlement and the amount she bought her car for. The call handler told her not to accept the 
motor insurer's settlement offer until shed raised a claim with Mapfre. 
In the second call Miss D said shed read her policy documents and noted those said she 
needed to call Mapfre before accepting the motor insurers offer of settlement. She asked 
why that was. Mapfre told her that was because it needed to agree the motor insurers 
valuation and that would be the first step of a claim. Mapfre told her it would need to know 
the motor insurers offer and the exact mileage of the car. It said Miss D should call back 
with that information to make a claim. It again said her policy would cover the difference 
between the motor insurers settlement and the amount she paid for the car.
Miss D rang back the following day to make a claim. Mapfre ran through the details and told 
her she wasn't entitled to anything under the terms of her policy because the cover had 
expired. Miss D complained. Mapfre acknowledged it hadn't given Miss D the correct advice 
initially, so it paid her £50 compensation for the inconvenience that caused. 
Miss D brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She said Mapfre 
should increase its compensation by £50. Miss D didn't think that went far enough, so her 
complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im going to uphold it. My award to put things right will be the same as our 
investigator recommended.
The policy Miss D bought had two distinct parts. The first part, invoice cover, would pay the 
difference between the amount Miss D paid for her car and the motor insurer's settlement. 
And that cover lasted for 36 months from when Miss D took out her policy. The second part  
of the policy, finance cover, would pay the difference between her motor insurers settlement 
and any outstanding balance she owed on the finance agreement for the car. That part of 
the cover lasted for 48 months. 
Miss Ds car was deemed a total loss around 43 months after she bought it and took out the 
GAP policy. So, as more than 36 months had passed since she took out the policy, the 
invoice cover no longer applied. That meant she was only eligible to claim under the finance 
cover section of her policy. But the motor insurers settlement for the total loss of her car was 
more than the outstanding finance on it. So she wasnt entitled to receive anything under that 
section of her policy either, which is why Mapfre declined to pay her claim.
Miss D said that when shed spoken with Mapfre it had twice told her the policy would cover 
the difference between the price shed paid for her car and the motor insurers settlement. 
And because of that advice shed bought a new car which she couldn't afford if Mapfre didn't 
pay her claim. She said that if Mapfre hadn't given her incorrect advice shed have bought 
the cars salvage back from the motor insurer and paid to have it repaired herself.
I've listened to Miss Ds calls with Mapfre. And theres no doubt it twice said her policy would 
cover her under the invoice cover section of the policy. That wasn't the case, so it did 
misadvise her. But at the time of her calls Miss D hadn't actually made a claim on her GAP 
policy. And in the first call Mapfre told her not to accept the motor insurers offer until shed 
spoken with it. In the second call Miss D acknowledged she knew she needed to speak with 
Mapfre before accepting the motor insurers offer. Mapfre didn't discuss the figures with her 
in that call and it told her shed need to ring back once she had the details of the offer and 
the cars mileage. 
Miss D then bought a new car. She said she did so because she thought that Mapfre would 
be paying her claim. But at that point Miss D hadn't made a claim on her GAP policy. Nor 
had she rung Mapfre back to discuss the motor insurers offer of settlement. So Mapfre 
wasnt in a position to say whether or not it was satisfied with the insurers valuation. And, if 
shed phoned Mapfre to make a claim before buying the car, its likely it would have told her 
that the policy didn't cover her. So while its clearly not acceptable that Mapfre twice gave 
Miss D incorrect advice, it also told her not to accept any offer until shed made a claim. 
Mapfre didn't give Miss D any form of guarantee it would pay her claim once shed made it. 
So I don't think it was Mapfres fault that Miss D went ahead and bought a car before shed 
put her claim in to Mapfre. 
That said, given Mapfres incorrect advice, I can understand Miss Ds disappointment that 
she wasn't entitled to anything under the terms of her policy. Mapfre has recognised that 
when it paid her £50 compensation. But I don't think that goes far enough. So it should 
increase that sum by £50 to make the total compensation figure £100. I think that sum is 
reasonable to address Miss Ds distress and inconvenience arising from Mapfres incorrect 
advice.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Mapfre Asistencia, 
Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to pay Miss D a further £50 
compensation to bring the total compensation figure to £100. It should pay the compensation 
within 28 days of us telling it that Miss D has accepted my final decision. If it pays later than 
this, it must also pay interest on that amount from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a rate of 8% a year simple1.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman
1 If Mapfre considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Miss D how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate showing this if 
she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.