DRN-3419177
The complaint
C is a limited company and a representative complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) 
unfairly declined a claim made under a Tradesman insurance policy.
What happened
C had engaged the services of a sub-contractor to carry out work on their behalf. The sub-
contractor had some equipment malfunction, and this caused damage to a third partys 
property. The third party made a claim against C and C sought cover under the policy.
UKI rejected the claim because C had failed to obtain evidence that the sub-contractor had 
their own suitable insurance in place. It was a condition of the insurance policy that for cover 
to apply to work undertaken by a sub-contractor for C, C had:
Established and maintained an administrative procedure for obtaining evidence that 
bona fide sub-contractors effect public liability insurance which:
oCovers the work to be undertaken by the sub-contractor
oIs subject to an Indemnity Limit not less than that provided by the policy
oIncludes an indemnity to principal clause
oRemains in force throughout the duration of the contract [with C].
C accepted that it hadnt obtained such information but felt UKI should cover the claim 
because the sub-contractor had let their insurance lapse and it was a condition of the 
contract between C and the sub-contractor that adequate insurance was in place.
Our investigator didnt think UKI had acted unfairly explaining, in summary:
UKIs assessment of the claim was in line with the policy terms and conditions.
It was Cs responsibility to make sure sub-contractors had their own public liability 
insurance, and that such policies met the requirements in Cs policy.
UKIs decision considered the fact that C had never seen a copy of the sub-
contractors insurance.
Cs contract with its sub-contractor did include terms around public liability insurance, 
but these were limited to the sub-contractor being able to produce evidence they 
have adequate cover without further specification.
He didnt think the pandemic was the main cause of C not being able to check sub-
contractor policies.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue I need to decide is whether it was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for 
UKI to have declined Cs claim.
The terms of the insurance policy clearly require C to comply with certain conditions around 
sub-contractor public liability insurance for work they undertake for C. C has accepted that 
they didnt obtain evidence of the sub-contractors public liability insurance. So, Im satisfied 
C didnt establish that the sub-contractors insurance met the conditions required for the 
work to be covered by Cs policy. While the contract between C and the sub-contractor 
reserved a right to C to request a copy of a policy, it said nothing about the indemnity limit 
required vis a vis the policy limit provided by Cs policy. And theres insufficient evidence to 
demonstrate that C checked the sub-contractors policy to ensure it met the requirements of 
the policy. 
Cs aware of the importance of ensuring sub-contractors have adequate insurance as it 
provides C with a level of protection should, as happened here, the sub-contractor causes 
damage to third party property. I say this because Cs contract with the sub-contractor has a 
paragraph dedicated to insurance. This contract is separate to and distinct from Cs policy 
with UKI. The relevance of the insurance policy is that it effectively requires C to take some 
additional steps, which C didnt do. C wanted to minimise its exposure to risk and liability but 
so do insurers  UKIs policy terms around sub-contractor insurance are not in my view 
unfair. They are simple to comply with and set out what needs to be done for cover to apply. 
While C says the sub-contractor let their public liability insurance lapse, theres insufficient 
evidence to show that C had ever seen the policy such that C could be satisfied it met the 
requirements of the policy. Im satisfied C didnt take sufficient steps to have established and 
maintain an administrative procedure for obtaining evidence that the sub-contractor had 
effected public liability insurance that met the requirements of the policy.
I appreciate some of Cs submissions around the impact of the pandemic and some of the 
difficulty this posed, but having thought about everything carefully, Im not persuaded this 
was a sufficient reason to have expected UKI to cover the claim in the absence of Cs 
compliance with the policy terms.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman