DRN-4227533
The complaint
Mrs W complains The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) made her aware 
of the Open Market Option when she arranged her Prudential Teachers AVC annuity but 
wasnt provided with confirmation, that by continuing with the quote from Prudential she may 
have been better off by taking a market-leading annuity from a different provider. She says 
she has suffered a financial loss as a result.
Legal representation brought the complaint on Mrs Ws behalf but for ease, I will address my 
decision to Mrs C directly.
What happened
Mrs W was a member of the Teachers Superannuation Scheme. She contributed to the 
Prudential Teachers AVC option in addition to her occupational scheme. She decided to stop 
her additional monthly contribution to this scheme on 1 June 2004.
In October 2011, Mrs W wanted to take benefits from her AVC, and Prudential wrote to her 
detailing the options available.
Mrs W completed the Prudential claim form stating she wished to take a tax-free cash sum 
and the remaining fund as an annuity which provided just over £100 per annum.
On 1 November 2011. Prudential confirmed receipt of her instruction. It provided the fund 
value, confirmation of the issue of the tax-free cash lump sum and that the remaining 
balance would be used to purchase an annuity as per her instruction.
On 15 December 2022, Mrs Ws legal representatives complained to Prudential on her 
behalf about the sale of the annuity. 
On 14 January 2023 Prudential issues its final response. It said the annuity was provided on 
a non-advised basis. Mrs W was given the required information regarding the open market 
option to allow her to make an informed decision and signposted to a financial adviser if she 
wanted to receive advice. She was also given the standard cancellation rights at the time 
and so it did not uphold the complaint.
Disappointed with the outcome, the legal representatives referred Mrs Ws complaint to this 
service on 3 March 2023.
An investigator looked into matters for Mrs W. He firstly considered whether this service had 
the jurisdiction to consider Mrs Ws complaint. This was because the events occurred in 
2011, which is more than 6 years ago. This would normally mean Mrs W had until 2017 to 
complain. However, even though Mrs W complained more than six years after the events 
shes now complaining about, this isnt the end of the matter, as long as she complains 
within three years of when she was aware, or he ought reasonably to have been aware, she 
had cause to. The investigator found on balance that Mrs W had complained within three 
years of when she said she had reasonably become aware she had cause to complain and 
went onto consider the merits of the complaint.
In his view, he found that Prudential had met its regulatory obligation to provide Mrs W with 
sufficient information regarding the Open Market Option to allow her to make an informed 
decision and so he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs W disagreed. Her legal representatives argued that:
The information provided would not be sufficiently clear to a retail client such as Mrs 
W
The term open market option and the statement "It is your right to compare what we 
can offer you with what other pension companies can provide " does not provide 
enough detail or confirm she could get a better rate from another provider.
The fact that the client was told she could compare what Prudential can offer does 
not tell them they could get a higher income if they shopped around.
It asked for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have independently reached the same outcome as that of our investigator. 
I appreciate Mrs W will be disappointed, Ill explain why.
Before I considered the merits of this complaint it is incumbent upon me to ensure the 
complaint has been brought to this service within the timescales set out in the rules by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
The relevant time limits 
When looking at a complaint, the time limits I must consider and which I have to apply are 
those set out in DISP 2 of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook.
The particular rule thats relevant here is DISP 2.8.
DISP 2.8 says: 
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service: 
(2) more than: 
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later) 
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint. 
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman 
within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint 
having been received; unless: 
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 R 
or DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances: or 
(4) the Ombudsman is required to do so by the Ombudsman Transitional Order; or 
(5) the respondent has consented to the Ombudsman considering the complaint where the 
time limits in DISP 2.8.2 R or DISP 2.8.7 R have expired.
The six-year period and what this means for Mrs Ws complaint 
In this matter the event complained of is sale of an annuity in 2011. So, for the purpose of 
these rules, Mrs W had six years from November 2011 to complain. She didnt complain until December 2022. So, its clear that is more than six years after the event Mrs W now 
complains about took place.
The three-year period - Does this provide Mrs W with longer than six years from when 
the advice was provided in order to complain? 
Even though Mrs W complained more than six years after the events shes now complaining 
about, this isnt the end of the matter. This is because the DISP rules can potentially provide 
her with longer than six years to complain, as long as she complains within three years of 
when she was aware, or he ought reasonably to have been aware, she had cause to. So, 
Ive considered whether she was aware, or he ought reasonably to have been aware, she 
had cause to complain.
When did Mrs W become aware, she had cause for complaint?
Mrs W has said that she contacted Prudential to query the income from the annuity. I can 
see from the information provided by Prudential this was in October 2017, but she says she 
wasnt aware she could complain about the sale of the annuity itself. She says she saw an 
advertisement and contacted the company, who now represent her in 2022 and at this point 
she became aware she could make a complaint. I have no reason to doubt the information 
provided by Mrs W, she has complained about another matter, and I find it more likely than 
not if she had been aware she could raise a complaint about the sale of the annuity she 
would have done so. For this reason, I am satisfied that when she brought her complaint to 
Prudential and then this service in March 2023, she did so within three years of when she 
ought reasonably to have been aware she had cause to complain and as such I can go on to 
consider the merits of her complaint.
From what I have seen the crux of Mrs Ws complaint centres on what she believes to be the 
failure of Prudential to provide her with confirmation, that by continuing with the quote from 
Prudential she may have been better off by taking an annuity from a different provider. She 
says has been financially disadvantaged as a result.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider having been good industry 
practice at the time.
As our investigator explained on 1 November 2007, the FSA updated its rules for regulating 
the conduct of the business of authorised persons carrying on designated investment 
business by introducing COBS  the Conduct of Business Sourcebook.
The rules about explaining the open market option (OMO) were moved from COB 6 to 
COBS 19.4.1 R (3). This says the provider has to issue an open market option statement to 
the consumer, which it defines as either:
(a) the FSA's "Your pension: it's time to choose" factsheet, together with a written summary 
of the retail client's open market option, which is sufficient for the client to be able to make 
an informed decision about whether to exercise, or to decline to exercise, an open market
option; or
(b) a written statement that gives materially the same information.Mrs Ws annuity was arranged on a non-advised basis so what I have to decide it was she 
provided with sufficient information to meet the regulatory requirements to make an informed 
decision when she decided to take her annuity with Prudential.
I have carefully considered the information within the options letter sent to Mrs W dated 24 
October 2011. On page 6 it is headed Open Market Option says:
This option enables you to buy an annuity from another provider. It is your right to compare 
what we, can offer you with what other pension companies can provide. If you wish to take 
the Open Market Option, you may want to seek guidance through a Financial Adviser, who 
may charge for any advice given. The fund available for this option is shown on the covering 
letter.
Please note that this option is not a transfer of benefits. The AVC fund must be used to buy 
an immediately commencing lifetime annuity. Please be aware that if you buy an annuity 
from Prudential, your scheme regulations provide a government-backed guarantee to pay 
your full pension income in the unlikely event that Prudential is unable to. If you use the 
Open Market Option, you will lose this guarantee. However, 90% of your claim should still be 
covered by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). If you require more 
information on this, please refer to the FSCS's website at www.fscs.org.uk or the Key 
Features Document provided with your annuity quote.
If you wish to take an Open Market Option, please indicate on the Claim Form whether tax-
free cash (up to 25% of your available AVC fund) is to be paid. Any tax-free cash sum must 
be paid by Prudential, it cannot be paid by your chosen provider. The remaining fund will 
then be sent to your chosen provider to buy an immediately commencing lifetime annuity.
Im satisfied that this statement within the options letter does meet the regulatory 
requirements as detailed in COBS 19.4.1 R (3) in that it explains an open market option is 
available and goes on to provide information on whether to exercise, or to decline to 
exercise, an open market option. It also states that Mrs W, if she wants to exercise her Open 
Market Option may want to seek the guidance of a financial adviser.
Ive then considered the Key Features document which was sent to Mrs W after Prudential 
acknowledged her claim form along with an illustration. With this document it says:
This illustration is based on standard annuity terms. This is because we don't offer a higher 
annuity income based on any health or lifestyle factors that affect how long you or your 
partner (if joint life) might live, such as medication, occupation, and smoking. This is known 
as an enhanced annuity and if you are eligible for this type of annuity, other providers could 
offer you a much higher level of income.
If you have a serious health condition and your life expectancy is significantly reduced, you 
may be able to get all of your pension paid out tax-free. If this is the case, please contact us 
as soon as possible.
For annuities, it's important to shop around so you can get the highest possible income. If 
you or your partner (if Joint life) have or have had health and/or lifestyle conditions this can 
increase the amount of income you can get It's important for you to know different providers 
may use different criteria to assess health and/or lifestyle conditions which could result in, 
you are getting a higher income. That's why it is very important that you shop around. If you 
don't shop around, you could lose out on a higher income.
This makes it very clear that the annuity Mrs W is taking is on standard terms. Prudential 
provided the annuity on a non-advised basis and so made it clear that other factors can affect the terms and other providers may off a much higher income. Although it refers to 
health and lifestyle factors it makes it very clear that it is important to shop around for the 
highest possible income.
When Mrs W signed the claim form and received the Key Features and an illustration, she 
still had 30 days to change her mind. This would have allowed plenty of opportunity for her to 
gain quotes from other providers if she wanted to. 
Based on the information available I dont agree that the information provided was unclear or 
ambiguous. Im satisfied Prudential provided Mrs W with sufficient information about the 
Open Market Option to make an informed decision and it did so on both the options letter 
and the Key Features document. It also suggested she may need to seek guidance from a 
financial adviser. So, whilst, I appreciate Mrs W will be disappointed I dont uphold her 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman