DRN-2704891
The complaint
Miss I complained that TSB Bank plc trading as TSB (TSB) didnt update her address
accurately when she moved, and TSBs systems problems caused her to pay a supplier late.
What happened
Miss I moved house in July 2017 and advised TSB of her new address. But TSB didnt
change this when she first asked. Miss I called TSB on many occasions to try to sort this out.
Separately, in April 2018 Miss I couldnt access her account through internet banking and
incurred a late payment fee to a supplier of £150.
She was still not receiving post in November 2020. Her cards and PIN hadnt been received.
Miss I complained that letters had been sent to her old address. She spent a lot of time on
the phone to TSB to try to sort out the change of address. This wasnt made until December
2018 after she complained. And when the change was made, it still showed an incomplete
address. Because of the systems problems at TSB in April 2018, she couldnt make a
payment to a supplier and suffered a late fee of £150.
TSB responded in December 2018. They said that Miss Is address still hadnt been changed
and asked her to go to a branch to do this. They apologised for the time it had taken to deal
with Miss Is complaint, and for the hassle she had gone through to try and sort out her
change of address. They paid compensation of £615 - made of £525 distress and
inconvenience and £90 expenses. On Miss Is complaint about the late fee, they wished to
see evidence of the fee being paid for them to consider. They did not comment on the matter
of the new address still being incomplete.
Miss I brought her complaint to this service in February 2020. Our investigator responded in
June 2020. He said that TSB had confirmed that her address had been updated. They had
apologised and paid compensation of £615. He agreed that it was fair to ask to see evidence
of payment of the late fee of £150. He agreed with TSBs view that it was reasonable to
expect Miss I to have made other arrangements to make to the payment - as customers had
been advised by email and letter of the potential for delayed payments due to the upcoming
systems upgrade. He felt that TSB had acted reasonably.
Miss I responded to the investigator. She said that her address had been changed but was
still not correct as it didnt contain the building name. She sent a screenshot of her mobile 
banking screen which showed this. Bank cards had been sent to the wrong address. She
had given TSB the invoice from the supplier which showed the late fee.
The investigator gave a further view. He said that it was now clear to him that the wrong
address was showing in TSBs systems and therefore Miss L couldnt have received the
information about the IT upgrades. He was satisfied that the late fee had been incurred. He
said a further compensation of £450 should be paid.
TSB responded. They said that what Miss L saw on her mobile phone app was different to
what is in their main systems. So, the address was correct. And they hadnt seen evidence
that the late fee had been paid. They said that an email and letter was sent to all customers
about the IT changes. They sent a copy of the email sent to all customers.
Miss I didnt agree and asked that her complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
Its important to note that I have reviewed again  all the evidence here; and Ive come to a 
different decision than our investigator recommended.
There is no doubt that Miss I received poor service from TSB. She moved house in 2017,
and says she advised TSB at that time of the change of address. But it wasnt updated in
TSBs records for many months. TSB say they have no evidence that she contacted them in
2017 about the change of address. Miss I certainly spent a long time on the phone trying to
sort this out.
Miss I went on to say that even after her address was changed in December 2018  it was
still incomplete, as the building name wasnt shown. TSB argued that the address was
complete. They said what Miss I saw on her mobile banking screen  wasnt what was in
their main records  as it shows an abbreviated address. I have seen a screenshot of what is
in TSBs records - and it shows the full address, including the building name. So  I was still
puzzled. We have asked TSB about this again and they say  thats how their systems are
built. They say that the correct post code is shown along with the rest of the address,
including the name of the block of flats. And the other (similar) address has a different
postcode, so the post is being sent to the right address. I also note that TSB say that Miss I
receives little paper correspondence anyway as she has opted for paperless statements and
letters  so most post is sent electronically.
I have no doubt that the whole episode was frustrating and time-consuming for Miss I  but
TSB have dealt with Miss Is complaint and they have put things right. They have paid Miss I
compensation of £615  made up of £525 for distress and inconvenience, plus expenses of
£90. This is in line with what we would normally expect to see in these circumstances, and I
wont be asking them to pay, or do, anymore.
Turning to the late payment fee of £150, TSB have argued that they wished to see evidence
that it was paid. Miss I produced an invoice only. TSB also say that she shouldnt have tried
to make the payment as customers had been pre-advised - by email - there may have been
problems over the period of the IT changes. We asked Miss I for some evidence that the fee
had been paid, Unfortunately, she couldnt produce this. When recommending that fees like
this should be refunded, we think its reasonable to see some proof that it was paid. And in
this case, there isnt any. So, I dont think its fair to ask TSB to pay this fee.
I realise that Miss I will be disappointed by my provisional decision, particularly after our
investigator recommended a higher award and the payment of the late fee. But, it is my role
to review all the evidence again, with a fresh pair of eyes, and thats what Ive done.
Both Miss I and TSB responded to my provisional decision.
Miss I said (in summary):
She has no other problems with the delivery of mail from other service providers, e.g. 
utility bills, other banks, phone bill. And they show the complete address on their 
correspondence. She showed us a letter from another bank  showing her full 
address, and a screenshot demonstrating that the two addresses are different.
She didnt consider my point that most correspondence is sent electronically was relevant - PIN numbers and new cards were ordered in December 2019 and these 
werent delivered. 
The compensation paid was in December 2018  and the errors on her address have 
continued since then.
She didnt have a receipt for the late payment charge. But she had been given mixed 
messages by TSB staff  one said she needed a receipt, another an invoice.
We put Miss Is points again to TSB. They considered all this again:
They said again that what Miss I sees on her mobile banking app is different to that in 
their records. Her address is correct on their database  especially the postcode. 
TSB cant be responsible for post being delivered to the wrong address.
They have no record of new cards being ordered in December 2019. New ones were 
ordered in June 2020.
The impact of any issues is minimised by the fact that Miss I receives most 
correspondence electronically.
Miss Is address was changed in their records in May 2019 and the compensation 
paid reflects the problems up to then and included within their final response in 
December 2018.
They said they cant be expected to pay the late payment fee without evidence it was 
paid.
So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise the strength of Miss Is feelings about her complaint. My role is to review all the 
arguments and facts from both sides. I can assure her - thats what Ive done. Ive taken on 
board all that Miss I has told us  both previously and in response to my provisional decision. 
We also asked TSB for more information and their comments on Miss Is reaction to it. But 
Im not departing from the findings I reached in my provisional decision.
The critical factor here  is that what Miss I sees on her mobile banking app isnt whats in 
TSBs main systems. Weve asked TSB about this several times and theyve consistently 
told us thats the case here. And theyve confirmed to us that her correct address is shown - 
including the postcode  which is different to the other address which Miss I says has 
received her post. Ive seen a bank statement printed in June 2020 which shows her full, 
correct address in the address box. This confirms what TSB have told us. So  TSB cant be 
held responsible if post isnt being delivered properly by the post office.
On the issue of whether new cards have been received  we have conflicting stories here as 
between Miss I and TSB. But if they were sent out  to the correct address held on TSBs 
file, again, TSB cant be held responsible for non-delivery.
Its unfortunate that Miss I hadnt produced evidence of the payment of the penalty fee. In all 
fairness, we  and TSB  have asked for this several times. And advised her on what would be an acceptable form for it to take. This is separate from what Miss I was or wasnt, told 
previously by TSB staff.
I can see that Miss I wont agree with my final decision and will be disappointed by it, but I 
wont be asking TSB to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman