DRN-3206831
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined their claim against their
travel insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, on 11 February 2020, Mr and Mrs H bought a single trip travel 
insurance policy underwritten by Great Lakes under the InsureMy Travel brand. They 
paid a premium of £52.49. The policy was to cover a trip with departure and return dates 
of 11 May 2020 to 15 June 2020 respectively.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 a pandemic. 
On 17 March 2020, Mr and Mrs Hs intended destination country closed its borders and on 
the same date the Foreign Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advised against 
all but essential travel abroad.
In April 2020, Mr and Mrs H claimed against their policy for travel costs, site fees and 
certain pet costs. Great Lakes said that what happened here wasnt covered by the policy. 
It cancelled the policy from 3 April 2020 and refunded £30.65, which was a pro rata refund 
of the premium Mr and Mrs H had paid. Mr and Mrs H pursued their complaint.
Mr and Mrs H say that the claims process was difficult. They want Great Lakes to pay 
their claim.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He recommended that the complaint 
be upheld and thought that it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to deal with     
Mr and Mrs Hs claim under the cancellation section and the remaining terms of the policy. 
The investigator said that Great Lakes could deduct from any settlement the pro rata refund 
it had already made and any excess due under the policy.
Great Lakes didnt agree with the investigator. It said that what happened here wasnt one 
of the listed, insured events in the cancellation provisions and that there were exclusions 
relating to travelling against the advice of the FCDO and travel to an area subject to a 
pandemic. Great Lakes said that it would consider a refund of premium rather than a pro 
rata refund, but it doesnt think that it should be liable for cancellation costs. Great Lakes 
asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
On 11 November 2011, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case in which I 
indicated that I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. I said:
I dont intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint because I dont think that Great Lakes
treated them unfairly. I say that because:
Mr and Mrs Hs trip wasnt cancelled for any of the reasons set out in the 
cancellation section of the policy. This means their claim isnt covered under the 
terms and conditions of their policy.
Ive also looked at the remaining sections of Mr and Mrs Hs insurance policy, 
but I dont think they held any cover which would pay a benefit in the 
circumstances they found themselves in.
Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in the overall 
circumstances of the case, taking into account industry rules and guidance 
and the relevant law.
The contract  the terms and conditions of the policy - between Mr and Mrs H 
and Great Lakes excludes claims arising as a result of not being able to travel 
to an area subject to a pandemic.
There are some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly 
and transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy exclusions I might 
think its fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the 
policy terms and conditions. However, I dont think thats the case here and Ill 
explain why.
Its hard to say with any certainty that there was one specific reason for         
Mr and Mrs Hs claim. I think a combination of factors  the pandemic, FCDO 
advice and government restrictions both in the UK and abroad  are all likely 
to have impacted to some degree on the cancellation of the trip.
But, Mr and Mrs Hs trip was cancelled after WHO declared covid-19 a 
pandemic. So, not only are the reasons for the cancellation of                  
Mr and Mrs Hs trip not covered as listed, insured events under their 
policy, I think its likely the exclusion Ive quoted above in relation to travel 
to areas subject to a pandemic would apply to the circumstances of their 
claim  anyway.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H but I dont think their claim is covered 
under the terms and conditions of their policy and I dont think there are 
any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask Great Lakes to pay 
their claim.
Mr and Mrs H say that the claim process was difficult. I can see that it took 
longer than wed expect for Great Lakes to consider Mr and Mrs Hs claim. 
But these were unprecedented times and there were unusual and 
unexpected demands on its business. In all the circumstances, I dont 
think that Great Lakes treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly or unreasonably in its 
handling of their claim.
Great Lakes has offered to refund the balance of the premium. Thats 
more than its obliged to do under the terms and conditions of the policy. If 
Mr and Mrs H wish to take up Great Lakes offer they should contact it 
direct.
Responses to my provisional decisionMr H responded to say that he was disappointed by my provisional decision. He said that 
Great Lakes relied on the small print in order to decline his claim. Great Lakes didnt 
provide a response to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note what Mr H said in response to my provisional decision. In considering the complaint, 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs policy and thought about whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An insurer will 
decide what risks it is willing to cover and set these out in the terms and conditions of the 
policy document. Mr and Mrs Hs policy doesnt cover what happened here and, for the 
reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I dont think that Great Lakes acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining Mr and Mrs Hs claim. 
Ive considerable sympathy for the situation Mr and Mrs H found themselves it but for the 
reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I remain of the view that Great Lakes didnt treat 
Mr and Mrs H unfairly or unreasonably in declining their claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
If Mr and Mrs H wish to take up Great Lakes offer to refund the balance of the premium, 
they should contact it direct.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman