DRN-3168748
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M, trading as a business Ill refer to as M, complain about the decision of 
The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited to decline their business 
interruption insurance claim for losses arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
What happened
M operates as a vineyard business, providing various associated services and products. M 
held a Farm Select policy underwritten by The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited (NFU). The policy provided cover for a number of areas of risk including 
business interruption for at least one of their locations. 
In March 2020, M was required to close much of its business as a result of the 
government-imposed restrictions introduced to limit the spread of COVID-19. They contacted 
NFU to claim for the resulting losses. A number of third parties have been involved in the 
various correspondence exchanged on this claim and complaint, but largely speaking I have 
only referred to M and NFU  both for the sake of simplicity and because they are the parties 
to the complaint. 
NFU declined the claim. It said that the core business interruption cover only provided cover 
where damage had led to the interruption. And NFU did not consider COVID-19 or the 
pandemic generally had caused damage as required by the policy. It said that there was no 
cover under the Action of Competent Authority extension to the business interruption 
section, as M had not shown there was defect in its sanitary arrangements or that if there 
was this had led to its closure. NFU also said that there was no cover in the circumstances 
under the Public Emergency extension, in part because the term included an exclusion on 
loss resulting from infectious or contagious disease. 
M was unhappy with this and, when NFU did not change its stance, brought their complaint 
to this service. Our Investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld though. He 
thought NFU had applied the terms of the policy fairly and reasonably. 
M remained unsatisfied and so their complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
M is represented in this complaint. Ms representative has submitted detailed arguments as 
to why it feels Ms claim should be met and the complaint upheld. The arguments submitted 
and pursued by Ms representative are largely the same arguments that it has submitted on 
other complaints from other policyholders. 
The role of this service is to consider each complaint based on its own individual 
circumstances. However, we have developed certain approaches that are then applied to 
those individual circumstances. And where circumstances are similar, it is inevitable that 
similar conclusions will be reached. Ms representative has had this services approach to its 
arguments explained, including within other final decisions of this service. And, unless the 
circumstances of this particular complaint are dissimilar from those previous cases, the 
same approach will be applied to this case. 
However, for the benefit of M, I will set out in this decision why its representatives 
arguments have not persuaded me to uphold its complaint. 
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown had on M. But, largely 
for the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain 
why.
The starting point is to consider the specific policy M took out and what situations the 
insurance it provides responds to. As such Ive considered every aspect of the policy M held 
with NFU to determine whether there are any sections that would require NFU to meet the 
claim M is making. Having done so, I dont think there are. 
Damage 
The core cover provided by the Business Interruption section of the policy, along with 
several of the extensions to this cover, requires there to have been damage. Damage is 
defined within the policy as:
Accidental physical loss, destruction or damage.
Ms representative has argued that COVID-19, and the related Government restrictions, 
were damage. And that such damage does not need to be physical. 
It has argued that because the policy covers accidental damage, and this includes damage 
from any cause excluding a number of specified risks, this means that, unless specifically 
excluded, any cause of damage is covered and that this would include COVID-19 and its 
impact. It has said that this damage does not need to be physical. 
However, I am not persuaded by these arguments. I consider that destruction, damage or 
loss as used in this policy is most likely to refer to something physical. This is a word that is 
included in the definition of damage in the policy. And I do not consider this definition to be 
unclear. The core business interruption cover also requires the relevant damage to have 
occurred to property  something defined within the policy as material property. And 
damage, etc. to something material must inherently be physical. 
Ms representative has referred to a number of legal cases to argue that the virus leading to 
COVID-19, SARS-COV-2, is capable of causing damage. However, having considered the 
cases M has referred to, as well as the rest of the current legal landscape, I do not agree. 
Instead, I agree with the Investigator that damage, as it is required under the policy, would 
require either a physical change to property or specialist cleaning to remove the cause of 
damage. 
I dont consider it can be said that physical changes were caused by SARS-COV-2 to 
property, whether that be Ms property, its suppliers property, or property within the 
immediate vicinity or a mile of Ms premises. And I also dont consider that any specialist 
cleaning of such property was required. So, I dont think there was relevant damage, and I 
think NFU acted fairly and reasonably when declining Ms claim under the parts of the policy 
that required such damage.I also dont think, for similar reasons, that there has been destruction of property. And I dont 
think the temporary loss of use of Ms premises (or the premises of their suppliers) would 
constitute loss as required by the policy. I consider this would need to be more than a 
temporary loss, where recovery was uncertain  the basic principle being that the relevant 
sections listed above would provide indemnity to replace that lost property. 
Whilst I appreciate the pandemic has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think 
COVID-19, or the related government measures, caused damage as defined by the policy 
which has led to an interruption of Ms business. So, I dont think either the core business 
interruption cover, or the extensions that rely on there having been damage, provide cover in 
the circumstances of Ms claim. And I think NFU acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting 
Ms claim under these areas of cover.
Action of Competent Authority extension
This extension to the business interruption section of Ms policy does not require there to 
have been damage that led to the interruption. However, what is required is:
the closure or restriction in use of the PREMISES by a competent local authority due 
to defects in the drains or other sanitary arrangements or discovery of vermin or 
pests at the PREMISES.
It has been disputed whether the authority that introduced the restrictions that impacted M 
was a local authority or not. However, regardless of this point, it is first necessary to consider 
whether M has demonstrated that there was a defect in its sanitary arrangements which led 
to any such action. This is the argument Ms representative has made. 
Ms representative has said that there was defective sanitation at Ms premises because 
safe social distancing could not be maintained and, as a result, regulations were imposed on 
Ms business. 
However, I consider a key question here is whether or not an inability to enforce social 
distancing could be said to qualify as a defect in the sanitary arrangements at Ms premises. 
To reach a fair and reasonable outcome Ive considered, amongst other things, relevant 
case law, in particular the case of Brushfield Ltd (T/A The Clarence Hotel) v Arachas 
Corporate Brokers Ltd & Anor [2021] IEHC 263. This case took place in the Irish courts, but 
in the absence of a comparable English case, I feel it is useful to consider the points made in 
this case in terms of considering how an English court might decide this point of contractual 
interpretation. 
The judge in this case considered policy wording similar to that in Ms policy and considered, 
in part, the meaning of the term other sanitary arrangements, when used in context similar 
to Ms complaint. The judge in this case said at paragraph 164: 
 it is essential to consider the meaning of a contractual provision as of the date 
when the contract was concluded. The question, accordingly, is whether a 
reasonable person, in the position of the parties at the time the contract was 
concluded, would understand that the reference to a defect in the other sanitary 
arrangements at the premises was intended to capture an inability to ensure that 
appropriate social distancing was maintained. 
This reflects the position of English Law that the meaning of a contract should be interpreted 
objectively, by considering what would be understood by a reasonable person, with the 
relevant background knowledge, at the time the contract was entered.Ms policy was entered in March 2019, before COVID-19 even existed and certainly prior to 
the disease being widely known. And, whilst social distancing has been practiced throughout 
history as a means of preventing the spread of disease, until recently, this was not the case 
in the UK. So, I am not persuaded that a reasonable person reading the particular wording of 
Ms policy in March 2019 would have considered this subclause to refer to an inability to 
enforce social distancing at Ms premises. 
Additionally, it isnt clear what Ms representatives consider the defect at Ms premises 
actually is. As the judge in Brushfield said at paragraph 166, A defect inherently involves 
some element of deficiency or fault. M is a vineyard, providing some catering and 
accommodation. But no evidence has been provided to suggest there was any deficiency or 
fault in its sanitary arrangements. Im not persuaded that the normal operation of a business 
can be called a defect, and certainly not a defect specific to Ms premises which led to its 
closure. 
I also havent been provided with any evidence to suggest it was the circumstances at Ms 
premises in particular that led to the Governments decision to introduce the restrictions it did 
in March 2020. For these reasons, I consider NFUs decision to not to meet Ms claim under 
this extension was fair and reasonable.
Public Emergency extension
The last extension to the business interruption section of Ms policy that I consider it 
necessary to specifically discuss provides cover for losses arising from the actions of a 
relevant authority as a result of an emergency. However, the extension includes the 
following:
WE will not pay for any loss resulting from infectious or contagious disease.
COVID-19 is an infectious or contagious disease. And the actions taken by the UK and 
Welsh Governments that interrupted Ms business were taken to limit the spread of this 
disease. 
I am not persuaded by Ms representatives argument that a list of specified diseases that 
appears in another extension, which was not included in the cover M took out, means the 
term above should be interpreted as referring to this same list. The other extension is quite 
clear that the list relates to that extension, whereas the wording in the Public Emergency 
extension is broad and is not limited to such a list. 
I consider this extension does not provide cover in circumstance where Ms business has 
been interrupted as a result of actions taken by a relevant authority due to COVID-19. As 
these are the circumstances of Ms claim it follows that I do consider NFU acted 
appropriately when declining Ms claim under this extension.
M's representative has made a general point that the policy does not include a specific 
exclusion for pandemics. But this is a policy that provides cover only for certain, defined 
risks. Until is has been shown that one of those risks applies to a set of circumstances, it is 
not necessary for the cover provided to be limited by any exclusion. 
Having carefully looked at the rest of the terms in Ms policy, I dont consider Ms claim ought 
to have been met under any of them. I know this decision will be disappointing for Mr and 
Mrs M, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough explanation of why this policy doesnt 
offer cover in the circumstances of Ms claim.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman