DRN-4084848
The complaint
Mr E and Mrs H complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited cancelled their home 
insurance policy and so didnt settle a claim theyd made after their home was burgled.
What happened
At the relevant times, Mr E and Mrs H had a home insurance policy underwritten by RSA 
which covered their home and its contents, amongst other things. 
They made a claim in November 2021 after their home was burgled whilst they were out. 
Mr E and Mrs H said a number of items of jewellery and watches had been stolen, along with 
£15,000 in cash.
RSA accepted the claim and instructed a loss adjuster to handle it. Mr E and Mrs H provided 
the loss adjuster with details of the stolen items. These were then valued by an expert at, in 
total, around £57,000.
When they interviewed Mr E, he told the loss adjuster that the claim might have been 
significantly higher if the thieves had found other jewellery that Mrs H had hidden in 
handbags in the room the burglars had entered.
The loss adjuster told Mr E and Mrs H there were policy limits which applied. Although the 
overall cover for contents was unlimited, there was a limit for valuables (including jewellery 
and watches) at £40,000 and a single item limit of £3,000. They also said the limit for cash at 
the property was £1,000.
Because they were concerned that the cover hadnt been suitable for Mr E and Mr Hs needs 
and/or that they may have been underinsured, the loss adjuster asked Mr E and Mrs H to 
provide a list of valuable items which hadnt been stolen and which were kept in the property. 
Mr E told them there were now no such items kept at his home. The loss adjuster pointed 
out they were interested in what items were in the home at the at the time of inception in 
September 2019 and at the time of the latest renewal, in September 2021. 
Mr E and Mrs H refused to provide those details, believing them to be irrelevant in terms of 
the settlement of their claim because those items hadnt been stolen. They also made a 
complaint to RSA about the handling of the claim.
RSA didnt uphold the complaint and told Mr E and Mrs H that it was reasonable to ask for 
the list of valuable items theyd requested. 
And, after asking for the list several times, they then cancelled the policy on the basis that 
Mr E and Mrs H hadnt cooperated with their assessment of the claim. They also explained 
that, the policy having been cancelled, the claim had been closed.
Mr E and Mrs H werent happy with this and brought their complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think RSA had done anything wrong. 
Mr E and Mrs H disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I am sorry that Mr E and Mrs H were burgled. They clearly lost items which were 
not only worth a lot of money but also had great sentimental value. 
There were items that had been inherited, for example, and a wedding ring. I can understand 
Mr E and Mrs H being extremely upset and saddened by the loss of those possessions.
There are two primary questions for me in making a decision in this case. 
First, was it reasonable for RSAs agents to ask Mr E and Mrs H to provide the list of 
valuables kept at the property which werent stolen? 
And second, was their decision to cancel the policy (and close the claim) fair and reasonable 
once Mr E and Mrs H had failed to provide that list?
It's not for me at this point to decide whether Mr E and Mrs H were in fact underinsured. Or, 
if they were, whether that was their fault or a consequence of a lack of clarity in the 
questions they were asked when they took out the policy. Or how RSA should settle the 
claim in light of any underinsurance. 
RSA werent able to answer those questions themselves  or decide on how the claim 
should be settled  because they werent in possession of the facts required to make those 
decisions. 
Im aware that Mr E and Mrs H think that the value of the valuables which werent stolen is 
irrelevant to their claim, but I dont agree with that. It is perfectly reasonable for RSA to want 
to know the actual size of the risk they were being asked to cover.
In short, Mr E and Mrs H paid a premium based on the risk they declared to RSA when they 
took out the policy. 
On the face it, there is a reasonably strong case  based on the valuation of the stolen 
jewellery and what Mr E told the loss adjuster about other valuables at the property at the 
time of the burglary  that the risk was in fact far larger than Mr E and Mrs H had declared. 
If that were in fact the case, then RSA would be entitled to consider whether they should 
settle the claim - and if so whether they should do so proportionally - based on the proportion 
of the actual risk that Mr E and Mrs H had declared.
As I say, RSA werent able to answer those questions, because Mr E and Mrs H have 
refused to provide the relevant information which would allow a calculation of the total value 
of the valuable items at risk (both those that were stolen and those that were not).
I can see from the evidence we have on file that Mr E and Mrs H were asked to provide that 
information several times. And, at least on the later of those occasions, the consequences of 
them not doing so were made clear. 
I can also see that Mr E told the loss adjuster he would not be providing the information 
theyd requested.When first asked to provide the relevant details, Mr E initially told the loss adjuster that there 
were no longer any valuables at the home. 
When they said that was irrelevant and they needed to know what valuables were kept at the 
home when the policy was bought and/or renewed and/or at the time of the burglary, Mr E at 
the very least implied there hadnt been any valuables kept in the home at those times. 
It seems to me that Mr Es version of events changed in the course of that dialogue. And the 
position he eventually came to appears to contradict what he told the loss adjuster when 
they first interviewed him after the burglary. 
In that interview, Mr E said Mrs H had other items of jewellery hidden - in the burgled room  
which, had they been found and taken by the burglars, would have made the claim value 
significantly higher. 
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im satisfied it wasnt unreasonable for RSA to ask 
Mr E and Mrs H to provide the information they requested about the non-stolen valuables.
When that information wasnt provided, it meant RSA couldnt properly assess the claim and 
decide on a settlement figure. So, once theyd given Mr E and Mrs H several opportunities to 
cooperate - and had been definitively told by Mr E they wouldnt - I dont think RSA had any 
realistic option but to close the claim and cancel the policy.
I note that the policy terms state very clearly  in the section on claims conditions  that 
when making a claim the policyholder must:
 provide us with any information and assistance that we may reasonably 
require
And they say that if the policyholder doesnt meet those claim conditions:
 we may need to reject a claim payment or a claim payment could be reduced.
In summary, Ill repeat the point that Im not drawing any conclusions here about whether,  
and/or to what extent, Mr E and Mrs H were in fact underinsured  or about whether it would 
be fair to refuse the claim or settle it proportionally if they were.
Im satisfied though that RSA were entitled to ask Mr E and Mrs H to provide information 
about the valuables kept at their home which werent stolen, in order to progress the claim. 
And that they were entitled to close the claim and cancel the policy when Mr E and Mrs H 
refused to provide that information.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr E and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman