DRN-1202873
 
The complaint
Mr F has complained about the loans PDL Financial Limited (trading as Mr Lender) gave 
him. He says the loans were unaffordable.
What happened
 Mr F took six instalment loans from PDL Financial between October 2014 and May 2019. Mr 
F did not make any repayments to the last loan and it is still outstanding. A summary of Mr 
Fs borrowing is shown below.
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments AmountHighest 
Repayment
1 12/10/2014 02/03/2015 6 £400 £206.66
2 02/03/2015 28/07/2015 5 £500 £204.00
3 28/07/2015 27/11/2015 5 £600 £273.60
4 27/11/2015 27/05/2015 6 £600 £240.00
Significant Gap
5 31/01/2018 26/07/2018 6 £600 £229.60
6 26/07/2018 26/02/2019 12 £1,500 £335.12
7 31/05/2019 outstanding 12 £800 £175.56
PDL Financial offered to write off the balance on loan 7 (both the capital Mr F still owed it, 
along with interest and charges).
Our adjudicator felt the offer was a fair outcome and explained she wouldnt recommend any 
more than the business had already offered Mr F. This was on the basis that she would only 
have recommended an award on the last loan.
Mr F did not agree. He said he had other lending in the gap between loans 4 and 5 and his 
credit file shows this. He also had county court judgements (CCJs) in the gap which PDL 
Financial ought to have considered; effectively bridging the gap.
I issued my provisional decision on 21 May 2020. Mr F has not provided any more evidence 
or arguments. PDL Finance did not agree with my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, my decision remains the 
same. For completeness, I have set my provisional decision out below and addressed those 
arguments that I consider material to the outcome within it to form my final decision
I have taken into account all the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when PDL Financial lent to Mr F. 
The FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook for credit-
related regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit 
providers, such as PDL Financial. 
It is important to note that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly how an assessment of 
affordability is to be carried out but the extent and scope and the types and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess the sustainability 
of the arrangement for the consumer.
In other words, the assessment needs to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of 
the risk to the lender of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer of incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequence as a result of the 
decision to lend.
As set out in CONC, the risk to the consumer directly relates to the particulars of the lending 
and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of 
creditworthiness would likely need to be flexible. That is to say, what is sufficient for one 
consumer might not be for another, or indeed what might be sufficient for a consumer in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same consumer in other circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance, the greater the 
potential risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that PDL Financial should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include, but are not limited to:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
PDL Financial was required to establish whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because CONC defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular the 
customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
It follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
So, although Mr F repaid some of the loans early, it doesnt automatically follow that he 
managed to repay his loans in a sustainable way. And the regulations are quite clear that 
PDL Financial needed to assess the whether the credit it agreed was affordable in a 
sustainable manner. 
Loans 1-3
The information provided by PDL Financial does suggest that Mr F was asked to declare 
details of his monthly income, along with a breakdown of his monthly expenses; including 
other short-term lending. PDL Financial also acquired some basic information from a credit 
reference agency. This information does not show the level of detail an individual 
consumers credit report shows and there was no specific requirement for PDL Financial to 
carry out credit searches before lending. The criteria it searched for included bankruptcy and 
IVAs (individual insolvency agreements). The results of the credit searches did not indicate 
any adverse information.
I accept that Mr Fs actual circumstances werent reflected in the information he provided or 
the credit information PDL Financial obtained. But, in the absence of anything to suggest 
that it was likely to be unreliable, PDL Financial was entitled to rely on this information. It was 
early on in the lending relationship and the repayments that Mr F agreed to make on his 
loans were relatively modest compared to the monthly income that he declared to PDL 
Financial. I dont think there was any reason for PDL Financial to doubt the information Mr F 
gave it.
And, even after allowing for his regular monthly expenditure and other borrowing, Im 
satisfied that the repayments would have appeared to be easily affordable for Mr F.
So given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Fs circumstances at the 
time, and his lack of borrowing history with PDL Financial, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate for PDL Financial to ask him for any further information (which may have 
shown the lending was unsustainable). So, I dont think PDL Financial was wrong to give 
loans 1-3 and Im not upholding these loans.
Loan 4
I dont think it will always be appropriate or necessary to rely on a pounds and pence 
affordability assessment where there is other information available to support that a 
consumer may be unable to settle a loan sustainably. I think the way in which Mr F was 
borrowing by this point demonstrated that he wasnt managing his finances and was unlikely 
to have been settling his loans sustainably. This ought to have been apparent to PDL 
Financial by loan 4.
I say this because this was Mr Fs fourth loan in just over thirteen months and Mr F had been 
indebted the entire time. Mr F had increased his borrowing from £400 to £600 during this 
period. Mr F had returned the same day for a new loan on each occasion with all of his 
previous loans. Mr F wasnt really repaying his debt to PDL Financial. Each loan evidently left a gap in his finances, leaving him needing to borrow again the same day to fill that gap. 
PDL Financial says it is unfair to make assumptions that Mr F was unlikely to have been 
settling his loans sustainably so early on in the borrowing relationship. But Mr F has been 
continuously indebted to PDL Finance for 13 months by this point and loan 4 served to 
increase his indebtedness for a further six months. So I dont agree this is early on in the 
borrowing relationship.
This also ignores what I said above (and in my provisional decision) that a borrower wont be 
able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further. Mr F repaid loan 1 and took out loan 2 on the same 
day. Mr F repaid loan 2 and took out loan 3 on the very same day. So by time Mr F repaid 
loan 3 and was asking to borrow a fourth loan on the same day, he was demonstrating that 
he could not meet his repayments without borrowing further.
PDL Financial further feels that Mr F has evidenced that there were no issues as he had 
other lending in the gap between loans 4 and 5 and his credit file shows this. In my mind this 
just serves to reinforce the fact that Mr F was not repaying his loans in a sustainable 
manner. This is because, as I said above CONC defines sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. 
So as a responsible lender PDL Financial would have realised this and I dont think it would 
have agreed loan 4 and so I am upholding loan 4.
Loan 5
There was a 20-month gap between the repayment of loan 4 and when loan 5 was agreed. I 
dont think it was unreasonable for PDL Financial to have considered Mr Fs position had 
recovered in the time that had passed by. I think this was a long enough gap to treat him in 
the same way as a new borrower. So, I think it reasonable for the level of checks to be less 
(rather than more) thorough. On this basis, I think the checks PDL Financial did were enough 
and the information Mr F declared about his income and expenses suggested the loan 
repayments were affordable. There was nothing adverse in the searches. I note Mr F says 
he had CCJs in this 20-month gap, but this did not show up on the searches PDL Financial 
carried out. And, as I said above, there was no regulatory requirement to specifically search 
for this information. I dont think PDL Financial ought reasonably to have been aware of Mr 
Fs CCJs at this stage and I dont think PDL Financial did anything wrong when it agreed 
loan 5. So Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint about loan 5.
Loan 6
Loan 6 was taken on the same day loan 5 was repaid and was for a much larger amount. 
The monthly repayments Mr F had to commit to were more and now needed to be 
maintained over a 12-month term. At this point I think PDL Financial ought to have done 
more than rely on the information Mr F was providing about his finances. I think it should 
have taken steps at that time to have verified Mr Fs true financial position. 
PDL Financial says it would not have been proportionate to do so. But I think that Mr Fs 
borrowing history itself suggested there was a reasonable prospect the information he 
provided was inaccurate. I think it ought to have been apparent to PDL Financial by loan 6 
that Mr F did not really have a weekly disposable income of £627. If he had, it seems unlikely 
he would need to borrow a loan for almost three times the amount the one he had just 
repaid. And, in these circumstances, I think that PDL Financial ought to have taken steps to verify the accuracy of the information.
It could have done this independently or by asking Mr F to provide supporting evidence such 
as payslips, utility bills, or bank statements. I appreciate PDL Financial may have acquired 
Mr Fs payslips  but this would only have verified his income and not his true expenditure 
details. So, I dont think PDL Financials checks fully verified Mr Fs true financial position. 
I have seen Mr Fs bank statements and credit report and I think these are the best 
indication of what Mr Fs actual finances were like at the time. If PDL Financial had done 
what I consider to be proportionate checks at the time of loan 6, it would have discovered 
that Mr F had at least 3 other outstanding short-term loans. More broadly Mr Fs evidence 
demonstrates he was not in a good way financially, but I dont think I need to detail that here.
The reason I say this is because of what Ive said in my provisional decision and what Ive 
said at the start of this decision. PDL Financial was required to establish whether Mr F could 
sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. And CONC defines sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments.
PDL Financial says its own checks did not show Mr F had other short term lending. I dont 
know why its own checks did not pick up on these but as I have already said, I dont think the 
checks PDL Financial did were enough at this stage.
So, I think PDL Financial would have seen all of this and been concerned that Mr F would 
not be able to meet his repayment for loan 6 sustainably. On this basis, I dont think it would 
have agreed loan 6. So, Im upholding the complaint about loan 6.
Loan 7
Although there was a three-month gap between the end of loan 6 and the start of loan 7, I 
dont think this was long enough for PDL Financial to reasonably have thought Mr Fs 
financial situation had recovered. And, although the loan amount and repayments were 
lower, they still needed to be sustained over a further 12-month term. PDL Financial says the 
repayments reduced over the term. But I still think PDL Financial should have continued to 
verify Mr Fs true financial position for the same reasons as I have explained above. If it had 
done so, it would have discovered Mr F still had at least three other short-term loans 
outstanding. I think PDL Financial would have seen all of this and been concerned that Mr F 
would not be able to meet his repayment for loan 7 in a sustainable manner  for the same 
reasons I have explained above. On this basis, I dont think it would have agreed loan 7. So, 
Im upholding the complaint about loan 7 as well.
Putting things right
In circumstances where I dont think the lender shouldve given a loan, I would generally still 
expect a consumer to repay the money borrowed. This is because the consumer has had 
the benefit of this money. So typically, I wouldnt say the business needed to write off the 
outstanding capital balance.
PDL Financial made a gesture of good will on loan 7 which included writing off unpaid 
capital of £800. I dont know if this offer will still be open to Mr F in light of my findings. PDL 
Financial did not comment on this in response to my provisional decision. If it is then PDL 
Financial does not need to apply section D in the compensation set out below. I have set out below what I consider to be fair compensation in this case. 
PDL Financial shouldnt have given Mr F loans 4, 6 and 7.
I understand that there is still an outstanding debt and Mr F has never paid anything towards 
this debt. I understand that PDL Financial still owns this debt.
A. PDL Financial should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr F towards 
interest, fees and charges on loans 4 and 6.
 
B. PDL Financial should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made 
by Mr F which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr F originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. PDL Financial should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 
7.
 
D. The amounts calculated in A and B can be used to repay any balance remaining 
on outstanding. Looking at the amounts involved this should result in a surplus, which 
should be paid to Mr F. 
 
E. PDL Financial should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Fs credit file 
in relation to loans 4, 6 and 7.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL Financial to deduct tax from this interest. PDL 
Financial should give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax PDL Financial has deducted, 
if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I partially uphold Mr Fs 
complaint and PDL Financial Limited (trading as Mr Lender) should put things right as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman