DRN-3371991
The complaint
Mr W complains that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) lent him a loan when it shouldnt have done 
so.
What happened
L2G lent Mr W one loan in August 2018. The loan was for £500 to be repaid over 18 monthly 
instalments of £113.28. Mr W was due to repay £2.039.04 towards the loan. Mr W didnt 
make any payments towards the loan and L2G has said it has sold the debt.
When Mr W complained to L2G it didnt uphold his complaint but as a goodwill gesture 
offered Mr W a 50% reduction on the interest charged on his loan in full and final settlement 
of his compliant. 
As I understand it, Mr W didnt accept this offer and referred his complaint to this service, 
where it was looked at by one of our adjudicators.
Our adjudicator thought that L2G should have taken its checks further before agreeing to 
lend. Our adjudicator requested information about Mr Ws finances at the time  specifically 
his bank statements so he could assess the complaint. Mr W was unable to provide the 
information. Our adjudicator said that on the basis of the information he had, he couldnt say 
that L2G was wrong to lend.
Mr W disagreed as said the fact he had an active county court judgement (CCJ) at the time 
of the loan should have made L2G aware that it shouldnt have lent to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
L2G needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.  
Although this was Mr Ws first loan with L2G, I think given the term and the overall cost of 
this loan, L2G should have been looking to build a full picture of Mr Ws circumstances 
before agreeing to lend.
Im also mindful of some of the adverse information on Mr Ws credit file. From the 
information provided, Mr W had a number of historic defaults and a CCJ recorded against 
him. I think given the overall health of Mr Ws credit file and the historic nature of the adverse 
information, I wouldnt have expected L2G to necessarily decline lending to him based on 
that. I think there was enough in the credit file to prompt L2G to take its checks further.
As L2G didnt do this, I dont think it did enough before agreeing to lend.
But L2G not doing enough checks isnt enough for me to uphold this complaint, I need to 
think about what it would have seen had it taken its checks further and whether that would 
have led to a different lending decision. 
Usually, Id look to see what Mr Ws circumstances were at the time of the loan, but this 
service has requested copies of Mr Ws bank statements, but he hasnt been able to provide 
this. So, in the absence of this information, I dont know what L2G would have found had it 
taken its checks further and I cant say it was wrong the lend based on the information I 
currently have.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman