DRN-2766247
The complaint
Mr S complains about the cost of his private medical insurance policy with AXA 
PPP Healthcare Limited.
What happened
Both sides are aware of the background to this complaint, so I have only summarised what 
happened below. 
Mr S originally had access to a private medical insurance policy through work. He chose an 
option to retain cover as a private customer when he left that employer, and his policy was 
underwritten on a medical history disregarded basis, meaning all of his pre-existing 
conditions were covered.
In 2019 Mr S complained about the cost of his policy and said AXA was pricing him out of 
the market because he couldnt get the same level of cover elsewhere.
AXA looked into the costs of Mr Ss policy and said it was reflective of the level of cover he 
had in place. It said the only increases in his premiums had been because of his age, the 
rising cost of medical treatment, and the price of insurance premium tax (IPT). And it said 
the cost of the policy was in line with other members of the same age, and with the same 
level of cover. 
AXA explained that it wasnt able to just reduce the cost of Mr Ss policy because he could 
no longer afford it. Nor was it able to guarantee that the costs of his policy would not rise in 
the future. But it did explain what Mr S could do to bring the future costs of the policy down 
himself  for example, adjusting some of the benefits it provided and/or adding an excess. 
And, as a gesture of goodwill, it removed the monthly premium for three months. 
Mr S said AXAs response didnt provide him with sustainable options for the future costs of 
his policy. So, he referred his complaint to this service and told us that he wanted a 
sustainable annual cost and a reimbursement of what hed been overcharged. 
Our investigator looked at what had happened. They explained the reasons for the premium 
increases were as AXA had advised, and they said they thought AXA had treated Mr S in the 
same way as other customers of the same age and with the same level of cover. Our 
investigator also thought AXA had acted reasonably by offering Mr S a number of options to 
reduce the cost of his policy. And so, they didnt recommend his complaint be upheld. 
Mr S disagreed at length and thought errors had been made. He said we should have looked 
at other policies on the open market to see that AXA was charging him too much, and he 
provided a comparison quote to support his position. He also said AXA hadnt offered him 
any alternatives. And he said that any increases in his premiums should not be taking his 
health into account. 
So, as no agreement was reached the matter was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has set out his complaint in detail and I thank him for taking the time to do so. Within 
this decision I will only focus on those matters I consider central to the outcome of this 
complaint. So, although I have considered everything thats been made available, I will not 
address every point or argument that has been raised. I trust that will not be taken as a 
matter of discourtesy. 
I should also say at the outset that this service neither polices or regulates the industry, that 
is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. We look at individual complaints, which is what 
I have done here. 
It isnt unusual to see the cost of an insurance policy increase each year  especially in the 
event of a policyholder getting older, and the general costs of insured treatment increasing. 
However, an insurer should be able to demonstrate that it has treated a policy holder fairly, 
and in the same way as other policy holders in similar circumstances with the same cover.
Looking at the terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy, I can see they set out some of the more 
common reasons which can lead to an increase in policy costs. They read:
There are a number of reasons why the cost of your healthcare insurance could increase. 
We review subscriptions each year and make calculations based on a number of factors. 
Two of the more common reasons are because:
Your subscription will tend to rise as you get older. This is because, unfortunately, as 
we get older we all tend to suffer more health issues.
The cost of medical treatment tends to rise too as new and better ways of diagnosing 
and treating diseases are developed. We regularly review our plans to keep them up 
to date and to include new tests and treatments where we can.
Please note that your subscription also includes Insurance Premium Tax and any other 
taxes relevant to your membership.
As our investigator rightly explained, AXA has set out that the cost of Mr Ss policy increased 
because of his age, the cost of medical inflation, and the increases in IPT. I know that Mr S 
is also concerned that his health might have led to an increase too. But I havent seen any 
evidence to demonstrate that, and I cant see that AXA has treated Mr S any differently to 
another policyholder with the same circumstances and level of cover.
I am aware that AXA spoke to Mr S about the options that remained available to him to 
reduce the future costs of his policy. For example removing some of the benefits that were 
included with his cover, or including an excess. I note Mr S chose not to go ahead with any 
of those options, as going forward he wanted to retain the same level of cover and benefits. 
But I do think it was right of AXA to inform Mr S of what options were available to him. 
I appreciate Mr S says he can no longer afford his current policy and cannot find the same 
level of cover elsewhere. But while I empathise with his position, for the reasons given above 
I cannot fairly conclude that AXA has intentionally tried to price him out of the medical 
insurance market. And I dont think it was unreasonable of it to confirm that it could not 
guarantee that the cost of his policy would not rise in the future either. 
Looking at the example quote that Mr S provided I can see it appears to come with a policy excess. Mr Ss policy doesnt currently have an excess attached to it, so Im not persuaded 
this is a fair comparison. However, being able to find a cheaper quote is not, in and of itself, 
evidence of a policy being unfairly priced. 
Insurance pricing practices have changed over the years and at present new policies are 
often offered at discounted prices. The premiums for new policies will often increase over 
time too  to recoup the initial discounts offered. And the ability to source a different price 
now, does not automatically mean that something has gone wrong with an insurers pricing. 
I empathise with the position Mr S has explained he is in, but in view of the reasons given 
above I cant conclude that AXA has treated him unfairly. And so, although I realise Mr S 
may be further disappointed by these findings, I will not be upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman