DRN-1705432
 
The complaint
W, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc should've done more before 
closing its business banking account. W is represented by its director 'Mr M'.
What happened
W had a business account with HSBC. In December 2018, W was asked to provide 
information in line with the bank's Safeguard process - this initiative is designed to safeguard 
customers' accounts from financial crime. Mr M completed the online Safeguard form in 
January 2019.
W's account was frozen in May 2019. When Mr M contacted HSBC, he was told this had 
happened because he'd failed to provide further information it'd requested following the 
submission of the form. And that in March 2019 a letter was sent to W's registered address 
notifying it of the intention to close the business account. HSBC agreed to reinstate W's 
account, allowing further time to provide the requested information. Mr M resubmitted the 
form and in June 2019, HSBC notified him that W's account would continue as normal.
Mr M complained to HSBC. He didn't think closing W's account after sending one letter was 
proportionate or fair. Mr M acknowledged he'd only picked up the closure letter two months 
after it'd been sent as he no longer lived at W's registered address. But he said, given the 
seriousness of W not having an account, HSBC should've tried to contact him by other 
means such as email or phone as well as by post.
HSBC rejected Mr M's complaint. It said its decision to close W's account was due to not 
receiving everything it needed. And the requested information was required to prevent 
financial crime and to meet its regulatory obligations.
Our investigator didn't recommend upholding the complaint. In brief, he thought HSBC had 
given sufficient notice of its intention to close W's account and that this was in line with its 
terms and conditions.
Mr M didn't agree. So the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. I'll also mention at this stage that where there's a dispute about 
what happened I've based my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the evidence.Mr M says HSBC only sent one letter before closing W's account. But I see another notice 
did appear on W's online banking in January, a day after Mr M submitted the Safeguard 
form. A banner was displayed on W's online banking facility - this would've notified Mr M he 
needed to provide more information. So when this wasn't done, a letter was sent to W's 
registered address giving 70-days' notice that the account would be closed. 
Mr M says that if there'd been a banner he would've seen it. I don't doubt that is his sincere 
belief. However, I can see from HSBC's records, which is supported by Mr M's testimony, 
that he mainly used mobile banking rather than online banking - these are two different 
systems with mobile banking offering a more limited service. HSBC says the banner 
would only have been displayed on its online banking service. So I think it's more likely than 
not, that Mr M didn't see the banner given the main way he accessed W's account was 
via mobile banking, where it would not have been displayed.
I also find it unlikely that HSBCs records would be inaccurate. What started all of this off 
was that it had to comply with legal and regulatory obligations by asking its customers to 
supply it with information. In those circumstances, I'm satisfied it would've taken a rigorous 
approach, not least of all because of the possible implications for it if it didn't.
I've also taken into account the fact that HSBC gave 70-days' notice before it closed W's 
account. This closure letter was sent in March but Mr M didn't collect this until May. I 
understand Mr M's personal situation had changed at this point and that he no longer lived at 
W's registered address, but I can't hold HSBC responsible for the delay in picking up 
its letter. And I think if the letter had been collected earlier, Mr M would've had the 
opportunity to resubmit the form before W's account was suspended.
I know that Mr M thinks, in fairness, that HSBC should've tried other means to contact him 
before taking action to close W's account. But, based on the available evidence, I dont think 
that HSBC made an error when it sent the notice or closed Ws account. HSBC didnt have 
to contact Mr M by phone or email - it gave notice in accordance with the account terms.
So for all of these reasons, I'm persuaded that HSBC didn't act incorrectly in closing W's 
account and I won't be upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I'm not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2020.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman