DRN-2110021
The complaint
Ms S complains about U K Insurance Limited (UKI) accepting liability for a claim from 
another driver under her motor insurance policy.
All references to UKI include its agents.
What happened
Ms S returned to her car in a supermarket car park after doing some shopping. The driver of 
the vehicle parked next to hers accused her of hitting and damaging his car. Ms S denied 
she was responsible for the damage. She took photographs of the vehicles, exchanged 
insurance details with the other driver and let UKI know what had happened. 
The other drivers insurer contacted UKI about the incident and said it believed it was caused 
by Ms S. UKI initially refused to accept liability for the incident. But after reviewing further 
information, UKI agreed to settle the other drivers claim. 
Ms S complained to UKI. She didnt want UKI to accept responsibility and was willing to 
attend court. She didnt think there was sufficient evidence to show shed damaged the car. 
There were no marks or scratches, only undisturbed dirt.  Shed been told by a UKI member 
of staff the engineer said it was inconclusive. There were also no eyewitnesses or CCTV. 
UKI thought its decision to deal with the other drivers claim was fair. It said it had reviewed 
the images at the scene of the incident, along with the engineering reports for both Ms Ss 
vehicle and the third party vehicle. The damage sustained to both vehicles was consistent 
with the allegations made the other driver. 
Ms S remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into her concerns but didnt think Ms Ss claim should be upheld. He thought UKI had 
settled the claim fairly and in line with the terms of the policy.
 
Ms S disagreed with our investigators view. She didnt believe there was enough evidence 
for a decision to be made against her. The scratches on her car were already on it when she 
bought it. It was a fluke that they matched the damage to the other drivers car. She hadnt 
seen damage on the other drivers car. Shed only witnessed car dirt shed smudged with her 
hand while looking for the damage hed said shed caused. She felt she was being called a 
liar.
As Ms S has disagreed with our investigators opinion, her complaint has been passed to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ss complaint. Ill explain why. 
Its not my role, or the role of this service, to establish if Ms S is responsible for the damage 
to the other drivers vehicle. What Ive needed to decide is whether or not UKI has acted 
fairly and reasonably and in line with the policys terms and conditions.
UKI says it decided to accept liability for the damage because it believes, on balance, that 
the circumstances reported by the other driver were most likely to be correct. It says if the 
case had gone to court, UKI would have incurred higher costs for the same outcome. 
The policys terms and conditions state that UKI is entitled to take over and carry out the 
negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in (her) name, or in the name of any other 
person covered by this policy. Similar provisions are found in most motor insurance policies, 
so I dont find this unusual. It means UKI is entitled to decide whether to defend a claim or 
settle it.
I can see that UKI didnt agree to accept responsibility for the claim at first. It asked the other 
drivers insurer for witness evidence or CCTV to support it. After reviewing photographs sent 
by the other insurer and Ms S, UKI arranged for an engineer to inspect Ms Ss car.
Having reviewed the photographs, including what was sent by Ms S, Im satisfied there was 
a visible mark on the right-hand side of the other drivers car. Ive also seen a report from the 
engineer who inspected this vehicle, confirming damage to the right-hand side and the cost 
of repair.
The engineer who inspected Ms Ss car has answered yes to the question: Is the damage 
consistent with claim circumstances reported. He also said that the damage to the other 
drivers car (from photographs) looked to be at a similar height and consistent with the 
damage to Ms Ss vehicle. 
I appreciate Ms S feels strongly that she shouldnt be held responsible for the damage. 
Shes adamant she didnt hit the other car and there isnt conclusive evidence to show that 
she did. Having a fault claim on her policy will have affected her premiums and this is no 
doubt very frustrating for her. 
But the terms of the policy allow UKI to decide whether to defend or settle a claim. As an 
insurer, UKI is likely to have experience of how a court would view the evidence that was 
available. With this in mind, I dont think UKIs decision to settle the claim was unreasonable.
Having considered everything, I think UKI has acted fairly and reasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman