DRN-2206990
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that TSB Bank plc (TSB) didnt do more to help them after they 
were victims of a scam.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L hold a joint account with TSB. In late January and throughout February 2019 
they made seven transfers of £25,000 and one transfer of around £17,500 to their children 
from their TSB bank account. The first transfer of £25,000 at the end of January was blocked 
by TSB. Mr L contacted it and confirmed the payment was genuine so TSB processed it.
On 18 February 2019 Mr L was contacted by a party he thought was TSB but turned out to 
be a scammer. Hes said he was told the monthly transfer limit for the account had been 
reached and he couldnt send any further payments. In order to continue making transfers, 
the money needed to be sent to a separate account from where it would be forwarded to the 
intended recipient.
Mr L said the scammer gave him the account details to make the payment to. Hes also said 
he didnt carry out the final transfer of £25,000. Hes said the scammer mustve done this 
somehow using his and Mrs Ls online banking account.
Around four days after the payment was made to the scammer Mr and Mrs L realised the 
money hadnt been forwarded to the intended recipient and they contacted TSB to let it know 
theyd been the victim of a scam. TSB contacted the receiving bank a few days later to try 
and recall the funds. It received conflicting information but the receiving bank has ultimately 
confirmed that by the time the fraud was reported the money had been removed from the 
beneficiarys account and couldnt be returned.
Mr and Mrs L made a complaint to TSB. They said Mr L hadnt authorised the payment 
made to the scammer. They felt TSB shouldve blocked all the transfers due to their high 
value and checked them directly with Mr and Mrs L before processing them. They were also 
unhappy with the way TSB had investigated their fraud claim, its security procedures and 
verification processes.
TSB responded and said general warnings about this kind of social engineering scam 
wouldve been displayed on Mr and Mrs Ls online banking account before Mr L made each 
payment. It felt the payments had all been made using Mr and Mrs Ls trusted device and 
using their personalised security credentials, so it didnt accept that they hadnt authorised 
the final £25,000 payment. 
Mr and Mrs L were unhappy with TSBs response and brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said that:
They felt the evidence theyd seen meant it was more likely than not Mr and Mrs L 
had made the final transfer themselves. And although they were victims of a scam, 
they had authorised the payment and were therefore liable for it.
They didnt think the payment made to the scammer was significantly unusual 
enough that TSB shouldve intervened or blocked the payment as it was the last 
payment in a sequence of high value payments Mr and Mrs L were making, so 
followed a genuine pattern of spending.
They felt TSB had done what theyd expected in contacting the receiving bank to try 
to retrieve the funds and wasnt at fault for the fact this hadnt been possible.
Mr and Mrs L didnt accept the investigators findings. They said that:
TSB shouldve checked every payment that was made to a new payee and because 
the payment that was made to the scammer was to a new payee, it didnt follow any 
existing pattern and shouldve been subject to additional checks.
They maintained they didnt make the payment to the scammer themselves and that 
although they received a one time passcode OTP to the mobile number linked to 
their account, this was received hours after the transfer took place and they didnt 
use it to verify any payment.
They felt the investigator had failed to take into account the relevant wider 
circumstances such as TSBs previous data breaches and general weaknesses in its 
security.
They felt TSB could only fairly refuse to reimburse them for the money if it could 
prove theyd been grossly negligent.
As Mr and Mrs L didnt accept the investigators findings the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Mr and Mrs L authorise the payment?
Mr L, who has authority to transact on the joint account on behalf of both account holders, 
has said he didnt make the transfer to the scammer himself. Hes said the scammer told him 
they would move the money to a third party account before forwarding the money to his son 
in order to circumnavigate the monthly transfer limit.
Because he says he didnt carry out the transfer himself, he says they didnt authorise it. But 
having considered all the available evidence very carefully, I think its more likely than not 
Mr L did make the transfer himself. And although I think he likely did this as the result of a 
sophisticated scam, this means he authorised it and is liable for it in the first instance. In 
reaching this conclusion Ive taken the following into account:
TSBs records show Mr and Mrs Ls online banking was accessed from the same IP 
address that had previously accessed the account on numerous occasions. So the 
transaction was likely made from wherever Mr and Mrs L usually access their online 
banking. And whilst theyve suggested the scammer may have somehow tampered 
with the IP address, I dont think this is likely. It isnt a requirement to always access 
online banking from the same IP address. And as the scammer wouldnt have 
needed to do this in order to gain access to the account, its unclear why they would 
have tampered with the IP address. 
TSBs records set out that the online banking session during which the transfer was 
made was accessed using a trusted device, which is a device that has been used 
previously to access Mr and Mrs Ls online banking. Ive not seen a plausible explanation as to how a scammer wouldve accessed and utilised Mr and Mrs Ls 
previously used devices when theyve said the scammer contacted them over the 
phone. 
TSBs records show a one time passcode (OTP) was sent to the mobile number 
linked to Mr and Mrs Ls account around the time theyve said the scammer moved 
the money from their account. Theyve said they didnt receive this code until hours 
after the payment was made, although I havent seen evidence of this. Theyve also 
said the OTP wasnt used and so TSB hasnt followed its own processes. But 
according to TSBs records, the OTP was sent out and the correct response was 
received minutes later. So based on the evidence Ive seen I think it likely was 
received and responded to. And Ive not seen any plausible explanation as to how 
the scammer wouldve accessed a phone (and the OTP) linked to Mr and Mrs Ls 
account as they said the scammer contacted Mr L over the phone. 
Although Mr and Mrs L have said the scammer carried out the transfer and this is 
what theyd understood was going to happen, at a different point during our 
investigation theyve said Mr L was given the account details to send the payment to 
during his call with the scammer. Theyve said Mr L challenged them because he 
recognised from the sort code the account wasnt a TSB account. But its not clear 
why the scammer wouldve given him the account details if it had been agreed 
between them that the scammer would be making the transfer for him.
Mr L has said he didnt give any information to the scammer relating to his and 
Mrs Ls online banking or other security credentials. So its not clear how the 
scammer wouldve been able to access their online banking in order to make the 
transfer. And whilst they may be suggesting the scammer had somehow accessed 
their online banking logins and hacked into their account remotely, I think this is 
unlikely. I say this because what Mr and Mrs L have described is a social engineering 
scam, where the scammer uses a cover story to persuade someone to carry out a 
banking transaction under false pretenses. Its unclear why a scammer wouldve 
called Mr and Mrs L with a cover story, and risked the scam coming undone, if they 
also had the ability to access the account and move money without Mr and Mrs Ls 
knowledge. And, its not clear why, if they had full access to Mr and Mrs Ls account 
they only wouldve made the one transfer they did.
On balance, and based on the evidence Ive seen I think Mr L more likely than not carried 
out the transfer himself.
Mr and Mrs L have said that TSB must reimburse them for their loss unless it can prove 
theyve been grossly negligent but this isnt the case. Whilst I mightve considered whether 
or not Mr and Mrs L had been grossly negligent if I thought the scammer had accessed their 
details and used their account without their knowledge or consent, as Ive explained above, I 
think Mr L likely authorised the payment himself. So I dont think TSBs liability depends on 
whether or not theyve been grossly negligent in this case.
Should TSB have done more to block the payments?
Whilst I think Mr and Mrs L are liable for the transaction in the first instance, I also need to 
take into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what 
I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Having done so I think TSB 
should fairly and reasonably:Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Mr Ls first transfer of £25,000 attempted at the end of January was blocked. TSB has said 
this is because the transfer of £25,000 hed attempted took him over the daily transfer limit 
due to a transaction hed already made that day. But its records also suggest the payment 
was released when Mr L contacted TSB to confirm the payment was genuine. 
Its unclear exactly why the payment was originally blocked by TSB, but either way I think the 
payment ought reasonably to have been blocked. The transfer was considerably larger than 
the other transactions on Mr and Mrs Ls account in the months leading up to it so I think it 
was significantly unusual enough it shouldve prompted an intervention from TSB. 
And whilst TSB has shown us it did intervene to an extent, and it appears to have checked 
the payment was being made by Mr and Mrs L, I dont think it went far enough in questioning 
them about the payment they were making. I think TSB ought to have asked probing 
questions about the payment to get to the bottom of what it was for and who it was to and I 
think it ought to have sufficiently tested their story to satisfy itself it was plausible. 
That said, had it done so, I dont think it wouldve prevented the fraud that later occurred. I 
say this because the first transfer Mr L made was genuine. So had he been asked about it I 
think its likely he wouldve given persuasive answers to any questions. 
I wouldve expected TSB to be on the look out for any potential risk of fraud and scams and 
if identified, I wouldve expected it to have provided Mr and Mrs L with targeted warnings and 
information around how to protect themselves. But the payment it ought to have discussed 
further with Mr and Mrs L was a genuine payment to a trusted family member. So I dont 
think its likely TSB reasonably wouldve identified any potential fraud or scam related to this 
payment or given them any information that mightve prevented the scam that later occurred.
Mr and Mrs L have said TSB shouldve intervened every time Mr L made a payment to a 
new payee but I dont agree. When TSB is looking for unusual activity, its taking a number 
of different factors into account and comparing the transaction to a general pattern of 
behaviour. So I wouldnt reasonably expect it to block every transaction because of one 
factor, such as a new payee, if the other aspects of the transaction didnt seem unusual. 
In this case, Mr and Mrs L had made a number of transfers for similar amounts by the time 
they transferred the £25,000 to the scammer and theyd spoken to the bank and confirmed 
the first in the series of payments was a genuine payment, as were the subsequent seven 
transfers. So I dont think the transfer to the scammer was significant unusual as it was in 
line with Mr and Mrs Ls spending in the days leading up to it.
Ive also carefully considered Mr and Mrs Ls additional points around the wider 
circumstances they feel should be taken into account in this case. But having considered 
what theyve said carefully it hasnt changed my decision which has been made focussing on 
the individual circumstances of this complaint. Based on the evidence Ive seen, on balance, I think TSB reasonably ought to have 
questioned Mr and Mrs L more when it blocked the first payment. But, had it done so, I dont 
think this wouldve likely prevented the scam Mr and Mrs L later fell victim to. So whilst I am 
sorry to hear about what theyve been through, I cant fairly tell TSB to reimburse the money 
they sent to the scammer.
Should TSB have done more to retrieve the funds?
When TSB was alerted to the fraud that had taken place, according to its records, it 
contacted the receiving bank right away to try and recall the funds which is what I would 
expect it to do in the circumstances. 
After some initial confusion in its responses to TSB, the receiving bank has confirmed to our 
service directly that by the day Mr L reported the fraud to TSB the money had already been 
removed and so couldnt be returned to Mr and Mrs L. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman