DRN-3397104
The complaint
Mr W complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) marked his credit file.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr W took out an interest free loan from BPF to fund the purchase of a 
mobile phone. The loan was for £1,029, and the monthly repayments were £42.99, payable 
over 24 months. The loan was in the name of Mr W, but the direct debit mandate was for 
payments to be made from a limited company account  he said he was a director of that 
company. The first payment was due in January 2020, but this was returned unpaid by the 
bank as refer to payer. It was presented again for payment later that month but was again 
unpaid. The same happened in February 2020.  BPF sent six letters to Mr W between 14 
January 2020 and the end of February 2020 about the unpaid direct debits. On 10 March 
2020, BPF sent Mr W a Notice of Default which said the arrears were £128.97 and this 
needed to be paid by 12 April 2020.  This wasnt paid and Mr Ws credit file was marked. 
The loan was repaid in full by debit card in May 2020.
Mr W complained. He said there must have been a mistake by BPF in collecting the 
payments  as there were sufficient monies in the business account. He said BPF had 
written to him at his home address and as he was abroad, and couldnt get back due to the 
pandemic, he hadnt received the letters that BPF sent him. He said that BPF shouldve used 
other means of communicating such as phone or email. He argued that given the pandemic, 
BPF shouldve acted more reasonably. He said that BPFs complaints process was poor and 
it took him a long time to get a response or replies from them.
BPF spoke to Mr W and said in their final response that the complaint had been resolved 
and an outcome agreed. BPF said to us that no payments had been made by Mr W and so 
his credit file was correctly marked.
Mr W brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said BPF acted reasonably. The loan 
agreement was in Mr Ws name but the direct debit was set up to take payments from the 
business account in the name of the limited company. The direct debits had been returned 
refer to payer and so the loan fell into arrears. BPF had to record accurate information 
about the loan with credit reference agencies  and thats what theyd done. He couldnt see 
why the limited companys bank had returned the debits unpaid, but as far as BPF were 
concerned  our investigator said theyd acted correctly.
Mr W didnt agree. He asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has argued that he shouldnt be held responsible for what happened as:
- He said there must be a glitch in BPFs systems so that the direct debit wasnt set 
up properly  there must be an error on their part. He said there was enough money 
in the business account to meet the direct debit.
- He was abroad for a long period of time and didnt get the letters that BPF sent to 
him. He couldnt get back because of the pandemic. He argued that BPF should also 
have tried to call him or email him  rather than relying on the post.
- He said that under the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) announcements 
regarding the pandemic, he should be treated more reasonably in the circumstances.
- He said the markers on his credit file are therefore unfair.
- He said BPFs complaints process was poor as he could get replies or an answer 
from them.
The loan and direct debit: I can see that the loan was set up in the name of Mr W. So, the 
contract for repayment was between him and BPF. I dont think theres a dispute that this 
was the case. Ive looked at the loan agreement and attached to it is a direct debit mandate, 
signed online by Mr W on 9 December 2019. It doesnt have the details of the account from 
which the payments were to be made. But in a letter dated 10 December 2019  this 
confirms the payments were to be taken from the business account. And it quotes the sort 
code and account number of that account. Mr W has shown us statements for that account 
and a debit card for it  and the bank account details are accurate. 
I also looked at the records of BPF and they show that the direct debit was set up on that 
account  I checked the sort code and account number. I then looked at BPFs records when 
the direct debits were returned unpaid  and they record return to payer  four times 
between January 2020 and February 2020. So - BPF acted correctly and there wasnt any 
error on their part. 
Mr W showed us the statements for the business account held with another bank. It does 
appear that there were sufficient funds available to meet the direct debits when they fell due. 
But I cant say they were wrong to return the direct debits  as we dont know why they did. 
We cant make any inquiries of that bank  because Mr Ws complaint is about BPF. And 
thats what this decision addresses. But it seems to me that Mr W needs to contact that bank 
and find out why the debits were returned unpaid. If there was an error at that bank  then 
they can agree to contact BPF to ask BPF to amend Mr Ws credit file.
Letters: BPF did what they were expected to do  which is to write to Mr W at the address 
they held for him. We dont expect them to have done anymore than that.  It was unfortunate 
that Mr W was away for an extended period of time  but he hadnt advised BPF of that 
either. While we havent looked into the actions of the other bank, it wouldve been normal 
for them to have written also to the business at its address to advise them of the returned 
direct debit  and I see that that was a different address to Mr Ws personal address. So  
he might like to see if that was the case.
Pandemic: I note that the UK lockdown was announced on 23 March 2020  and BPFs 
letters, the Notice of Default, and the missed payments pre-dated that.  Notwithstanding that, 
Mr W is correct  the FCA did make several announcements about how firms should treat 
customers during the pandemic. Ive considered what hes said to us  but the FCAs main 
announcement were to do with the fact that all lenders, including BPF, had to put in place 
payment holidays on many credit agreements. But  these were specifically where a 
customer asked for payment holiday. And where that was agreed by a financial firm, credit 
files werent to be marked with missed payments. But  the FCAs announcement was in 
April 2020  which was after the problems with Mr Ws loan arose. The FCA also made several more general announcements about the effect of the pandemic on bank branches  
which arent relevant to Mr Ws complaint. The FCA didnt say, for example, that no credit 
files should be marked because of the pandemic. And so - I dont think the FCAs 
announcements are relevant to Mr Ws complaint.
Markers on Mr Ws credit file: all lenders, including BPF, must record accurate information 
on customers credit files. And thats what theyve done here. The guidance for dealing with 
defaults is laid down by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). This says when a 
consumer is at least three months behind with their payments then a default may be 
registered. It is the business responsibility to put an entry on the credit file. This cannot be 
taken off unless it is an error. In Mr Ws case, the loan was three months in arrears. And as 
Ive said  I cant say that BPF made an error.
Complaints Processes: This service is governed by strict rules about what complaints we 
can, and cannot, look at. These are covered in The Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook. 
This defines a complaint as being about a financial product or service. These are defined at 
DISP 2.3. So, complaints specifically about a businesss complaint handling or processes 
arent included. So  this aspect of Mr Ws complaint isnt one we can look at.
I can see Mr W feels strongly about his complaint and has sent to us a lot of arguments. But 
in summary, I cant say that BPF acted incorrectly or unreasonably and I wont be asking 
them to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman