DRN-2622998
The complaint
Mr P has complained about 1825 Financial Advice and Planning Limited (trading as 1825). 
Hes unhappy with the lack of ongoing advice he received after he transferred to their service 
from his previous adviser.
What happened
Mr P was a customer of another business for many years and he says he was happy with 
the overall service and advice provided in relation to his SIPP. In December 2016, he was 
told that the individual adviser that handled his work had left the business. The business 
itself was then sold to 1825.
Mr P had meetings with his new adviser from 1825 in 2017. There was a meeting in 
November 2017, when the benefits of agreeing to 1825s terms of business were explained. 
The adviser said that there was a strong argument to introduce more security into Mr Ps 
assets and the possibility of preparing a new recommendation report was mentioned. Mr P 
says that no report was ever sent to him.
1825 sent periodic reports to Mr P but he didnt respond to suggestions that there should be 
review meetings.
Mr P was contacted by a new adviser from 1825 in August 2019. A meeting was arranged 
for October 2019 and during that meeting Mr P raised a complaint about the advice and 
service that had been provided by 1825. 
1825 suspended payment of the ongoing adviser charge and Mr P transferred to different 
advisers.
Mr P says that hes unhappy that he was charged an ongoing adviser fee of 0.5 per cent 
when he never agreed to pay the fee and hes not received any advice from 1825. He says 
theres a conflict of interest in having an adviser that is linked to the product its advising on 
and he feels the meetings he with 1825 were just sales pitches. Despite being reassured the 
service he received would be the same as he had received from his previous advisers, this 
didnt happen. He didnt receive regular advice about the makeup of his portfolio or any 
recommended action for switching funds. Mr P says that 1825 have never provided any 
advice about the balance of his portfolio or the relative performance of funds.
Mr P complained to 1825 but it didnt uphold the complaint, so it was referred to this service.
An investigator considered the complaint, but he didnt think it should be upheld. He said, in 
summary:
On conflict and the right to charge
1825 had demonstrated that the acquisition and transfer of business was approved 
by the FCA. 
1825 was entitled to charge in line with the terms of business Mr P had with his 
previous adviser. The agreement was unchanged and remained in place on transfer.
Mr P could have removed 1925 as servicing agent at any time. This didnt happen 
until February 2020.
With regards to the conflict of interest, there is no regulation that says an adviser 
cant be associated with a pension provider in the way 1825 are associated with 
Standard Life. 
1825 were entitled to charge for financial advice based on the terms of its acquisition 
of the business.
The advice provided 
1825 had shown that between 23 March 2017 and 31 July 2018 it had attempted 
contact with Mr P on twenty occasions via email, telephone and face to face in order 
to discuss his SIPP.
1825 provided both a six monthly and an annual report containing recommendations 
about how to manage the SIPP and inviting Mr P to discuss this further. 1825 also 
provided information about year-end tax information in February 2018. 
During this period, 2017/18, there was no contact from Mr P.
Although Mr P felt he was waiting for a recommendation from the adviser which 
never arrived, the investigator didnt agree that the adviser had said that there would 
be a formal recommendation report. Also, Mr P hadnt got in touch to chase up the 
report he says he was expecting.
After three attempted calls and an email to arrange the annual review meeting, 1825 
decided in July 2018 that sufficient attempts had been made to engage Mr P in the 
advice process. 
As 1825 knew Mr P was aware of how to get in touch, it decided it would wait for Mr 
P to make contact when he wished to. 
The investigator decided that any further contact from 1825 after July 2018 wouldnt 
have made any difference.
Like the previous adviser, 1825 would need consent to execute any advice. The 
investigator decided that the key difference between Mr Ps experience with his 
previous adviser and 1825 was that he hadnt engaged with 1825.
It was difficult to say 1825 didnt provide access to the agreed services when it didnt 
have the opportunity to. There was no reason to believe these services wouldnt have 
been provided if Mr P had engaged.
1825 did enough to try and engage Mr P in the advice process but it couldnt act or 
provide advice without participation from Mr P. 
Mr P didnt agree. He responded and said, in summary:
The previous advisers were independent but 1825 werent. He was unconvinced the 
agreement could remain in force given this difference.
This was borne out by the sales pitch for him to move to the new terms.
If sufficient attempts had been made to contact him, 1825 could have disengaged.
The advice from November 2017 was confusing.1825 never highlighted the poor performance of any funds (or new opportunities) 
therefore he had no knowledge to issue any form of instruction.
He can clearly demonstrate that in the past he had responded in circumstances 
where under-performing assets had been identified.
He felt that 1825 were attempting to force him to sign new terms rather than continue 
to service his needs on the existing terms.
The investigator didnt change his view. He accepted that the previous adviser had been 
independent. The existing terms of business remained in force. Mr P didnt have to stay with 
1825. 1825 couldve done more to continue engaging with Mr P, but this wouldnt have made 
a difference in his view. Mr P had said he wanted to wait and see. The advice in November 
2017 wasnt ambiguous or unclear. Mr P could have asked for clarification. There was 
nothing in the existing terms that defined the method of advice. 1825 had done enough to try 
and contact Mr P to provide their services. 
Mr P reiterated his complaint and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. He added that 
1825s sole reason for continuing to engage him was to take ongoing fees for as long as 
possible and justify this by sending out bland annual reviews with basic commentary on what 
the pension was worth. Any perceived lack of engagement on his part was possibly because 
he didnt wish to have any further discussion over the revised 1825 terms. Mr P wished to 
continue the relationship with 1825 on the same basis and terms as he had enjoyed with the 
previous advisers. Mr P was expecting to receive proactive, appropriate and timely advice 
from which to take decisive action (or not). The pension has underperformed due to the lack 
of advice, although this complaint is limited to the fees paid.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive tried to summarise everything that has been said by the parties, but Ive read everything. 
Ive not addressed each and every point thats been made by the parties in my decision, Ive 
tried to focus on the issues which I consider to be central to the complaint and the outcome. 
Overall, I agree with the investigator and with his conclusions, there is very little that I can 
add to what he has already said. I dont uphold this complaint. Im satisfied that 1825 were 
entitled to make advisor charges under the terms of the agreement which had been 
transferred to them. Mr P new the different status of 1825 and he was free to leave and 
engage new advisers whenever he wished to. 
Im also satisfied that 1825 made reasonable efforts to provide Mr P with advice. Im satisfied 
that the primary reason that no more substantive advice was provided was because of Mr 
Ps lack of engagement. Even if 1825 could or should have done more, Im not satisfied that 
would have made any difference or that it would be fair to uphold the complaint on that 
basis.
Mr P has helpfully set out his view that there are three key elements to his complaint, so Ill 
try and address these in turn.
Adviser status
I understand and accept that Mr Ps original advisers were independent and that 1825 
werent. But Im satisfied that this distinction was, or ought to have been, reasonably clear to Mr P from the outset. And I dont think there is any doubt that Mr P knew and understood 
that 1825 would be making the same charges to him as the previous adviser had. Im 
satisfied that this was discussed with and explained to Mr P. 1825 offered new terms which 
apparently had slightly lower charges, but Mr P didnt accept them. Mr P was always free to 
leave 1825 and decline their services if he wished to, but he chose not to do that until 2020.
Advice and fund monitoring
Mr P points to a lack of advice and fund monitoring. He highlights two funds he had invested 
in which he says had performed poorly. Mr P says that this underperformance should have 
been raised with him, he believes his previous advisers would have done this. He feels that 
1825s focus was to move him to its terms.
So, Mr P says, in effect, that 1825 ought to have provided more detailed and substantive 
advice. This should have included highlighting funds that were underperforming. Mr Ps 
position seems to be that if this more detailed and substantive advice had been given, he 
would have responded, engaged, and taken action.
I understand Mr Ps point, and I can accept that this may be true, but I must make an 
evidence-based decision. And the fact is that Mr P didnt engage with 1825 for long periods 
despite its invitations. There were multiple offers of meetings which werent accepted. So, 
given Mr P didnt engage with 1825, I dont think that I can reasonably conclude that he 
probably would have engaged if he had received more substantive advice. I dont think the 
fact of his non-engagement can be easily overlooked. I think that what Mr P actually did is 
the best and most reliable evidence, as opposed to what he may have done in the past or 
what he may have done in different circumstances. And I also think that its likely that issues 
like fund performance would have been topics for discussion at the review meetings that 
were offered (but not accepted).
Overall, given the clear pattern of non-engagement by Mr P, Im not satisfied that more 
substantive advice from 1825, or any greater efforts by it to engage with him would have 
made any difference. I think its more likely than not that Mr P wouldnt have engaged any 
sooner than he did even if 1825 had done more.
1825 could have terminated the agreement sooner given the lack of engagement by Mr P
Mr P says that 1825 could or should have terminated the agreement given his lack of 
engagement. Ive considered what hes said, but I dont agree. I can accept that there may 
be situations where an adviser firm may know that its services are no longer required, and 
this could lead to it terminating its agreement or stopping its charges. But I dont think that 
was the situation here. 1825 was providing its reviews and giving Mr P the opportunity to 
make contact if he had questions or wanted more detailed advice. Although Mr P was a lay 
person in respect of investment advice, its also true that 1825 knew that he was a 
professional person with a substantial SIPP investment. I think it could reasonably expect 
that Mr P would make contact if he wished to and make known any concerns he had. I dont 
think Mr Ps non-engagement through 2018/2019 alone should have caused 1825 to decide 
to end the agreement or stop its charges before Mr P took that step himself. That was 
something he was always free to do.
Conclusion
I agree with the investigator and with his reasoning. I dont uphold this complaint. Im sorry 
that Mr P feels he was let down by 1825 and that it didnt provide the level of service he 
expected or was used to from his previous adviser. However, Im not satisfied that it would 
be fair or reasonable to uphold the complaint. Im satisfied that it was entitled to make the 
charges that it did. 1825 appears to have met the agreed terms including providing reviews. 
Im also satisfied that it gave Mr P ample opportunity to get more extensive advice from it if 
that is what he wanted. Mr P didnt engage with it and that, in my view, is the critical issue. 1825 had no authority to make any changes to the SIPP without Mr Ps authority and input. 
Im satisfied that Mr P knew and understood that.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or make any award. 1825 offered £150 for its delay in dealing 
with the complaint and that seems fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman