DRN-3320622
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr W bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Hitachi, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under 
the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr W alleges that he was misled into believing that the 
panels would be self-funding, which he says they arent.
Mr Ws complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr W, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a ten-
year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the 
panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. 
Hitachi responded to say that the solar panels would be self-funding over the ten-year term 
of the loan  based on the evidence of the electricity generated, feed-in tariff payments 
received and the likely energy savings that would be realised. So, there was no 
misrepresentation, and even if there was there would be no redress due to Mr W.
I issued a provisional decision saying I thought the documents provided to Mr W at the time 
of sale clearly set out the basic cost of the system alongside the estimated benefits  and 
confirmed that the system would pay for itself within 10 years. And that the evidence from 
FIT statements and energy bills provided by Mr W showed that over ten years of the loan the 
benefits of the system (in FIT payments and energy savings) would exceed what he pays for 
the system. As such I was not planning to uphold the complaint. 
Mr Ws representative responded to say that Mr W was told the system would pay for itself 
on a month to month basis right from the start. They said that the benefit received so far 
averages £60.03 per month, which leaves a shortfall against the £71.35 monthly loan 
repayment, and an overall shortfall of £1,358.40 over the term of the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The documents provided to Mr W at the time of sale clearly set out the basic cost of the 
system alongside the estimated benefits  and confirmed that the system would pay for itself 
within 10 years. 
Mr W has alleged that the system will not be self-funding in that time. However, the evidence 
he has provided, including energy bills and feed-in tariff (FIT statements) show benefits that 
over ten years will exceed the cost of the solar panel system (including the interest payable 
on the loan if it runs to its full term). So, saying that the system would be self-funding over 
the term of the loan was not a misrepresentation.
Hitachi has calculated that the first-year benefit of the system, from FIT payments and 
savings through using some of the electricity generated, were £779.35. This is slightly less 
than the annual loan repayments of £856.20 and the initial estimates Mr W was given at the 
time of sale. So, I can understand why Mr W may feel he has been misled. 
But over time, the FIT unit rate paid to Mr W will increase in line with inflation. The cost of 
electricity is likely to increase as well. So, with each year the annual benefits of the solar 
panels will increase while the annual loan repayment will stay the same and then stop when 
the loan is paid off. The benefits will then continue after the loan is paid off.
Hitachi has calculated that at the end of the fifth year Mr W will have paid a total of £195 
more than the benefit he would receive. But by the end of the eight-year Mr W wouldve 
made that money back and the total benefits will have exceeded the total cost of the loan 
(even though at that point the loan may still be running, which means hed be in profit 
overall). 
Hitachi has calculated this using the approach that I would direct it to use if I was upholding 
this complaint. As such, even if I was to uphold this complaint it would not result in any 
compensation being paid to Mr W. This is because the solar panels are self-funding over the 
term of the loan. 
Ive thought about what Mr Ws representative has said, but this does not change my 
decision. They have basically multiplied the average monthly first year benefit by the number 
of loan repayments over the term of the loan. But this does not account for the FIT payments 
increasing in line with inflation (which is guaranteed to happen for the 20-year FIT payment 
period). Nor does it account for the likely increase in the price of electricity over the years 
(the higher the price the more Mr W will save for each unit of electricity he uses from the 
solar panels). Therefore, Mr Ws representative underestimates the benefits of the solar 
panels over the loan term. 
The representative says Mr W expected the monthly benefit from the solar panels to exceed 
the loan cost on a monthly basis right from the start. Im not convinced he was told that given 
FIT payments are made quarterly in arrears and the solar panels dont produce electricity 
consistently throughout the year. So, it is highly unlikely that on a month to month basis 
Mr W would not be out of pocket. 
I think the quote suggests that the benefits in the first year would exceed the first years loan 
repayment. That didnt turn out to be the case. However, I dont think it would be appropriate 
for any compensation to be paid to Mr W when:
The total shortfall is likely to be less than £200 over the first five years. 
After five years, the benefits will exceed the costs on an annual basis such that Mr W 
will receive that shortfall back over the next few years.
Mr W will continue to receive an income through FIT payments for a total of 20 years.
Mr W will receive the benefit of energy savings for the remaining life of the solar 
panels, which overall could be 25 years or more. 
Having considered the evidence available, Im satisfied that over the ten-year term of the 
loan the solar panels will be self-funding  in that their benefits through FIT payments and 
savings through using some of the electricity generated will exceed what Mr W pays for 
them, even if the loan runs to its full term. While Mr W may be slightly out of pocket in the early years of the loan, I dont think it would be appropriate for any compensation to be paid 
to him, given the overall benefits hell receive during the term of the loan.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman