DRN-2733334
The complaint
Mr N complains that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA rejected his claim for a refund under its 
buyer protection policy.
What happened
In 2019 Mr N bought a mobile office unit advertised on eBay. (In his complaint he described 
it as a converted shipping container, but it does not appear to be a shipping container and 
was not advertised as one.) He paid £2,000 for the unit, and also paid a shipping fee of 
£350. He paid using his PayPal account.
When the unit was delivered, Mr N asked for a refund under PayPals buyer protection 
policy, on the ground that it was significantly not as described. He said the seller had 
described the unit as completely renovated  newly and freshly painted and decorated  
never been used. But when it arrived it was in very poor condition, with rust, flaky paint, and 
obvious wear. He provided photos and a video to show this. He also said that the advert had 
described the unit as 21 feet long, but in fact it was only 20 feet and six and a half inches.
PayPal opened a dispute, and asked Mr N for further evidence. Specifically, it wanted a 
document written by an independent third party, detailing the extent of the damage, or 
clearly explaining how the unit differed from what had been advertised. Mr N provided some 
quotes from tradesmen about how much it would cost to fix the damage, but PayPal did not 
accept these, because none of them actually described the damage in sufficient detail, nor 
did they did appear to have been the result of a personal inspection by the tradesmen 
concerned. Accordingly, PayPal rejected Mr Ns claim, on the ground that he had failed to 
comply with the terms of its buyer protection policy, which requires buyers to co-operate with 
PayPals requests.
Mr N complained about that decision. He said he had provided enough evidence to prove his 
case, and that PayPal had not been clear about what more it wanted him to provide. He also 
said that PayPal had closed his dispute too early, which PayPal denied. Mr N referred this 
complaint to our Service. PayPal insisted it had followed its policy, and had rejected Mr Ns 
complaint in line with the policy.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He thought that although the tradesmens quotes did 
not describe in detail how the unit differed from what was advertised, they did state what 
remedial work needed doing. He concluded that PayPal had not given this evidence its due 
weight, and that Mr N had provided enough proof that the unit was significantly not as 
described. He recommended that PayPal refund Mr N the cost of the item and the delivery 
cost, in line with its buyer protection policy.
PayPal did not accept that opinion. It reiterated that the policy required a higher standard of 
evidence than that which Mr N had provided. But it also argued that Mr Ns evidence did not 
support his claim that the unit was significantly not as described. It said that the unit had 
merely failed to meet his expectations, which was a situation specifically referred to in the 
policy as an example of something which is not enough to sustain a claim. It asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I do not think that the difference between the 21 feet length advertised and the actual length 
is significant, and I have disregarded that. I also disregard the fact that it is not a shipping 
container, since the advert did not call it one. My decision is based only on the difference 
between the advertised condition and the actual condition of the unit.
PayPals buyer protection policy only recognises two grounds as being valid grounds for 
upholding a claim. These are that a purchased item was not received (which is not the case 
here), or the item was significantly not as described. Paragraph 8 of the policy elaborates on 
the meaning of the latter ground. The item must be materially different from the last 
description of it that was given by the seller before it was paid for.
Paragraph 8 goes on to give a non-exhaustive list of examples of what will meet that test. 
The second item on the list reads: The condition of your purchase was misrepresented. For 
instance, the listing for an item said new and the item was used.
There is then a second list of examples of things that do not meet the test. Two of those 
examples are as follows:
Your purchase was correctly described but did not meet your expectations.
The item that you purchased has minor scratches and was listed as used condition.
In its response to the investigators opinion, PayPal wrote:
Your findings advised that you think the unit doesnt look completely renovated or 
something thats never been used. The item was not sold as new but secondhand, 
meaning its been used. Also what you think a renovation is can be defined yet again 
by expectation. It would seem unfair and unreasonable that your services make a 
decision based on [Mr Ns] expectations.
Although the unit was indeed sold second-hand, I dont think it is reasonable to say that this 
overrides the advertisements description as completely renovated  newly and freshly 
painted and decorated  never been used, or that it means that never been used is a 
mere sales puff rather than a representation of fact on which the buyer is entitled to rely.
I have seen the photos and the video, and I think they show quite clearly that the unit was 
not in the condition advertised. Externally, there are large patches where the paint is flaky 
and has come off, exposing rust. Inside, the door handle is broken, and the interior does not 
look freshly painted but worn and appears to have mould spots. The floor covering is ill-fitting 
and shows signs of damage. The unit is generally in poor condition. I find that the sellers 
claim that the unit had been newly painted and decorated is not credible.
Paragraph 6 of the buyer protection policy says that a buyer who makes a claim under the 
policy must:
(i) provide documentary evidence (at your own expense, unless PayPal agrees 
otherwise) to support your position (including, without limitation, proof of delivery, 
receipts, third party evaluations and police reports); and (ii) take any other action 
that PayPal specifies. If you refuse to comply with PayPals requests, PayPal may make a final decision in favour of the other party.
Paragraph 5d requires the buyer to respond to PayPals request in a timely manner. 
Paragraph 4 sets out the essential conditions which must be met for a buyer to qualify for a 
refund, one of which is that the buyer must have complied with paragraph 5. PayPal argues 
that this condition was not met, because Mr N failed to provide the third party evidence 
PayPal had asked for within the period it had required, which was ten days from the date of 
its request.
PayPal told Mr N the following:
You need to get a document (such as an estimate or invoice) from an unbiased 
third party, such as a dealer, repair shop, appraiser or another individual or 
organisation that is qualified in the area of the item in question (other than you).
This document should detail the extent of the damage or clearly explain how the 
item received significantly differs from the item advertised.
I agree that the quotes Mr N provided did not detail the extent of the damage, or clearly 
explain how the unit differed from what was advertised. It follows that I cant agree that 
PayPal closed Mr Ns dispute prematurely, because the ten day deadline had expired. And 
I would normally conclude from this that Mr N had failed to comply with PayPals buyer 
protection policy, and that PayPal followed its policy and rejected his claim in accordance 
with it. That in turn would mean I would not uphold this complaint.
However, I have still decided to uphold this complaint, notwithstanding what paragraph 6 
says, as an exceptional course. That is because although the third party quotes which Mr N 
provided fell somewhat short of what he had been asked to provide, I still think that there 
was sufficient evidence overall  based on the photos and video I have described, and the 
clear and unequivocal terms of the advert  to demonstrate that the item supplied fell well 
short of what the seller had advertised. To be clear, I mean that the unit supplied was 
significantly not as described, and not merely something which fell short of Mr Ns 
expectations but was correctly described.
I have therefore concluded that PayPal applied paragraph 6 of its policy too inflexibly in this 
instance. It was not necessary to insist on Mr N providing a third party document setting out 
the units shortcomings in detail; rather, I think it was superfluous.
I am reinforced in this conclusion by two matters. Firstly, because the third parties quotes 
and emails did support Mr Ns case to some extent (notwithstanding that they were not 
detailed). And secondly, because Principle 6 of the FCAs Principles of Business states A 
firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. I am not 
persuaded that insisting on extra evidence after sufficient evidence had already been 
provided complied with that principle, whatever the policy says.
Putting things right
I agree with our investigator that fair compensation in this case would be to order PayPal to 
refund Mr N the cost of the unit and the delivery charge, which add up to £2,350. That is 
because that is what the compensation would normally be under the buyer protection policy 
(see paragraph 6b). I will also award simple interest on that amount at 8% a year, from the 
date on which PayPal rejected his claim. This is what our Service would typically award, and 
I see no reason not to do so in this instance.
The buyer protection  policy also requires (in paragraph 6a) the buyer to return the defective 
goods to (at PayPals choice) the seller, to PayPal, or to a third party, and to provide proof of delivery to the correct address. I think it is fair and reasonable to hold Mr N to that 
requirement. That will be at his own expense.
I dont have the power to order Mr N to do anything, but I can make his return of the unit, and 
providing proof of delivery, conditions which must be met before PayPal has to refund him. 
Proof of delivery means proof as defined in paragraph 6a of the policy, which requires:
online documentation from a postal company that includes all of the following:
1. A status of delivered (or equivalent) and the date of delivery.
2. The recipients address, showing at least the city/county or postcode.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA to:
tell Mr N where to return the unit, within 14 days of the date on which we notify 
PayPal that Mr N has accepted this decision, and
pay Mr N £2,350, together with simple interest on that amount at eight per cent a 
year from 12 September 2019 to the date of settlement, within 28 days of the date on 
which Mr N provides PayPal with evidence that he has delivered the unit to the 
address PayPal gave him.
(If PayPal considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr N how much its taken off. It should also give Mr N a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Mr N should refer back to PayPal if he is unsure of the approach it has taken, and both 
parties should contact HMRC if they want to know more about the tax treatment of this 
portion of the compensation.)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman