DRN-4141238
The complaint
Ms B complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (Hargreaves) failed 
to make her aware of a deadline to avoid tax on the benefits from her late fathers pension 
plan. And then made the decision to pay benefits too late for the deadline to be met. She 
would like compensation for the tax costs incurred. 
What happened
Ms Bs father (Mr B) died in October 2019. He had a Self-Invested Personal Pension Plan 
(SIPP) with Hargreaves and death benefits could be paid free of tax before 28 October 2021. 
If paid later, they would be subject to tax at the beneficiarys marginal income tax rate. Mr B 
hadnt completed a nomination of beneficiary and the payment of the death benefits was at 
the discretion of the SIPP Trustees  a sister company of Hargreaves. 
Hargreaves liaised with the executor of Mr Bs estate and the appointed solicitor and 
confirmed the tax deadline on 20 December 2019. It requested a copy of the Will and details 
of any potential beneficiaries such as a spouse and children. The solicitor provided this 
information on 3 March 2020. Ms B says the executor was her fathers estranged wife and 
matters became contested. Ms B appointed her own solicitor, who wrote to Hargreaves in 
August 2020 advising that her father and his wife had been estranged pending divorce at the 
time of his death. 
Hargreaves says the Trustees decided the input of Mr Bs children was necessary. So, it 
wrote to the estates solicitor on 23 October 2020 asking it to contact the children and 
request they write to Hargreaves to advise how they thought the benefits should be paid. 
Reminder letters were sent on 21 January 2021, and 19 March 2021, after which the solicitor 
said it had asked Ms B and her brother to contact Hargreaves. It sent further reminders to 
the solicitor on 14 June and 5 August 2021 and requested the childrens addresses. All 
these letters noted the tax deadline applying. 
Ms B wrote to Hargreaves on 20 August 2021 referring to 14 June 2021 letter sent to the 
solicitor. She set out some background about the family situation and said:
My brother and I feel strongly that our father would have wished the fund to be 
divided equally between us 
Hargreaves emailed the estate solicitor saying it was waiting to hear from Ms Bs brother in 
order to proceed. On 24 September 2021 the solicitor confirmed it had requested her brother 
get in touch and provided his address. Hargreaves wrote to him on 29 September 2021, 
asking him to reply by 7 October, but Ms B says he didnt receive this until 5 October 2021. It 
sent a reminder dated 8 October 2021, also asking him to reply by 7 October 2021. He 
replied on 15 October 2021, apologising for the delay, and Hargreaves says it received this 
on 20 October 2021. He said the benefits should be split equally between him and his sister. 
The Trustees decided that the benefits should be split 50% to Mr Bs widow and 25% each 
to Ms B and her brother. It wrote to Ms B on 20 October 2021 confirming this and enclosing 
forms to be completed by her and her brother and returned as soon as possible, so that 
payment could be made before 28 October 2021. The letter was sent by signed for delivery.
Ms B says she didnt receive the letter as she was out when delivery was attempted. 
Unaware that it was from Hargreaves and of its importance she arranged for redelivery and 
didnt receive it until 29 October 2021. Hargreaves sent a reminder dated 26 October 2021, 
but Ms B says the envelope was franked 27 October, so it wasnt received until after the 
deadline had passed. Ms B says missing the deadline resulted in over £46,000 of income tax 
being payable on her benefits. 
Ms B complained to Hargreaves, saying it hadnt made her aware of the tax deadline and its 
consequences. She said the decision had been made so close to the deadline she had no 
chance to meet it. Hargreaves said it wasnt responsible for the tax costs that had been 
incurred. It said significant delays had been caused by third parties. It said it had repeatedly 
requested that the estates solicitor ask Ms B and her brother to get in touch and that Ms B 
had referred to one of these letters which noted the deadline. It said it had no authority to 
disclose information to her solicitor as it wasnt acting for the estate. But it agreed that some 
of its service could have been better and offered Ms B £200 as an apology for this. 
Ms B didnt accept the offer and referred her complaint to our service. She said the form sent 
to her had to be returned by post and she had no practical opportunity to return it in time. 
She said Hargreaves had made no other attempt to contact her about the deadline. She said 
it was blaming the estates solicitors for not passing on information requests, but as the 
estate solicitor wasnt acting for her it should have liaised with her. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but she didnt uphold it.
Our investigator said Hargreaves role was that of administrator, with the decision about how 
benefits should be distributed lying with the Trustees. She thought the tax deadline had been 
communicated clearly and outstanding information had been chased repeatedly. She said 
Hargreaves had advised it couldnt ask Ms B or her solicitor for information directly about 
other potential beneficiaries, as she hadnt been confirmed as a beneficiary. So, it was 
reasonable that it liaised with the solicitor representing the estate. She said as the letter Ms 
B had referred to in writing to Hargreaves referred to the tax deadline it was reasonable to 
say she would have been aware of it from then.
Our investigator said it wasnt Hargreaves responsibility to avoid tax as this applied to the 
beneficiaries not to it. She said Hargreaves hadnt made the decision about whether to wait 
for a response from Ms Bs brother or not as this was the Trustees decision. She said she 
couldnt say why the estates solicitor took the time it did to respond to queries, or why the 
Trustees decided to wait as long as they did before making a decision. She said these 
matters could be raised as separate complaints with those Firms directly.   
Ms B didnt agree. She said it was clear that not all of all Hargreaves correspondence was 
reaching them. She said whilst it said it couldnt contact her or her brother directly that is 
what it had done when it wrote to her brother in September 2021. She asked why it hadnt 
contacted her at the same time.
Our investigator said Hargreaves had only requested the same information from Ms Bs 
brother that she had already provided in August 2021. And it could only liaise with the 
estates solicitor about information being outstanding. She said her opinion hadnt changed.
As Ms B doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
My provisional decision I issued my provision decision on 21 April 2023; I explained the reasons why I was planning 
to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning to 
uphold the complaint. 
I thought about what has happened here carefully. The main aspect of Ms Bs complaint is 
whether there was adequate time for her to respond to Hargreaves after the Trustees the 
decision about who would receive the benefits. This complaint isnt about the actions of the 
Trustees. So, Im not considering the merits of their decision in any way and will only 
comment indirectly on their actions in so far as they may have impacted Hargreaves 
administration of the arrangement. 
However, I note from Hargreaves Terms and Conditions (T&Cs) under section D1 - 
scheme structure that:  
HLAM is the Scheme Administrator and will administer the SIPP in accordance with 
the Scheme Rules. HLPT is the trustee of the SIPP. It holds all cash and investments 
in SIPP Accounts on trust, and acts solely on the instructions of the Scheme 
Administrator.
Hargreaves file notes suggest that it controlled the timing and agenda of the Trustees 
meeting. And at this stage I have seen no evidence of any service level agreement in terms 
of administrative timeframes or procedures. But on the basis of the T&Cs noted above I think 
it is reasonable to conclude that Hargreaves was in control of the process in terms of 
timeframes. 
In rejecting Ms Bs complaint Hargreaves focuses on the delays caused by others and its 
repeated attempts to obtain information from the estates solicitors and the executor. These 
delays werent caused by Ms B and Hargreaves was aware of the dispute. I think in these 
circumstances it should have attempted to contact Ms B and her brother directly sooner than 
it did. Had it done so there might have been more time to communicate the decision to Ms B. 
Whether or not it was the Trustees or Hargreaves who decided to hold the Trustees meeting 
close to the two-year deadline, this decision was presumably made in the expectation that 
the necessary administration requirements arising from the decision could have been dealt 
with before the deadline passed. So, I think it was incumbent on Hargreaves to adopt 
appropriate administrative procedures that gave a realistic chance of the deadline being met, 
given there were only five working days after the Trustees meeting. This is particularly so as 
Hargreaves was requesting Ms B return documents by post. At this stage I dont think that 
happened and that there were administrative failings that had significant financial 
consequences for Ms B.
I think this for the following reasons:
1. Hargreaves knew that there were potential issues in Ms Bs fathers marriage by 3 
March 2020, so at an early stage. Because the information form returned to it by the 
estates solicitor contained the following question which had been answered, No:
Were the deceased and their spouse/civil partner living together at the date of 
death?2. Both Hargreaves and the Trustees knew the matter was contested by August 
/September 2020 when it received correspondence from Ms Bs own solicitor. This 
prompted the attempts to seek Ms B and her brothers opinion by asking the estate 
solicitor to contact them. 
3. Despite knowledge of the dispute and the difficulty it was having obtaining 
information from the executor (and potential beneficiary) and the estates solicitor, it 
didnt seek to reach out directly to Ms B and her brother until nearly a year after it 
was aware the matter was contested. When it requested Ms B and her brothers 
addresses from the estate solicitor in June 2021. 
4. Im not persuaded that Hargreaves could only communicate with and accept 
information from the representatives of the estate. The pension benefits werent in 
the estate. Many of its letters requesting information stated:
The HL SIPP is held under discretionary trust which means the benefits are 
usually payable outside of the estate.
And, in any case, having failed to obtain information from the estate it eventually 
contacted Ms Bs brother directly. So, it isnt clear to me why Hargreaves felt it 
couldnt acknowledge Ms Bs letter to it and confirm that the Trustees wanted to 
consider the distribution of benefits before the tax deadline. And to ask her if her 
brother was aware of the matter and its importance. Ms Bs own letter had directly 
referred to her brother. Hargreaves letter to her confirming the Trustees decision and 
its requirements directly refers to her brother and encloses documents in respect of 
his share of the benefits, so it seems confidentiality wasnt a consideration.
5. In the circumstances I think waiting to as near the deadline as possible before 
making the decision was reasonable. Provided of course, that all reasonable steps 
had been taken to obtain the information and there was adequate time to deal with 
the administrative requirements resulting from that decision.  
6. I dont agree that Hargreaves had no responsibility in respect of the tax deadline. 
There would be no need to set the Trustee meeting before the deadline if there was 
no responsibility here. The evidence suggests there was considerable awareness of 
the deadline and the need to act before it. I think the Trustees would have a duty of 
care to the beneficiaries in respect of this. And the Trustees must have reasonably 
expected that once the decision had been made on 20 October 2021, there would be 
a realistic prospect of the matter being concluded before the tax deadline.  
7. There were just five working days before the deadline after Hargreaves wrote to 
confirm the decision. To which it required documents to be returned by post. Given 
the short time frame I dont think just sending a letter and form by post, even sent by 
recorded or next day delivery was adequate in the circumstances. Ms B didnt know 
correspondence from Hargreaves was likely. Signed for mail requires someone to be 
present to take delivery, which is by no means certain with a residential address. And 
unfortunately, Ms B wasnt at home. Hargreaves could have checked whether 
delivery had been made and may have done so. If it did, it left following up far too 
late. And as Ms B has said that the reminder letter wasnt actually posted until the 
day of the deadline, which clearly isnt reasonable. 
8. The letter sent to Ms B asked her to complete a form and provide evidence of her 
identity and confirmation of her bank details in case this couldnt be checked 
electronically. Bank details were required in the form of original postal bank 
statement or if a branch printed statement, this must be stamped by the branch. Statements from internet banks were not acceptable. Not everyone receives paper 
bank statements or uses banks with a physical presence in the high street. So, this 
information might not have been available to allow a reply in time even if the letter 
had been received at the first attempt. And Hargreaves letter required Ms B to also 
liaise with her brother to provide the same information before the deadline.
9. Unfortunately, it seems Ms B hadnt provided her telephone number or email address 
when she wrote to Hargreaves. But it did have her solicitors contact details. And it 
had received Ms Bs brother letter which gave his telephone number and email 
address, and it appears no attempt was made to contact him either. So, in the 
circumstances I think calls could have been made and or emails sent to advise 
important and urgent correspondence was on the way or outstanding. Had this been 
done the problem may have been averted.  
Even if Hargreaves wasnt in complete control of the process, it was clearly in charge of 
administration. I think it is fair and reasonable that it should have adopted what 
administrative requirements were required due to the short timeframes involved here. These 
werent onerous or excessive. Calling or emailing her solicitor and/or her brother or indeed 
the estates solicitor about the benefit decision could have easily averted very serious tax 
consequences suffered. As it doesnt appear that happened, at this stage I dont think Ms B 
has been treated fairly and I think the complaint should be upheld.
Putting things right
Had Hargreaves dealt with this death claim more efficiently I think the tax charge could have 
been avoided. So, I think it is fair that it should compensate Ms B for the tax costs incurred.
Hargreaves should establish the full income tax liability incurred on Ms Bs share of the 
benefits. It may require tax records from her to do so. It should then pay this to her adding 
interest at 8% per year simple to the sum owing from the date it originally paid the benefits to 
Ms B until the date it makes settlement. 
I think Ms B has been caused distress and inconvenience by what has happened. 
Hargreaves has already offered £200 compensation for various service failings which Ms B 
hasnt accepted. I think its fair that this be increased by £100 to £300 in total.  
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wished me to 
consider.
Response to provisional decision
Ms B accepted my provisional decision.
Hargreaves said it disagreed with my provisional decision. It said it hadnt been able to liaise 
with any party other than the estates solicitors, whod been appointed by the Executors of 
Mr Bs estate. It said it had to rely on the solicitors to pass on details and information 
requests and only had authority to write to the solicitors and there was little more it could 
have done.
Hargreaves said it had made the estate solicitor aware of the deadline on five occasions and 
once it had received the beneficiaries details it made them aware of this three times on 11 
June, 8 October, and 26 October 2021. And, but for delays caused by the solicitors there 
would have been more time for the beneficiaries to respond and more time for the Trustees 
to review the situation. And it wasnt fair nor reasonable to overlook this and that it:cannot be held solely liable for the tax charges that the beneficiaries have incurred.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint.
Ive thought about Hargreaves response to my provisional decision carefully. What 
happened here is very unfortunate and I accept the circumstances were difficult. But the 
benefits in the late Mr Bs SIPP werent part of the estate and the payment of those benefits 
wasnt at the discretion of the estate or its representatives, that was Hargreaves 
responsibility. And whilst the actions of others clearly caused delays, I think its errors directly 
caused the losses for Ms B. 
Hargreaves hasnt provided any explanation of why it felt it could only liaise with the estates 
solicitor for such a long time when it wasnt receiving the information it required. I think it had 
a responsibility to try to resolve the issue. Something it clearly concluded itself when it finally 
did seek to contact the beneficiaries directly. But I dont think it did this soon enough, and 
once it did it didnt follow up as I think it reasonably should have done.  It knew that the 
executor and estate solicitor were being uncooperative and that the estate was disputed. But 
it allowed the situation to continue for many, many months before seeking contact details for 
Ms B. 
And, whilst it waited for Ms B and her brother to get in touch via requests to the estate 
solicitor it already had the means to contact Ms B as her own solicitor had written to it more 
than a year before the tax deadline. So, it could have reached out to her as soon as its initial 
enquiries through the estate solicitor were unsuccessful. And it could have responded to Ms 
Bs letter to it of 20 August 2021 to open a clear line of communication with her. Something I 
think the contested circumstances reasonably required, but it didnt. I think it is very likely 
that reaching out to her sooner or responding to her letter would have changed the outcome 
here. 
But, because of these failings Ms B didnt know what was happening. And having deferred 
the decision on the benefits until it did, just five working days before the tax deadline, 
Hargreaves simply didnt allow adequate time for the procedures required to be completed, 
even if she had received its letter at the first delivery attempt. And that wasnt fair to Ms B 
regardless of any issues caused by third parties before then.
Had Hargreaves handled things differently I think the tax costs suffered by Ms B could have 
been avoided, so its fair that she is re-imbursed for these.
Putting things right
Hargreaves should establish the full income tax liability incurred on Ms Bs share of the 
benefits. It will require tax records from her to do so, which she has provided to our service. 
It should then pay this to her adding interest at 8% per year simple to the sum owing from 
the date it originally paid the benefits to Ms B until the date it makes settlement. 
Ms B has been caused distress and inconvenience by what has happened. Hargreaves 
should increase the compensation it has already offered of £200 to £300 in respect of this.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint against Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited.
I direct Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited to calculate the full income tax 
liability incurred by Ms B as a result of the benefits becoming subject to income tax. It should 
pay this with 8% per year simple added from the date it originally paid the benefits to Ms B to 
the date it makes settlement.
I direct Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited to pay Ms B £300 compensation 
in respect of the distress and inconvenience she has been caused.
If Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms B how much 
its taken off. It should also give a certificate showing this if Ms B asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman