DRN-2602671
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Accord Mortgages Limited didnt allow them to change their 
consent to let mortgage to an interest only basis.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H moved to their current property and wanted to let their previous property on 
which they had a residential mortgage with Accord. They applied and Accord consented to 
them letting the property.
Mr and Mrs H say they became concerned in April 2020 about the possibility they may not 
be able to maintain both mortgages due to the onset of the covid-19 pandemic  how this 
may affect their tenant and their own employment. So, they emailed Accord in April 2020 to 
ask to change their payments to interest only. Accord responded to say theyd need to call to 
discuss it. 
In May 2020 Mr H called Accord to ask if they could move to a buy-to-let mortgage on an 
interest only basis. Accord told Mr H its usual criteria would apply and that was explained on 
its website. It said he should check the website and, if he thought they met Accords criteria, 
they should call back for a full assessment. Accord also said it could offer a three-month 
payment holiday if Mr and Mrs H were being impacted by the covid-19 pandemic.
Mr H thought Accord should do more to help in the circumstances  he thought Accord 
should be more flexible with its regular criteria because of the pandemic. So, he complained 
about that to Accord during the call. He also said he was unhappy about the amount of time 
hed spent on the phone with Accord only to be referred back to its website. 
Accord wrote to Mr and Mrs H on 6 May 2020 with its final response letter. It didnt uphold 
their complaint, saying it hadnt acted unfairly. It said Mr and Mrs H agreed to its terms and 
conditions when applying for an authorised let and them no longer living at the property 
meant they didnt qualify for Accords interest only criteria. Accord also reiterated that Mr and 
Mrs H can apply for a three-month payment holiday. Dissatisfied with Accords response Mr 
and Mrs H asked us to look into their complaint.
During our investigation, Accord explained it had to look at various options to help customers 
as the pandemic continued. And from the 1 November 2020 it did offer temporary interest 
only for borrowers that had a change in their circumstances which affected affordability. But 
those borrowers could only have a temporary interest only solution for six months, 
reviewable every three months.
Our investigator outlined the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) guidance that applied to 
how lenders should support borrowers who were experiencing or were likely to experience 
financial difficulty as a result of the covid-19 pandemic. He explained:
The FCA guidance from March 2020, required lenders, in most cases, to:
Offer three-month payment holidays (later called a payment deferral), 
without a fee, a detailed application or recording on a credit file, to 
customers whose ability to pay has been affected by coronavirus; and
Not repossess any property, and not progress any existing 
repossession proceedings.
This FCA guidance builds on Principle 6 (A firm must pay due regard to the interests 
of its customers and treat them fairly) and MCOB 2.5A.1R (A firm must act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its customer) of the 
FCA Handbook.
Our investigator thought Accord were inflexible and could have offered Mr and Mrs H a 
short-term solution that was outside his original mortgage conditions. And, in not doing so, 
he thought Accord didnt treat Mr and Mrs H fairly. He said Accord caused Mr and Mrs H 
additional avoidable worry and upset, but hed seen nothing to suggest Mr and Mrs H had 
lost out financially. So, our investigator said Accord should pay Mr and Mrs H £75 for the 
trouble and upset they caused.
Accord didnt agree and said it acted in line with the FCAs guidance. It said Mr and Mrs H 
werent affected by the pandemic at the time of making their enquiry. Instead they were 
requesting help with a possible issue they may have with their tenant finding it difficult to 
make rental payments. So, they were not eligible for a special arrangement. It also said a 
temporary move to interest only wasnt available to any of its customers at that time.
Mr and Mrs H also didnt agree. They said they dont think Accord were flexible and didnt 
understand the position it left them in. They explained that they heard from their tenant in 
March 2021 that theyll not be able to rent the property next year and that the replacement 
tenant currently pays less in rent. So, they are having to supplement their mortgage 
payments with their salaries.
As neither party agreed with the findings of our investigator Mr and Mrs Hs complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision. I wrote to both parties with my provisional decision 
on 7 December 2021 allowing both parties four weeks to respond. Accord responded but 
made no further comments. Mr and Mrs H didnt respond. Ill now set out my final decision 
below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision of 7 December 2021, I wrote:
To decide Mr and Mrs Hs complaint Ive thought about whether Accord responded 
fairly to their request for a switch to interest only in April 2020. Ive thought about Mr 
and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time; the broader circumstances in terms of the 
covid-19 pandemic; and the FCA guidance at the time designed to help lenders deal 
fairly with borrowers experiencing or expecting to experience financial difficulties as a 
result of the pandemic. 
The FCA guidance  as our investigator outlined  had been published by the time 
Mr and Mrs H discussed the matter with accord in May 2020. Its main 
recommendations for help - and the help that was taken-up by a substantial number 
of borrowers looking for support  was a payment holiday for three months, later 
known as deferred payments. But the guidance did expect lenders to tailor support to its borrowers individual needs. That could include other ways to temporarily 
reduce the payments of the borrower.
Mr and Mrs Hs needs at the time werent specific as they hadnt actually been 
affected by the pandemic. They wanted to change to interest only or be moved to a 
buy-to-let mortgage on an interest only basis. Ive seen nothing to suggest that they 
were looking for that to happen on a temporary basis. So, I think it was reasonable 
for Accord to look to apply its general criteria to that situation, rather than simply 
agree to that request because of the pandemic.
Ive listened to the call in May where Mr H called to ask for help. He explained that he 
felt the chances of his tenant defaulting were high and said that he and Mrs H were 
paying part of the mortgage from their own salaries. Accord said it could offer a 
three-month payment holiday. Mr H declined that and asked about changing to buy-
to-let or interest only. After Accords adviser had spoken to various teams, Mr H was 
told that Accord would consider his request providing he had an acceptable 
repayment strategy. Accord told him his next steps should be to check its website for 
details of its acceptable repayment strategies and  if his plans met one of them  he 
should call its sales team to discuss the matter further.
Mr H then raised a complaint saying Accord wasnt helping him any more than it 
ordinarily would and that it should do more because of covid. Mr Hs primary 
complaint was that Accord wouldnt change his mortgage to interest only and he also 
mentioned that he was unhappy that hed been on the phone so long and hadnt 
made any progress. About that time he said hed been on the call for just over an 
hour.
Having listened to the call, I havent found that Accord declined Mr and Mrs Hs 
request. Mr H may have known that their plans for repayment of the mortgage didnt 
meet Accords criteria for changing his mortgage to interest only. But I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Accord would have known that when it referred him to its 
website. So, I dont think Accord was acting unreasonably in doing so. Nor have I 
seen anything to suggest it wouldnt have explored other ways to help Mr and Mrs H 
had they made further enquiries. 
Following this the FCA released further guidance saying lenders may consider a 
second payment deferral for borrowers still facing challenges as a result of the 
pandemic. After that, it said lenders should consider tailored alternatives rather than 
a third period of deferred payments. It was about that time and in the light of that 
guidance that Accord says it relaxed its criteria for temporary switches to interest 
only. But I dont think Accord needed to do that in May 2020 as the option of a 
payment holiday was still open to Mr and Mrs H.
Ive thought about the service Mr H received during the telephone conversation in 
May 2020 as that is part of his complaint. Its clear that the person he initially spoke 
to discussed the matter with more than one other team and its reasonable to 
conclude that he was on hold for that time. Ive no reason to doubt that Mr H had 
been on the phone for just over an hour when he said he had  during the call  
though a significant amount of that time was him making the complaint.
I think it would have been reasonable for Mr H to assume it would take some time to 
make a call of that nature and the time taken increased because he decided he 
wanted to complain. Aside from that, I dont think the call was poorly handled and I 
dont think it warrants an award simply due to the time taken, whether Mr and Mrs H 
achieved their goal or not.Overall, I dont think Accord handled Mr and Mrs Hs request for support at that time 
unfairly and I dont think its customer service was particularly poor. So, I dont think it 
needs to take any action now or make any payment to Mr and Mrs H. I understand 
that, from March 2021, Mr and Mrs Hs rental income decreased because of a 
change in tenant. But I dont think that has any bearing on their request in May 2020 
and Ive not seen anything to suggest they couldnt have approached Accord in 
March 2021 if they were experiencing financial difficulty.
I have reviewed my provisional findings, but as neither party has asked me to consider any 
further submissions, Ive seen nothing to make me think I should change them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about Accord Mortgages 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman