DRN-4105518
The complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his account and took too long to return 
his funds.
What happened
Mr J had four accounts with Barclays. In September 2022, Barclays wrote to Mr J to say it 
had decided to close these accounts with immediate effect. It said that Mr J would need to 
attend his local branch with photo ID and proof of address before it could release the funds. 
Mr J did this  but was told that he couldnt access the funds at that time. Barclays said that 
it then gave approval to release the funds on 23 September 2022  but that because of a 
mistake it paid these funds to an incorrect account. Barclays says it located these funds on 
27 October 2022  and Mr J was able to access the account the next day. 
Barclays now says it should have given Mr J more notice of the closure and took too long to 
release the funds. Barclays has offered to pay Mr J £400 to reflect the trouble and upset it 
caused. Barclays has also offered to pay simple interest at a rate of 8% a year on the 
outstanding balance of £111,786.10 from 23 September 2022 until Mr J got the funds back 
on 27 October 2022.
Our investigator looked at what had happened  and concluded that Barclayss offer was 
fair.
Mr J didnt agree. He says he spent a lot of time dealing with things, and that it was also 
extremely stressful. He says he lost out on a mortgage application that had been agreed and 
a product fee paid. He also believes that it affected his work. He thinks £30,000 would better 
reflect the impact Barclayss actions had on him.
As the investigator couldnt resolve things informally, the complaint has been referred to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions that applied to Mr Js account said that Barclays could close an 
account by giving him at least two months notice. In some circumstances it could close the 
account immediately. In this case, Barclays closed the account immediately.
Weve asked Barclays about this. Barclays says that although it would still have closed the 
accounts, it should have given Mr J more notice. I appreciate that Mr J would like to know 
more. But where Barclays closes accounts, it doesnt need to give reasons  just as Mr J 
wouldnt have needed to give reasons if hed wanted to bank somewhere else. Nor would it 
be appropriate for me to tell Barclays to give Mr J its reasons. But looking at everything, I 
accept that Barclays could have closed the accounts had it given the correct notice.
It took some time before Mr J was able to withdraw the funds. Barclays accepts this was an 
error  and that Mr J should have been given access to the funds sooner. Barclays says it 
should have been able to release the funds to Mr J on 23 September 2022, but that because 
of an error, the funds werent located and released until 27 October 2022.
Ive therefore considered what would most likely have happened if things had happened as 
they should have. Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that Barclays would still 
ultimately have closed the account  even if it should have given Mr J more notice. So while 
I dont doubt that having to rearrange his finances was inconvenient, much of this 
inconvenience this would have happened in any event.
Im also satisfied that  in line with its legal and regulatory obligations  Barclays needed to 
carry out some further checks before Mr J could withdraw the remaining funds from his 
accounts. But once those checks were complete, Mr J would have had access to the funds.
With all this in mind Ive gone on to consider whether Barclayss offer is fair.
Because of Barclayss mistake, Mr J didnt get access to the funds when he should have 
done. Barclays has offered to pay Mr J simple interest to reflect the period between 23 
September 2022, when it completed its checks, and 27 October 2022, when Mr J got the 
funds back. As Im satisfied Barclays needed time to carry out these checks, I think thats fair 
in the circumstances of Mr Js complaint.
Barclays has also offered £400 to reflect the distress and inconvenience its actions caused. 
Mr J thinks he should get a lot more  in particular, he says he had to spend a lot of time 
sorting things out and so thinks Barclays should compensate him based on his companys 
daily turnover. He says hes spent 48 hours dealing with things, or six working days. Ive 
carefully considered this. But I dont accept this realistically reflects the impact Barclayss 
actions had on Mr J.
First, Mr J was working for a company. And so some of the losses hes mentioned are losses 
to his company, not to Mr J directly. I cannot compensate Mr J for that. And although Mr J 
says this took up 6 working days, many of the phone calls he made lasted 20 minutes or 
less; I dont accept that Mr Js daily turnover realistically reflects the impact Barclayss 
actions had on him. Finally, Ive found that some of what Barclays did was justified, and so 
Mr J would inevitably have spent some time sorting things out even if things happened as 
they should have: in particular, Barclays would still have closed Mr Js account and still 
needed to carry out further checks before Mr J could withdraw his funds.
Barclays agrees it should have returned the funds sooner, and I accept that this caused 
material distress and inconvenience. Mr J didnt get access for funds for a month  and 
during this period he was trying to apply for a mortgage and had difficulties proving his 
income. In all the circumstances, Im satisfied that £400 fairly reflects the impact Barclayss 
actions had on Mr J.
Ive considered Mr Js further comments. But these dont change my conclusions. Mr J has 
mentioned his mortgage application. At the time Barclays closed Mr Js accounts, Mr J was 
in the process of applying for a mortgage, also with Barclays. This application couldnt 
proceed. I dont doubt Mr J found this frustrating. I note Barclays has separately refunded 
the £999 mortgage application fee plus £75 to reflect the delay in doing so. But for the 
reasons Ive already explained, I cant say Barclays acted wrongly in closing Mr Js account.
Barclays has offered £400 for the distress and inconvenience it caused, and simple interest 
for not giving access to the funds sooner. With all this in mind, Im satisfied that Barclays has offered fair compensation for the impact its actions had on Mr J.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Barclays has offered fair compensation for 
giving incorrect notice when it closed the account and withholding access to the funds. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should now pay this to Mr J if it hasnt already. I make no further 
award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman