DRN-2833507
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV wont meet 
the full cost of her treatment under her employers group private medical insurance policy 
after she inadvertently exceeded the policys annual benefit limit.
What happened
Mrs R was a member of her employers group private medical insurance policy, held with 
CIGNA. The policy was subject to a benefit limit of £50,000 per member per policy year.
In November 2019, Mrs R was sadly diagnosed with breast cancer. She contacted CIGNA 
which agreed to provide cover for her forthcoming treatment, subject to the policys benefit 
limit.
In December 2019, the policy renewed and the benefit limit replenished. CIGNA continued to 
authorise Mrs Rs treatment.
In January 2020, Mrs R contacted CIGNA because she understood she may have exceeded 
the benefit limit. CIGNA checked and confirmed that this was the case. It said Mrs R would 
be liable for costs above this limit.
Mrs R complained to CIGNA. She said it had assured her it would provide warning if she 
was approaching the limit of her cover. She was unhappy that she had been left with a 
shortfall in cover for which she was liable. After further pending invoices were taken into 
account, this shortfall was over £8,000. She thought CIGNA should meet this cost.
CIGNA didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint. It said it had made Mrs R aware of the £50,000 
benefit limit and that she would be liable for anything over this. It said that although it would 
normally advise when the benefit limit was in danger of being exceeded, in this case it had 
received two large invoices in a very short space of time totalling over £34,000. It said this 
meant it hadnt been possible for it to have advised Mrs R any sooner.
Mrs R was unhappy at CIGNAs response. She referred her complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
The policy schedule states that cover is subject to an annual limit of £50,000 per person per 
year. Ive listed to the telephone calls which took place between CIGNA and Mrs R. Im 
satisfied that CIGNA pointed this limitation out to Mrs R when she began her treatment.
In December 2019, Mrs R was admitted to hospital for treatment. She rang CIGNA to obtain 
authorisation for this admission. She was clearly concerned to ensure her treatment was 
covered under the policy. CIGNAs adviser said:
Anything they do while youre in hospital is fine so dont worry about that.
The adviser went on to say that once Mrs R was back out of hospital, she would need to 
seek authorisation if she needed further treatment.
On 2 January 2020, having been discharged from hospital, Mrs R rang CIGNA to seek 
authorisation for a procedure she was to undergo the next day. She asked CIGNA to confirm 
how much money was remaining within her annual allowance.
The adviser noted that the allowance had replenished in December 2019 and that it was 
therefore likely that there was plenty of benefit remaining but said she would double check. 
Having done so, she advised Mrs R that costs were reported on the system once they had 
reached £15,000 but nothing was currently showing. She said:
You must be under £15k.
In fact, there were outstanding invoices for treatment which had already been administered 
to Mrs R and so, at the time the adviser gave Mrs R this assurance, the £50,000 limit had 
already been slightly exceeded.
On 8 January 2020, Mrs R rang CIGNA because shed learned that she may have exceeded 
the limit. CIGNA then confirmed that invoices had recently been received for treatment in 
December 2020, including almost £20,000 in respect of her hospital in-patient treatment, 
which had caused her to go over the £50,000 limit.
I would normally say it is the responsibility of the insured person to monitor how much 
benefit they have received under the policy and thus ensure the benefit limit is not exceeded. 
However, in this case, I consider that Mrs R was clearly concerned about her benefit limit 
and took reasonable steps to make sure she didnt exceed this. While she was in hospital, 
Vitality authorised all her treatment directly with the hospital so Mrs R wouldnt have known 
about the cost of this. The adviser in the telephone call of 2 January 2020 didnt mention that 
the system didnt necessarily have up to date information on the cost of treatment so far 
received. She thus gave Mrs R what amounted to an assurance that she would be covered 
for her forthcoming treatment.
I consider that, instead of giving Mrs R complete confidence that she was well within her 
benefit limit, the adviser should have included an appropriate caveat about the possibility of 
outstanding invoices. I consider that if she had done so, it would have likely caused Mrs R to 
check her treatment costs thus far with her treatment providers. I furthermore consider that 
on learning she had used up her benefit, Mrs R would likely have chosen to receive her 
further treatment through the NHS rather than privately.
I consider that Vitalitys error therefore caused Mrs R to incur expense she wouldnt 
otherwise have incurred. I therefore consider it should meet the full cost of Mrs Rs treatment 
up to 8 January 2020. I furthermore consider its original refusal to meet these costs has 
caused Mrs R considerable worry at a very difficult time in her life for which I consider it 
should pay her £200 compensation.
I invited both parties to comment on my provisional decision.
Both Mrs R and Vitality accepted the provisional decision without offering further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Given that both Mrs R and Vitality accepted my provisional decision, Im satisfied that the 
decision should stand and thereby become my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision and above, my final decision is that I uphold 
this complaint.
I require CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV to meet the full cost of Mrs Rs 
treatment up to 8 January 2020. If Mrs R has already paid these costs herself, it should 
reimburse Mrs R and add interest at the annual simple rate of 8% from the date she paid the 
invoices to the date of settlement.*
I further require CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV to pay Mrs R £200 
compensation.
* If CIGNA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs R how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs R a certificate showing 
this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman