DRN-1612341
The complaint
Mr E complains Card Protection Plan Ltd (CPP) won't issue a replacement settlement 
cheque.
What happened
In April 2014, CPP sent Mr E a cheque to settle a claim he had for the mis-selling of a policy. 
Mr E says he mislaid this cheque until recently. But when he took the cheque to his bank, he 
was unable to cash it because it was more than six months old. Mr E contacted CPP to issue 
a new cheque, but they refused. So he raised a complaint about it.
CPP looked into Mr E's complaint and issued their final response letter. This explained their 
scheme rules say that claims for mis-selling of these policies are cancelled if a settlement 
cheque isn't cashed within six months. And because Mr E had tried to cash his cheque more 
than six months after it was issued, he wasn't entitled to a new cheque. Mr E remained 
unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didn't think Mr E's complaint should be upheld. He didn't think CPP had 
acted unfairly, because the redress scheme rules explain claims will be cancelled if a 
cheque isn't cashed within six months. Our investigator also said we wouldn't be able to ask 
CPP to issue another cheque because the redress scheme for the mis-selling of policies like 
Mr E's, is now closed.
Mr E disagreed with our investigator, and explained he didn't think it was fair for CPP to hide 
behind the small print of their rules. Mr E said he had been mis-sold a policy by CPP, so it's 
unfair that he's unable to be compensated for this.
Mr E's comments didn't change our investigator's opinion, so Mr E's complaint was passed 
to me to investigate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I'm not upholding Mr E's complaint. I know this isn't the 
outcome he hoped for, but I'll explain my reasons below.
Mr E was mis-sold a policy that was administered by CPP. Redress schemes were set up by 
the High Court to deal with claims of mis-sold policies like Mr E's. And CPP was bound to 
handle these claims in line with the redress scheme rules.
 
Our service can only make a recommendation if we find CPP didn't correctly follow the 
redress scheme rules. So, for me to say Mr E should be compensated, I'd have to be 
satisfied CPP's decision not to reissue his settlement cheque goes against the scheme 
rules.The relevant redress scheme rules in this case say:
"Any cheque not encashed within six months shall be cancelled and the Scheme Claim to 
which it relates shall be deemed to have expired and such Scheme Creditor shall not receive 
any Redress and shall have no right of recourse to the Dispute Resolution Procedure."
Mr E's settlement cheque was sent to him in April 2014. So, under the rule detailed above, 
Mr E had until October 2014 to cash his cheque. Mr E admits he didn't cash his cheque 
within this six month timeframe because he misplaced it.
It's unfortunate Mr E wasn't able to cash his cheque within the relevant timeframe. But the 
redress scheme rules clearly explain that a claim will be deemed cancelled if a settlement 
cheque isn't cashed within six months. I've taken on board what Mr E has said about CPP 
relying on small print. However, that doesn't take away from the fact the redress scheme 
rules clearly set out what will happen if a cheque isn't cashed in time. And CPP were 
obligated to handle claims in line with those rules.
Mr E has said it's not fair he isn't being compensated for a policy CPP mis-sold. I should 
explain here, that CPP wasn't the business that sold the policy to Mr E. That was his bank -
 CPP merely were responsible for administering the policy. I also can't ignore the fact 
CPP took steps to compensate him for the mis-sale in April 2014 when they sent him the 
settlement cheque. Mr E just hasn't been able to benefit from the funds because he 
misplaced the cheque.
Mr E has said the time it took to receive the settlement cheque from CPP contributed to him 
mislaying it. But I'm not persuaded by that argument. Once the cheque was in Mr E's 
possession, it became his responsibility. So if Mr E had questions about the settlement, or 
lost the cheque, as he did in this case, it was his responsibility to contact CPP about it, in a 
timely manner. Mr E didn't do that, so it wouldn't be fair to ask CPP to compensate him for a 
mistake they had no involvement in.
The evidence I've seen persuades me CPP has acted in line with the relevant redress 
scheme rules. And because of this, I won't be asking CPP to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I'm not upholding Mr E's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman