DRN-3151773
The complaint
Miss A has complained Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, is asking her to repay a 
debt from a loan and various overdrafts which she never set up.
What happened
Miss A has had a current account with Halifax since 2014 and a savings account for the last 
four years.
In 2019 Miss A complained her debit card was lost. She was also being asked to repay 
debts from five overdrafts on current accounts recently opened, as well as payments on a 
loan for £3,500 taken out in January 2019. Miss A complained none of these activities were 
hers.
Halifax believed Miss A had been involved in committing a fraud. All payments made from 
the five new accounts were transfers into her existing current account. These were all made 
using an app on an iPhone which shed confirmed was hers on a visit to her bank on 
12 December 2018. They continued to hold her liable.
Miss A brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. Shes represented in her complaint 
by a relative. Hes confirmed Miss A is financially nave. Shes also been through a difficult 
personal time through serious family illness.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence provided by Halifax along with Miss As testimony 
from her representative. She noted there were clear inconsistencies. Overall she felt Miss A 
had known and had allowed someone else to have access to her account to set up new 
accounts and the loan. She wasnt going to ask Halifax to do anything further.
Miss As representative was disgusted with this response. He confirmed Miss A had not 
allowed anybody else to use her account. He also wondered how any bank could have 
allowed 12 different accounts to be set up within such a short time. He believed Halifax was 
failing its regulatory requirements on money laundering aspects alone.
Miss As complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for decision.
I completed a provisional decision on 5 October 2021. I also believed it was most likely 
Miss A knew that her account was being used and allowed this to happen.
Halifax accepted this outcome but her representative believed Id avoided answering his 
questions about Halifaxs regulatory liabilities.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im reaching the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision. 
Although Miss As representative continued to refer to Halifaxs regulatory liabilities, he 
provided no further evidence about the issues I raised. I explain below how I reached my 
outcome.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other circumstances do apply but nothing 
else thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here. So when we look at 
whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, one of the things we 
consider is whether the customer made the transactions themselves or allowed them to be 
made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund them.
To help me reach this decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by Halifax and 
Miss A. This includes details of the new accounts set up, how this was done, statements for 
the new accounts, as well as Miss As existing current account. Ive also noted the detail in 
our investigators view of 22 January 2021 but feel no need to rerun some of the arguments 
made there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects which drive the decision Im making.
Firstly I note Miss As current account was blocked in December 2018. She went to her 
branch with ID to get this unblocked. This included Miss A confirming that she was using the 
app on an iPhone. This iPhone and app was then used to make all the disputed transfers to 
and from Miss As current account in January 2019.
Miss As cousin told us Miss A reported her debit card lost and stolen when she went into 
her branch. That isnt what the branch records show. I believe that if Miss A had reported her 
card lost during that visit, there would be a clear note of this and a record of a card being 
ordered to replace her lost card. I also wonder if Miss A hadnt received a new card within a 
short period, why she didnt go back to Halifax to query its non-arrival. Ive not received any 
information despite a further request from Miss A about this aspect.
Miss A has told us she didnt use her current account that frequently. But that isnt reflected 
in her account statements when I look at the period before 12 December 2018. Things then 
change. Theres hardly any debit card use from 12-24 December 2018. But then theres a 
frenzy of activity at cash machines from 4 January 2019 onwards as well as many faster 
payments made from the account using the overdrafts from the newly-opened accounts.
So when I look at the newly-opened accounts, I can see those that were used  the current 
accounts  were all opened in January 2019. The full overdraft limits were used (amounting 
to £2,700) by transfers to Miss As existing current account. Faster payments were then 
made outwards. The device ID linked to these payments has been identified by Halifax as 
linked to another case involving a money mule.
I dont believe any of this use is what is normally seen when you look at normal current 
account use. Coupled with the fact that the iPhone linked to Miss As account (but only from 
12 December 2018) was the device used to make all the payments suggest to me that its more than likely it wasnt Miss A setting up the new accounts and making the transfers. 
Evidence from Miss As representative show she bought a new phone  and not an iPhone  
earlier in 2018.
Theres also evidence from Halifax showing Miss A called them to ensure her debit card 
could continue to be used at a cash machine on 4 January 2019. If her card was lost at this 
stage, Im not sure how she was still using it.
Ive considered Miss As point that this all took place without her knowledge but I find this 
hard to believe. Its unclear to me how all her security details for her mobile banking could 
have been compromised as well as her debit card being taken and used with the PIN, 
without her having shared that information. So I cant see how a completely unknown third-
party would be able to access Miss As debit card, mobile and account without her 
involvement.
And thats apart from the evidence showing Miss A was still checking the status of her 
account and never once complained to Halifax about the potential misuse. Also all of the 
new accounts being set up would have involved a great deal of paperwork  along with 
cards  being sent to Miss As home address. It would have been extremely difficult for her 
to have not noticed these.
A possible scenario is that Miss A was persuaded by friends or acquaintances to allow her 
cards and PIN to be used in exchange for some recompense. She may not even have 
known exactly what that use would entail but was persuaded there was no risk to her. 
However this would mean that Miss A had allowed someone else to use her account to 
spend money. By doing this she was authorising the use.
Miss As cousin told us Miss A had limited money available to her. Ive asked what the credit 
for £880 which was made into her account on 12 November 2018 but havent received any 
information. 
Ive considered all the issues Miss As representative has raised on her behalf.
Specifically I do think Halifax has failed to identify potential fraudulent behaviour by the 
number of accounts being opened and the transfers then made. 12 savings and current 
accounts were opened within a short period of time. Halifax think they may have identified 
this at some future date. I have to wonder why this didnt flag concerns immediately. Whilst I 
accept genuine customers may opt to open a number of different savings accounts, I dont 
think it is normal for five current accounts to be opened within three weeks of each other, 
overdrafts up to £750 being applied for and then rapidly used. And thats notwithstanding a 
loan application also being made.
Im not convinced if Miss A had made these applications herself using her genuine income 
and expenditure  which I dont think happened  then Halifax should have allowed the 
overdrafts or personal loan. Theres nothing to suggest that the income quoted in the credit 
applications was evidenced by Miss As current account. Halifax has queried why I was 
checking the affordability aspects of the various applications as they wondered whether 
Miss A was admitting shed made these. 
Thats not the case. I remind them that our service has an investigatory remit. I was 
exploring different aspects of this complaint.
My role as an ombudsman isnt to look at any failings by Halifax to meet regulatory 
standards as thats a job for the regulator. I have considered what impact this has had in this 
complaint.And this brings us to a difficult aspect. I believe Miss A authorised the use of her account. At 
the same time Im not convinced Miss A realised the extent of what she was involved in. 
Halifax had an opportunity to identify the number and nature of the transfers taking place 
from her account. They didnt and the result of this is that Miss A now owes Halifax a 
considerable amount of money. Whilst I have thought about whether Halifaxs actions have 
contributed to Miss As financial loss, I believe its Miss As actions, albeit unaware of the 
potential consequences, which have predominantly led to the overall outcome.
I note that the overall debt that Miss A will be expected to repay is a large amount of money 
and so appreciate her distress.
On balance I believe Miss A made or authorised the disputed Halifax transactions.
Miss As representative believes I have ignored their questions. However I dont think this is 
the case. I have referred here both to the law Im considering and have explained why my 
role isnt to consider whether Halifax has met regulatory standards.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss As complaint against 
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman