DRN-2966563
The complaint
Mrs B had two credit cards with Capital One (Europe) plc. She complained that Capital One 
lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs B opened a credit card with Capital One in December 2012. Capital One gave her a 
credit limit of £500. Her credit limit was increased in 2013 and 2014.
In August 2015, Mrs B applied to open a second credit card, which Capital One agreed.
In August 2017, Mrs B asked to increase the credit limit on her first account from £2,000 to 
£2,250. Capital One checked Mrs Bs credit file and assessed how her account had been 
managed. In the previous 12 months, Mrs B had been making the minimum payments in full 
and on time. Sometimes shed paid more than the minimum repayment. Capital One agreed 
the increase which Mrs B had requested.
In April 2018, Mrs B rang Capital One and said shed recently changed jobs, and was 
struggling with her finances. Capital One set up a payment plan on both accounts.
In August 2019. Mrs B rang Capital One and asked for the payment plans to be cancelled. 
She said she was now able to manage the accounts.
In August 2020, Mrs B rang Capital One and said she was struggling with her finances, 
because of extra expenses and other debts. Capital One set up a payment plan on both 
accounts.
On 24 February 2021, Mrs B emailed a complaint to Capital One. She said Capital One 
should never had allowed her to open two accounts with large credit limits on both. She said 
that when her second account had been opened in 2015, Capital One should have checked 
her credit file. This would have shown shed already defaulted on a personal loan with a 
bank, and had late payment markers too. Mrs B said shed only ever made minimum 
payments on both cards, and this should have shown Capital One that she couldnt have 
repaid her balance within a reasonable time  and so it shouldnt have let her open the 
second account. Mrs B said that because of Capital Ones irresponsible lending, she was 
still struggling with both accounts, and it had had a detrimental effect on her mental 
wellbeing. Mrs B said she wanted Capital one to refund her all interest shed paid, and any 
late payment charges. She wanted all late payment and default markers removed.
Capital One replied that it considered it was compliant with all the lending rules and 
regulations, and it also subscribed to the voluntary Standards of Lending Practice. 
In relation to Mrs Bs first account, Capital One said that it had been able to increase the 
amount lent under the terms and conditions of her agreement. It pointed out that it had to 
give 30 days written notice of any increase not requested by Mrs B, so shed had the 
opportunity to refuse the increase, but she hadnt done so. And Capital One said that when it 
checked Mrs Bs credit file prior to the August 2017 increase, this had shown no signs of 
financial distress such as recent significant arrears, or recent defaults. And for the next three 
years, Mrs B had paid the minimum payments in full, and generally on time  sometimes 
paying more than the minimum.
So Capital One refused to refund Mrs B for all interest and fees as shed requested. It said it 
had charged in line with the credit card agreement. And credit files couldnt be changed, as 
they have to reflect how accounts have been managed.
In relation to Mrs Bs second account, Capital One accepted that this meant she had access 
to credit which shed found more difficult to afford than Capital One had anticipated. So it 
refunded Mrs B with the costs of this borrowing, going back to when it was opened in August 
2015. It refunded Mrs B with £3.95 for fees, and £1,086.08 for interest. It added statutory 
interest less tax, and closed the account. The refund was credited to the £837.17 balance on 
her first account and the rest, £249.62, was paid to Mrs B as a cheque. Capital One also 
removed late markers from Mrs Bs credit file for the second account only.
Mrs B wasnt satisfied and asked this service to look at both accounts, because she thought 
Capital One had lent irresponsibly.
Our investigator explained that we couldnt look at what happened before April 2014. This 
was because Mrs Bs first account had been opened more than six years from when she 
raised her complaint and more than three years from when shed reasonably have been 
aware that she had cause to complain. So the investigator looked at what had happened on 
both accounts from April 2014 onwards.
The investigator didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. She said that before each increase, Capital 
One had given Mrs B 30 days notice and had told her she could refuse any increase 
offered. But Mrs B hadnt done this, and in August 2017 had asked for the £250 increase 
herself. And Mrs B had been making minimum payments, and sometimes more than this. All 
the information didnt suggest that Mrs B had been in any financial difficulties.
But the investigator saw that Capital One had offered Mrs B a refund on her second account. 
The investigator thought this was fair.
Mrs B wasnt satisfied, and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mrs B has been worried about her financial situation, and that its 
impacted her mental wellbeing. 
I agree with the investigator that this service cant look at what happened on Mrs Bs account 
before April 2014. This is because there are time limits for when complaints have to be 
brought to this service. And Mrs B brought her complaint more than six years after opening 
the first account, and more than three years from when shed reasonably have been aware 
that she had cause to complain. So I can consider the first account from April 2014 onwards, 
and the second account from when it was opened in August 2015.
In response to Mrs Bs complaint, Capital One agreed to refunds for the second account as 
Mrs B had requested. This included fees and interest, and it added interest less tax on these 
sums. It also removed the credit file markers for the second account, and closed the account. So theres no outstanding issue for Mrs Bs second account. Ive therefore focused 
on her first account, from April 2014 onwards. 
When considering whether a lender has lent irresponsibly, we look at whether the lender 
completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that the borrower would be 
able to repay credit in a sustainable way. Here, on Mrs Bs first account, the credit limit 
increase after April 2014 was the one in August 2017. Mrs B had asked for a credit limit 
increase from £2,000 to £2,250.
Theres a conflict of evidence about what was on Mrs Bs credit file at that time in August 
2017:
- Mrs B said that shed already defaulted on a personal loan with a bank, had late 
payment markers, and her use of credit was high in relation to her personal 
circumstances;
- Capital One said that there were no signs of financial distress such as recent 
significant arrears or recent defaults.
I dont have definitive evidence about what was on Mrs Bs credit file in August 2017. But I 
think its possible that the difference between the two versions may be that the default to 
which Mrs B refers, may not have been what Capital One counted as recent.
Ive also looked at the history of Mrs Bs first account up to when she applied for the August 
2017 increase. Shed been making minimum payments, usually on time, and sometimes 
paying more than that. So I dont think there were any obvious warning signs that Mrs Bs 
request for the August 2017 increase was more than shed be able to afford. So I dont find 
that Capital One lent irresponsibly when agreeing to Mrs Bs request.
Ive also looked at the later history of Mrs Bs first account. After the August 2017 credit limit 
increase, Mrs B continued to keep up with minimum payments or more until April 2018, 
when she asked for a payment arrangement. She kept to this, and by summer 2019, the 
account was back on track and Mrs B told Capital One she no longer needed the payment 
plan. 
So theres nothing to indicate that Mrs Bs first account was lent irresponsibly. Capital One 
carried out appropriate checks, and there was nothing to suggest that Mrs B wouldnt be 
able to afford the lending. So I dont require Capital One to take any further action on that 
account. I consider its offer in relation to the second account was fair and reasonable. 
I can see that Mrs B has been given details for debt charities, and if shes still experiencing 
financial difficulties and distress, I hope that shell feel able to contact them for further help.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman