DRN-4002620
The complaint
Mr T complains that West Sussex and Surrey Credit Union Limited trading as Boom! Credit 
Union (BCU) irresponsibly gave him a loan he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In May 2018, Mr T applied for a loan of £4,500 with BCU for the purpose of consolidating 
existing debts. BCU assessed Mr Ts application and said it wouldnt be able to offer him a 
consolidation loan of £4,500 because it wouldnt sufficiently reduce his outgoings and the 
new loan would be unaffordable. 
A series of email exchanges followed between Mr T and BCU as well as a face to face 
meeting to discuss the possibility of offering a larger loan in order to consolidate more of his 
debts and therefore reduce his monthly outgoings. Following a review of Mr Ts financial 
circumstances, which included reviewing his recent bank statements, BCU offered Mr T a 
loan of £10,000. It said this would clear his overdraft and repay a number of his creditors 
reducing his monthly debt repayments by £800. He would be required to pay BCU £385 per 
month, meaning an overall saving of £415 per month and at a lower interest rate than most 
of his existing borrowing. 
Mr T entered into an unregulated cash loan with BCU borrowing £10,000 over a term of 48 
months. He was required to pay 47 monthly repayments of £320, followed by a final payment 
of £176.21. In addition to the payment of £320, BCU said Mr T was required to pay a further 
£65 per month into a separate savings pot with BCU. The purpose of this was that Mr T 
would be able to use the savings to repay the loan early and therefore pay less interest. Mr T 
repaid the loan early in June 2021 with the help of these savings funds. 
In October 2022, Mr T complained to BCU to say that the agreement had been unaffordable 
from the outset and should not have been given to him. He said the loan had made his 
position worse and hed needed to take further high cost borrowing the month after the BCU 
loan. He said that at the time of taking out the loan he was in a debt management plan and 
BCU had gone against its own lending policy by giving him the loan in these circumstances. 
BCU responded to say that it didnt think it had acted unfairly. It said that it had completed a 
thorough affordability review with him which included an agreement from Mr T that he would 
use the loan proceeds to pay off his existing debts and that he would change his spending 
behaviours in order to better manage his finances. It said that the review it completed 
demonstrated that the BCU loan would place Mr T in a better financial position. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He was satisfied that BCU had 
completed reasonable affordability checks and that it made a fair lending decision based on 
the information and evidence it had gathered. 
Mr T didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ts complaint. I accept that 
Mr Ts agreement was unregulated and so BCUs obligations arent exactly the same as 
those for most lenders. Specifically, as it is a Credit Union, BCUs specialist sourcebook is 
the Credit Unions sourcebook rather than the Consumer Credit Sourcebook as it wasnt 
carrying out credit-related regulated activities when providing the loan to Mr T. 
However, as a firm authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority, I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect BCU to have carried out reasonable enquiries into Mr Ts 
circumstances to check that hed be able to make the payments to the loan. Id also only 
expect it to have proceeded in the event that those reasonable enquiries demonstrated that 
Mr T could make the payments.
As part of the application for the loan, Mr T said he was employed and earning £2,850 per 
month. He also declared that his living expenses (including his mortgage) were around £700 
per month and his existing loan commitments were £800 per month and his credit card 
repayments around £300 per month. 
BCU didnt accept Mr Ts initial application, but as Ive said above, it made further enquiries 
with him. It looked into the possibility of granting him a loan of £10,000 instead of the £4,500 
requested. In some circumstances it might be concerning that a larger loan was being 
considered when a lower one was deemed unaffordable. However, in the specific 
circumstances of this case, its clear the reason for this was to reduce Mr Ts overall 
outgoings. So, I dont think BCU acted unfairly or unreasonably in considering this approach. 
The purpose of the loan was for debt consolidation and in the process reduce Mr Ts regular 
outgoings on debt repayments. I think the further enquiries BCU made because of this were 
reasonable. It reviewed copies of Mr Ts bank statements to not only verify what he had said, 
but to establish whether the consolidation loan would likely improve his financial position. 
From reviewing Mr Ts bank statements its clear there was a large amount of non-essential 
expenditure. It appears BCU noticed this too and in email exchanges with Mr T told him that 
a major change of spending / budgeting would be needed if he wanted to improve his 
financial situation even after taking out the BCU loan. BCU also suggested using the loan 
proceeds to clear his overdraft in full as Mr T was being charged around £90 to £100 per 
month in overdraft charges. Mr T replied to BCU to say he agreed these were good 
suggestions and that he would change my spending and budgeting alongside this.
BCUs calculations that the loan would save Mr T around £415 per month (plus up to an 
additional £100 in monthly overdraft charges) appears to me to have been broadly accurate. 
This is based on the loans and repayments Mr T and BCU identified as ones which the 
consolidation loan would repay. So, it seems the loan would likely have placed Mr T in a 
better financial position, if he used the funds in the way he said he would. 
Taking into account what BCU could see about Mr Ts income and his committed essential 
expenditure, this appears to have left Mr T with sufficient disposable income each month to 
meet all of his commitments and the new loan. I therefore dont think BCU made an unfair 
lending decision when granting this loan to him. 
I note Mr T says BCU went against its own policy of lending to people in a debt management plan. However, whether thats right or not doesnt impact what I think is a fair outcome in this 
case. This is because Im satisfied, based on the available evidence, that the loan did 
appear affordable to Mr T, and I think BCU completed reasonable and detailed enquiries 
about his ability to repay before approving the loan. Further, Im not persuaded in any event 
that the granting of this loan caused Mr T a loss. 
Mr T says that the loan made his financial situation worse. However, from what Ive seen, it 
appears he didnt use the BCU loan to repay all of the existing debts he told BCU that would 
be repaid. In any event, from what BCU could see during the application process, this loan 
would improve Mr Ts overall financial position if he consolidated his debts in the way he had 
said he would, and Ive not seen anything to persuade me otherwise. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman