DRN-2296252
The complaint
Ms L says The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) gave her 
unsuitable advice when it recommended she contract-out of the state earnings related 
pension scheme (SERPS).
Ms L is represented by Fair Return Legal Services Limited (FR).
What happened
Ms L received advice from the Co-operative Insurance Society Limited (CIS) about her 
pension arrangements. CIS has since been taken over and Royal London now has 
responsibility for its historical acts and omissions in this case. To keep things simple, Ill 
generally refer to Royal London in my decision.
Ms L was advised in July 1988 to contract-out of SERPS with effect from April 1987. She 
agreed and opened a personal pension plan into which rebated contributions from the then 
Department of Health and Social Security (DHSS) were paid. Royal London notes these 
payments were only received between 1987/88 until 1990/91.
In 2020 FR complained on Ms Ls behalf to Royal London about the advice she'd been given 
in 1988. For example, it said Ms L was exposed to risks that werent properly explained, 
such as moving from a position where SERPS provided guaranteed future pension benefits 
to one where she was exposed to the market. It said she incurred unnecessary fund costs. 
And that Royal London hadnt adhered to the regulatory requirements of the time.
Royal London said that given the criteria for recommending contracting-out at the time, in 
particular with regard to Ms Ls age and salary in 1988, as well as the government incentives 
available to her, she had been correctly advised. It was also satisfied she was provided with 
clear information about the transaction, including that returns from investments were not 
guaranteed.
The Investigator didnt uphold Ms Ls complaint. She disagreed and on her behalf FR 
provided the following response:
[Ms L] does not accept what you have said. There is a far more significant issue than [her] 
age and earnings at the time of the advice to transfer. It is this - was [Ms L] warned of the 
risk that the transfer could result in a substantially lower pension and, if so, was she willing to 
take that risk? The answer is, no she was not warned of that risk. If she had been, she would 
not have been willing to take it. The advice was therefore unsuitable from both legal and 
regulatory perspectives.
As Ms Ls complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me to review 
afresh and issue a final decision. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The events complained about happened in 1988. It is perhaps inevitable given the passage 
of a third of a century that I dont have perfect information to review. Im also mindful of the 
dynamic regulatory position over that time. The way things must be done today isnt 
necessarily the way things could be done 33 years ago.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
The advice was provided to Ms L in 1988. At the time, CIS was a member of the Life 
Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO). This required members to 
exercise due skill, care and diligence and deal with investors fairly. Members were required 
to consider the investors financial position generally as well as other relevant circumstances 
when giving advice. But there was no requirement to complete a full fact-find or issue a 
recommendation letter. So, the documentation relating to the advice is limited.
For context, Id also observe that many consumers received recommendations to contract 
out of SERPS around the time Ms L received her advice. This was because the assumed 
growth of a private pension and the annuity rates available indicated there was a reasonable 
prospect theyd be better off at retirement. Unfortunately, factors affecting the whole sector 
including lower investment returns, lower annuity rates and changes in life expectancy, led to 
significantly reduced returns for pension plans like the one she held.
FR has drawn comparisons between the benefits Ms L has received from her Royal London 
pension and what she wouldve received had she not contracted out of SERPS. Leaving 
aside the gaps in what we know about things like why Royal London stopped receiving 
DHSS contributions for her plan after 1990/91, I can appreciate why Ms L might feel shes 
lost out in some way because of the advice she followed. 
But even if Ms L might now be worse off having contracted out of SERPS, that doesn't 
necessarily mean the advice she received at the time was unsuitable. It's important cases 
like this are assessed based on what was known or reasonably assumed at the time; not 
what is now known with the benefit of hindsight.
Ms Ls age at the time the advice was given is important. That's because the growth that 
might have been achieved in a personal pension was affected by the length of time between 
each payment and her retirement age. The longer the money was invested, the better the 
chance that she wouldve been better off by contracting out of SERPS. For consumers who 
were closer to retirement it was generally more sensible for them to remain in SERPS.
For this reason, firms like Royal London set what were called 'pivotal ages'  this was 
essentially the maximum age for men and women below which they might expect to be 
better off by contracting out of SERPS.
The amount a consumer earned at the time the advice was given is also an important 
consideration. That's because someone who only paid a small amount of National Insurance 
would receive a very small rebate from the DHSS. And the charges on a personal pension 
would make it unlikely that these individuals would be better off in retirement.For this reason, firms also often set a minimum earning level  this was essentially the 
lowest amount a person could earn above which they might expect to be better off by 
contracting out of SERPS.
At the time Ms L received the advice, Royal Londons pivotal age for women was 45 and the 
minimum earnings level it set was £2,132. Ms L was 28 at the time the advice was given. It 
also recorded that in 1987/88 she earned £4,600 and in 1988/89 this was likely to increase 
to around £5,000. So, she easily met what were considered at the time to be the key criteria. 
My conclusion here is strengthened by the fact that Ms L wouldve benefited from a 2% 
enhancement on her SERPS rebates (until 1993). She was also able to re-join SERPS in the 
future. So, I dont think it was reasonably foreseeable at the time the advice to contract-out 
was likely to leave her worse off.
The information Ms L wouldve received in 1988 about the CIS pension scheme made it 
clear that her SERPS rebates would be invested in a with-profits fund. The standard 
literature which accompanied illustrations said:
Each contribution accumulates to provide a fund at State pension age, part of which is 
guaranteed. The remaining investment value comes from bonuses representing your share 
of the profits of our life and pensions business. Bonuses are normally added throughout the 
duration of the plan and, once added, they are guaranteed.
Ive not seen any evidence contemporaneous with events in 1988 which show the standard 
personal pension plan Ms L took out was a clear mis-match for her in terms of exposure to 
risk. While theres no risk appetite assessment, her funds were placed in a wide range of 
stocks and investments. The information she was given also made reasonably clear that any 
bonuses payable were dependent on investment performance.
Based on the information Ive seen, I'm satisfied that the advice Ms L received in 1988 was 
suitable. I appreciate she feels she may have lost out because of what happened. But based 
on the relevant criteria and what was known and reasonably assumed at the time, there was 
a good prospect shed have been better off by contracting out. And the advice she received 
was in line with that likelihood.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Ms Ls complaint and I dont require 
The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman