DRN-1388495
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy because Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) 
declined a claim she made on her pet insurance policy.  
What happened
Mrs H and her husband were out walking with Charlie and another dog. Mrs H has said that 
her husband was holding Charlies lead and when he went to change hands on the lead 
Charlie ran off and was unfortunately hit by a car. 
Mrs H had Charlie treated by a vet. When she made a claim on her pet insurance policy, 
Red Sands declined it. Red Sands have said, in summary, that Mrs Hs husband hadnt 
taken reasonable steps or used the lead in such a way as to prevent the lead slipping from 
his hand.
Mrs H complained to Red Sands, she was still unhappy with their response and referred her 
complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld the complaint as there was no evidence 
that the lead used wasnt in good condition and that the lead slipping out of Mrs Hs 
husbands hands was an accident that could not have been foreseen. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of the incident arent generally in dispute in this case. Although Red 
Sands have referred to general conditions 9.1.1 about keeping a dog on a lead whilst on a 
designated road, both parties accept that Charlie was on a lead. So I wont make a further 
finding on this.
Red Sands have relied on the below term to decline the claim:
9.1 General Conditions
9.1.3 You must ensure that any dog lead, collar and/or harness is in good condition and fits 
your pet to prevent escape. You must also ensure that any lead is used in such a way as to 
prevent the same slipping out of your grasp should your pet suddenly pull away from you.
But I dont agree with the decline of the claim based on this term and Ill explain why below. 
Theres no evidence from either party that it was an unsuitable lead or collar (under the 
policy terms). 
Red Sands said in their final response letter; As Charlie was able to slip their collar/lead it 
would appear that all reasonable measures had not been taken to ensure that Charlies lead 
and collar fitted securely. Red Sands have also said that further steps could have been taken to prevent the lead 
slipping whilst changing hands, particularly as the incident happened near a road. They 
provided the example of keeping one hand on the lead until the other hand the lead was 
changing to held the lead. The policy doesnt define using any lead in such a way as to 
prevent the same slipping out of your grasp. For example, it doesnt state that both hands 
must be on the lead.
Based on all the evidence, I cant reasonably say that Mrs Hs husband didnt ensure that the 
lead was being used in such a way to prevent it slipping out of his grasp. Based on how the 
incident has been described, he was doing something very normal  switching hands on a 
dog lead. At some point Mrs Hs husband has lost control of the lead which enabled Charlie 
to run off and unfortunately get hit by a car. 
Ive also noted that Mrs H has been consistent throughout her recollections. She hasnt 
exaggerated the incident, but in my opinion, described reasonably accurately what is likely to 
have happened just before Charlie was hit by a car. As Mrs H told Red Sands in an email 
dated 9 June: Charlie didnt escape it was just the slip of the lead out of my husbands hand 
that this accident happened. Mrs H hasnt tried to change her story to suit the claim she was 
making and I find her testimony plausible. 
Whilst I thank Red Sands for taking the time to respond to our investigators assessment, 
based on everything Ive seen, I uphold this complaint. I say this because this type of 
insurance policy is meant to help protect against the unforeseen and accidents  subject to 
the policy terms. In my opinion this was an accident that couldnt have been foreseen and 
not caused by Mrs Hs husband being negligent. It follows that I dont think that Red Sands 
have fairly declined the claim based on the policy terms. 
Putting things right
Red Sands should pay the claim subject to the terms and conditions of the policy and 
deduction of any excess under the policy terms. 
In addition, Red Sands should pay 8% simple interest* from the date payment was made, to 
the date of settlement.
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs H how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mrs H a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited should do what Ive set out in the 
preceding paragraph. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2020.
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman