DRN-2903098
The complaint
Mr L complains Hiscox Underwriting Limited unfairly declined a claim he made on his 
business insurance following the theft of some equipment from his car.
What happened
In late 2020, Mr Ls car was broken into and items were taken. This included a laptop  
which was in the pocket of the back seat and some videography equipment which was in a 
box in the boot. 
After making some enquiries, Hiscox declined the claim, it said theft from an unattended 
vehicle isnt covered unless the items were completely hidden. It didnt think Mr L had done 
this.
Mr L complained to Hiscox about the decision. He provided photos showing the windows 
were darkened with privacy glass; he argued they were sufficiently hidden from view. He 
also complained about the length of time it had taken for Hiscox to respond. Hiscox didnt 
agree to change its position so Mr L complained to our service.
Our investigator thought Hiscox had acted reasonably in declining the claim as the items 
werent completely hidden. She noted that it had taken around a month for the claim decision 
to be made, but she didnt think this was an unreasonable amount of time. She accepted 
there was an issue with some documents being transferred between the broker and insurer 
but didnt think it caused an unreasonable delay to the claim decision.
Mr L didnt agree with this. He didnt agree the laptop could be seen. He said it was in a 
black case and was the same colour material as the back of the seat and the pocket  so he 
didnt think it would have been distinguishable at night. He also said the photos he provided 
of the car were taken in a well-lit carpark, whereas the carpark where the theft had occurred 
wasnt well lit. So he didnt think anyone would have been able to see into the car.
He also argued that a household insurance policy wouldnt exclude theft of items you could 
see through a window into the property.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Mr Ls policy say it will not pay for:
theft from an unattended vehicle unless the item is completely hidden within the storage 
compartment, locked boot or locked trailer of the vehicle and all security measures on the 
vehicle or trailer are fully operational.
Hiscox has said that as the boot to Mr Ls car doesnt have a parcel shelf, the equipment in 
the boot could be seen. And as the laptop was in a seat pocket in the back of the car, it 
doesnt consider either as being completely hidden.
Mr L has argued that given his windows are darkened with privacy glass, and his car was left 
in a carpark at night, a thief wouldnt have been able to see into the car. So, he considers 
this is enough to say they were completely hidden. Hes also pointed to the equipment in the 
boot as being in a storage container, and the laptop being in a black case, that was the 
same colour as the back of the car seat and pocket. He argues a thief wouldnt have been 
able to make out it was there. 
Ive seen the photographs of Mr Ls car, and I accept it may be more difficult to see in at 
night due to the privacy glass. But in the photos Ive seen, its possible to see into the car 
where there is some light shone on it. And the video Mr L has sent is isnt close up to the 
glass, hes stood a foot or so away from the car. This doesnt persuade me that someone 
looking through the window wouldnt be able to see into the car and make out the items 
shape.  So I dont consider this enough to say the items were completely hidden in a storage 
compartment or boot. 
I accept the items themselves were within containers  so a thief wouldnt necessarily have 
known what exactly the items were, but overall I dont think Hiscox has acted unfairly in 
relying on its policy term to decline the claim. The term says the items must be completely 
hidden within a boot or storage compartment. I take this to mean that a cover would need to 
be over the boot  so you couldnt see into it. The items being in a storage box doesnt mean 
they are completely hidden from view. And I understand storage compartment to mean a 
closed compartment you cant see into, rather than a seat pocket. 
Mr Ls made arguments about home insurance, and that items dont need to be hidden from 
windows for claims to be paid. But Hiscox is entitled to decide which risks it wants to ensure, 
and on what terms. And based on everything Ive seen I dont think its acted unfairly in 
relying on that term. So whilst I understand Mr L will be disappointed, I cant reasonably ask 
Hiscox to cover the claim. 
I understand its left Mr L in a difficult position, he relied on the equipment for work and was 
understandably anxious to receive an outcome. But overall, I dont think Hiscox caused 
unnecessary delays in handling the claim. Where it had difficulty opening some of the files, I 
think it acted promptly to communicate this so they could be received another way. And the 
claim was declined in around four weeks; that doesnt seem an unreasonable amount of time 
given the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman