DRN-4365970
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that a car he ordered through Applied Leasing Ltd (AL) wasnt provided. 
And, after he cancelled the order, AL didnt refund the fee he paid.
What happened
In December 2022, Mr B placed an order with AL, a credit broker, to lease a new car and 
arrange finance for this. He paid a £250 holding deposit and a £360 service fee. AL initially 
told Mr B that the car would be delivered within three months. However, in March 2023, AL 
told him this wouldnt happen, and he was given an updated estimated delivery date of late 
May or early June 2023. Mr B said he had no confidence in the delivery dates hed been 
given, and he asked to cancel the agreement.
AL didnt think that, as the credit broker, they were responsible for the delays, as these were 
outside of their control. And, while they agreed to cancel the order, they said their fees 
wouldnt be refunded. Mr B wasnt happy with this, and he brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator explained why we had the jurisdiction to consider Mr Bs complaint. He also 
said that the agreement Mr B signed included a £250 cancellation fee. So, he thought that 
AL were acting reasonably by charging this.
With regards to the service fee, the investigator referred to the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA), specifically sections 155 and 173. They said that, while the terms Mr B had agreed 
to said this fee wasnt refundable, section 155 of the CCA said that (because Mr B hadnt 
entered into, or was unlikely to enter into, a regulated agreement within six months) AL were 
only entitled to keep £5 of the fee. And section 173 said that, where ALs terms were 
inconsistent with the CCA, then the provisions of the CCA made ALs non-refund term void 
in these circumstances.
As such, the investigator said that AL should refund the service fee to Mr B, less £5, and pay 
statutory interest on this refund.
AL didnt agree with the investigator. They said the £260 service fee is chargeable for the 
provisions of Sourcing, Ordering and delivering the vehicle, not facilitating the Credit 
Agreement. While they acknowledged that they hadnt delivered the car to Mr B, they said 
that the delivery wouldve taken place, despite manufacture delays if the order hadnt been 
cancelled by Mr B.
AL also explained that theyve since updated their terms, which now breaks down their fee. 
And, given this, they think that a refund of £120 including VAT would be reasonable.
However, AL went on to say that wed previously said that credit broking wasnt a regulated 
activity, so didnt fall within our jurisdiction to consider. They said that an industry trade body 
also confirmed to them that this was the case. So, they think this contradicting view is mis-
leading and unclear.
Because AL didnt agree with the investigator, this has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time.
Firstly, Id like to address ALs comments about whether we can consider this matter. While 
theyve referred to another decision we made, and provided an extract of this, I want to make 
it clear that we consider every case on its own merits, based on individual circumstances, 
facts, and evidence. As such, while we might decide that, given certain circumstances, were 
unable to consider one case about a credit broking fee, it doesnt necessarily mean that 
were then unable to consider every case about credit broking fees.
In this instance, AL ordered the car for Mr B as an ancillary action to their credit broking 
activity  the car was only ordered by AL as they were also arranging the finance for Mr B, 
so the two are intrinsically linked. And, as credit broking is a regulated activity, Im satisfied 
that the CCA applies in this instance, and this is something were able to look at. 
When Mr B ordered the car through AL on 17 December 2022, he paid a £250 holding 
deposit and a service fee of £360. The Leasing Broker Service Agreement, dated 12 
December 2022, states the service fee was chargeable to source, order and arrange 
delivery of the vehicle and does not represent or guarantee an acceptance of finance. 
Term 6.2 of ALs terms and conditions also says:
If the Customer for any reason  wishes to terminate the Contract 14days after the 
Commencement Date they must inform AL in writing and will incur an administration 
charge of £250 which will be satisfied by the forfeit of the Holding Deposit, in 
addition AL reserves the right to retain the full Sourcing Fee.
Im satisfied, and its not disputed, that the sourcing fee referred to in the terms and 
conditions and the service fee referred to in the service agreement are one and the same.
Its also not disputed that, due to circumstances outside of ALs control, there was a delay in 
the car being supplied to Mr B. The order form stated the cars availability as being March 
2023 (Anticipated Delivery Date, NOT Guaranteed). But in March 2023, Mr B was told the 
car was still awaiting a build slot, and the anticipated delivery date was now late May or early 
June 2023. As a result of this, Mr B cancelled the order.
The terms Mr B agreed to are clear in that cancellation of the order after 14-days would incur 
a £250 charge, and this is collected by way of him forfeiting the holding deposit. As this is a 
separate charge to the fees Mr B paid upon order, then Im satisfied that AL are reasonable 
to charge this. And I wont be asking them to waive this fee.While Mr B cancelled the order within six months, Ive considered whether the car was likely 
to be provided to him within six-months of the order, as this timescale is relevant to the CCA. 
Mr B placed his order and paid the fees to AL on 17 December 2022. As such, the six 
months expire on 17 June 2023. In the update that AL provided to Mr B in March 2023, he 
was told the car had an anticipated delivery date of a few weeks before the six-month 
timescale expired. But Ive noted this was an anticipated date, and not a guaranteed date. 
Given the reasons AL gave for the initial delay  Brexit, Covid-19, and the semiconductor 
shortage - and that these are still factors which would affect the supply of new cars, Im 
satisfied that its more likely than not that the car wouldnt have been supplied to Mr B by 17 
June 2023 had the order not been cancelled.
Section 155 of the CCA says that Subject to subsection (2A), the excess over £5 of a fee or 
commission for his services charged by a credit-broker to an individual to whom this 
subsection applies shall cease to be payable or, as the case may be, shall be recoverable by 
the individual if the introduction does not result in his entering into a relevant agreement 
within the six months following the introduction.
Given that, as the car hasnt been supplied and I havent seen that Mr B has entered into, or 
was likely to enter into, a relevant agreement within six months of the £360 fee being paid, 
Im satisfied that section 155 of the CCA only allows AL to keep £5 of the fee i.e., £355 
should be refunded to Mr B.
However, I also need to consider that the terms Mr B agreed to say the fee paid isnt 
refundable and that AL reserves the right to retain the full Sourcing Fee.
Section 173 of the CCA says a term contained in a regulated agreement or linked 
transaction, or in any other agreement relating to an actual or prospective regulated 
agreement, or linked transaction, is void if, to the extent that, it is inconsistent with a 
provision for the protection of the debtor or hirer or his relative or any surety contained in this 
Act or in any regulation made under this Act.
The agreement Mr B signed with AL is a linked transaction to the regulated agreement they 
were arranging to finance the car. As such, Im satisfied that Section 173 of the CCA applies 
in this instance. This means that any of ALs terms are void if they are inconsistent with the 
CCA. And the no refund term is inconsistent with Section 155 of the CCA. Which means 
that, in this instance, ALs term is void and Mr B is entitled to £355 of the fee refunded.
This is not to say that I havent considered ALs comments about their subsequent change in 
terms which would mean that Mr B wouldve been entitled to a £120 refund had he signed 
these terms. But, in this instance, he wasnt offered these terms. And I dont think its 
reasonable for AL to now apply them retrospectively.
As such, I dont think that applying the terms of the CCA is therefore inherently unfair.
Putting things right
Based on the above, AL should refund Mr B £355 of the £360 fee he paid, and apply 8% 
simple yearly interest on this refund, calculated from the date Mr B cancelled the order to the 
date of the refund.
HM Revenue & Customs requires AL to take off tax from this interest. AL must give Mr B a 
certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint. And Applied Leasing Ltd should follow 
my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman