DRN-4081723
The complaint
Mr R has complained about KGM Underwriting Services Limited. He isnt happy that it turned 
down his claim and avoided his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R took out a motor insurance policy with KGM through a comparison website using 
webchat and changed the car on cover midway through the policy which renewed at a later 
stage. He made a claim under the policy after he was involved in an accident after losing 
control of his car. 
KGM looked into the claim and decided Mr Rs car was a write off and offered him market 
value. But when Mr R challenged the valuation of his car KGM said hed answered the 
question it asked about modifications to his car incorrectly. And it considered this to be a 
deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid his policy, 
decline his claim because of this and keep the premium hed already paid.
As Mr R wasnt happy about this he brought his complaint to this Service and our 
investigator didnt think it should be upheld. Although she had some sympathy for Mr R and 
understood that the car had previously been written off she agreed there had been a 
qualifying misrepresentation and agreed it was deliberate or reckless and that KGM were 
entitled to avoid his policy and retain the premium hed paid.
As Mr R didnt agree with the investigator the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it.
KGM thinks Mr R failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
stated during his change of vehicle that his car didnt have any modifications when it did. 
And he didnt tell it at renewal about the modifications when his renewal documentation 
made it clear that it was based on the fact that his car wasnt modified as well. And Ive 
looked at the question he was asked when he changed vehicles and at renewal and I agree 
he failed to take reasonable care. This is because he was asked if his new car had any 
modifications and he didnt tell KGM that it had been modified. I think this was a clear 
question asked by KGM and, importantly, it was clear in the statement of fact at renewal that 
the policy was based on his car not having any modifications. 
Mr R said that his new car didnt have any modifications because he wasnt aware that it had 
been modified and suggests that there would be changes to his car as it was previously a 
Category D write off. But Ive listened to a call between Mr R and one of KGMs case 
handlers and hes asked whether his car has been modified in any way. He said that he had 
changed the brakes and goes on to say that the car has a rear spoiler and skirts. And when 
he was questioned further he explains that he placed skirting on the car and when 
specifically asked if he did this himself he said Yes, I did yes before going on to say he did it 
a few months ago. 
Mr R also acknowledged when pushed during the call that he had changed the wheels on 
his car after one was damaged. Mr R apologised that he hadnt mentioned this before saying 
the car does have 19-inch alloy wheels which he said he changed a few months before the 
accident as well. So, Mr R has said that he changed parts himself and acknowledged that he 
was aware that his alloy wheels werent standard although they were the same width. 
I do appreciate that Mr R may not have fully realised all the parts KGM has identified were 
modifications and not standard. But, I think he was aware, at the very least, that the wheels 
werent standard. Ive seen pictures of the new wheels compared to the standard wheels and 
they are clearly different, including non-manufacturer markings on the new wheels and Mr R 
acknowledged during the call that he knew they were different. And so, I think this means Mr 
R failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he said his car 
wasnt modified when in fact it had a number of modifications. 
KGM has provided evidence which shows that if Mr R had not made this misrepresentation it 
wouldnt have insured and provided cover. This means I am satisfied Mr Rs 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
I also think Mr Rs misrepresentation was a reckless or deliberate misrepresentation. This is 
because I think Mr R must have realised that his car was modified given what he said during 
the calls and his general knowledge about this particular make and model of car. I 
appreciate hes said his car was previously a Category D, but he has acknowledged that 
there were some modifications to his car and that he undertook some changes himself 
(including adding full skirts all-round the car and replacing the non-standard alloy wheels). Therefore, Im satisfied KGM was entitled to avoid Mr Rs policy in accordance with CIDRA. 
And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, KGM does not have to deal 
with his claim following the accident. And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach 
to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing KGM to rely on it to avoid Mr Rs policy produces 
the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint. 
Turning to the way Mr Rs claim was handled I agree that KGM couldve dealt with things 
better. I can understand why Mr R has found the way it dealt with the claim frustrating and 
he must have been disappointed that it said it was going to pay the claim only to change its 
position. But KGMs engineer looked at his car and identified various modifications and 
although it is a shame that KGM communicated with Mr R incorrectly in the meantime I think 
its conclusions are fair. And so, Mr R has only faced the loss of expectation of getting his 
claim paid as opposed to anything else so Im not awarding compensation for this. 
Finally, I note that Mr R would like the salvage (his car) back from KGM which is 
understandable. However, as our investigator explained there are procedures in place for 
the return of salvage depending on the category which he will have to follow. Ill leave Mr R 
to advance this with KGM. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman