DRN-1214793
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Mr D 
says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
What happened
Mr D took out a credit card with HSBC in November 2004. He was sold the PPI at the same 
time. The policy cost 79p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. It wouldve paid 10% 
of the monthly outstanding balance for 12 months if Mr D was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. Mr D didnt agree with our adjudicator, so the 
complaint comes to me to decide. He says the policy was of no use to him as he was self-
employed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think HSBC made it clear that Mr D didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this. I say this because Ive 
seen a copy of the credit agreement that Mr D signed in November 2004 and I can see he 
chose to take out PPI. There was a separate box on the form headed Optional Cardholder 
Repayment Protector and I can see Mr D signed this box to confirm he wanted to purchase 
PPI. And as PPI wouldve appeared on his monthly credit card statements, had it been 
added to Mr Ds account without either his knowledge or consent, I wouldve expected him to 
query this at some point in the first few months after his account opened.
HSBC didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D  he chose to buy it himself on a postal application 
form. So HSBC didnt have to check that the PPI was right for him. But it did have to give 
him enough information about the policy so he could decide for himself if he wanted it.
I dont think HSBC did this  but I dont think it wouldve made a difference to Mr Ds decision 
to take out the PPI. I say this because he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits 
on the PPI cover which may have made it difficult for him to make a claim  he told us he 
was self-employed and in good health. Because he was self-employed, Ive looked very 
carefully at the circumstances under which a self-employed person could claim. And having 
done so, I dont think the conditions are onerous  it wouldve been no more difficult for Mr D 
to claim than an employed policy holder. 
Because he was self-employed, Mr D had no employee benefits that he couldve used if he 
was off work through sickness, and he told us he had no savings or other means with which to support himself  so I think the policy wouldve been useful to him if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr D has said about the sale of the PPI but these points dont 
change my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman