DRN-3740124
The complaint
Mr B complains about the service Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) provided when he 
claimed under his home emergency policy for a boiler breakdown.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the details, so Ive summarised events here.
Mr B had home emergency cover underwritten by IPA. He claimed under the policy when his 
boiler stopped working. IPA said the part needed, the fan, was no longer available. Mr B 
found that the fan was available and told IPA. It then sourced the fan and visited again to 
replace it. 
Around six weeks later, Mr Bs boiler broke again. IPA couldnt attend immediately and, 
given the busy time of year, agreed that Mr B could use his own engineer for a quicker 
repair.
Mr Bs engineer replaced the fan, but he said the one he removed wasn't new. Mr B 
complained to IPA that it mustnt have replaced his fan during the original callout. 
On investigation, IPA found the fan wasn't replaced with a new one, although it wasn't clear 
whether it was replaced with a reconditioned fan.
To resolve Mr Bs complaint, IPA offered £200 for the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced. He didnt think that went far enough and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator agreed that IPA hadnt done enough and tried to mediate the complaint. IPA 
agreed to refund Mr Bs £25 policy excess, but he remained unhappy.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mr Bs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
I wont respond to each point made, or comment on every piece of evidence  our rules dont 
require me to. Instead, Ive considered the complaint as a whole.
Having reviewed the log notes, photos of the fan, and taking into consideration Mr Bs 
recollection of the discussion with IPA, I think its more likely than not that the fan wasn't 
replaced, despite the engineer notes saying it was. This had a direct impact on Mr B 
because his boiler failed again the following month. So, the issue here is not just that IPAs 
engineer incorrectly claimed to have replaced the fan, but also the knock-on effect which 
meant Mr B experienced further boiler problems and the associated inconvenience. 
IPA must take responsibility for the actions of its agents, so that means IPA is responsible 
for not replacing Mr Bs boiler fan despite telling him it had. Thats a shortfall in service which 
caused Mr B distress and inconvenience the following month, over a cold festive period and 
with young children in the home.   
While any direct financial loss may have been limited, the impact Mr B described was the 
overall delayed repair; inconvenience caused over the festive period which couldve been 
avoided; payment of the policy excess for work not carried out; having to find his own 
engineer to carry out the fan replacement, and receiving payment for his costs only up to the 
policy limit which was less than Mr B actually paid. 
Had IPAs engineer carried out the work as expected during the first visit, all the 
inconvenience Mr B experienced couldve been avoided. If IPAs engineer couldnt resource 
a replacement fan, it couldve told Mr B at that first visit and he couldve looked for his own 
engineer then. That wouldve prevented the delays, the need for a further visit, and the 
additional inconvenience particularly over the cold, festive period. 
IPA offered to reimburse Mr B the £25 policy excess; it reimbursed £500 for the callout 
charge and fan replacement, and offered £200 by way of apology. While I agree this goes 
some way to addressing the service shortfalls, I dont think it goes far enough. 
IPA has reimbursed Mr B up to the policy limit and offered to refund his excess. I think thats 
reasonable to address the direct costs he incurred, and I cant fairly ask IPA to reimburse 
more than the policy provides for. IPA also offered £200 by way of apology. Ive thought 
carefully about this, but I think its fair that IPA pays Mr B additional compensation for 
claiming to have replaced the boiler fan. 
I can completely understand that Mr B felt let down by IPAs poor service and incorrect repair 
claims, but I must look at the overall circumstances and the impact on Mr B. While it took 
longer than it shouldve done to have his boiler repaired, whatever IPA did when it claimed to 
have replaced the fan did at least provide a working boiler for a few more weeks. That 
means the additional time Mr B was without use of it was fairly limited. 
I understand Mr B wants me to require a significant payment so that IPA feels the impact. 
But my remit is to put matters right for Mr B; its not to punish IPA for what it did. So, while I 
expect Mr B wont consider the payment enough, I wont be asking IPA to increase the 
compensation significantly. However, I cant ignore the fact that Mr B felt let down by IPA 
when he could reasonably have expected to rely on its service during a home emergency. In 
recognition of that, Im minded to require IPA to pay total compensation of £300. Thats in 
addition to a refund of £25 for the policy excess.
I said I was minded to require Inter Partner Assistance SA to:
pay Mr B £300 compensation to acknowledge the impact its mistakes had on him, 
and
reimburse the £25 policy excess, if it hasnt done so already.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
IPA accepted my provisional decision.
After first seeking clarification, Mr B asked for further consideration of the compensation 
amount. He didnt think it was enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive thought again about the inconvenience Mr B and his family 
experienced. I understand that Mr B remains unhappy about the service IPA provided and 
hes obviously still upset about the matter. And I agreed that IPA hadnt provided the 
standard of service he could reasonably have expected. However, Mr B hasnt provided any 
evidence, either in his initial complaint or in his latest submission, that persuades me a 
further increase in compensation is warranted.
To be clear, IPA offered £200 by way of apology. My decision is that IPA should increase 
that payment by £100, bringing the total to £300.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Bs 
complaint and Inter Partner Assistance SA must:
pay Mr B £300 compensation to acknowledge the impact its mistakes had on him, 
and
reimburse the £25 policy excess, if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman