DRN-1770293
 
The complaint
Mr W complains Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe SE unfairly cancelled his 
motor insurance policy.
Mr W is represented by his father for this complaint. For simplicity Ive referred to his actions 
as being those of Mr W. 
What happened
Mr W held an Aioi motor insurance policy. The terms required him to have a telematics box 
fitted to his car. This allowed Aioi to monitor various aspects of the cars use, including its 
speed and location. In late May 2019 Aioi cancelled the policy. It says the policy terms allow 
it to cancel if the insured vehicle exceeds a road speed limit by 20mph. It says this happened 
for a second time so it decided to cancel Mr Ws cover.
Mr W says he didnt speed. He feels the telematics box wasnt working properly. He also 
feels the policy shouldnt be recorded as being cancelled by Aioi. He says he requested the 
policy be cancelled after he received Aiois seven day notice of cancellation, but before it 
expired. He complains that as Aioi didnt act on his request he has to declare having had 
cover cancelled by an insurer. So its hard for him to find cover. In response to Mr Ws 
complaint Aioi said it acted fairly and in line with the policy terms.
Our Investigator felt Aioi had acted fairly. He didnt recommend it do anything differently. 
Mr W didnt accept this. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not making Aioi do 
anything differently. 
Mr Ws policy terms say Aioi can cancel his cover if he or any driver exceeds the speed limit 
by 20 mph or more. Aioi says the telematics box recorded speeding by more than 20mph in 
November 2018. It says he was warned if that happened again the policy might be 
cancelled. It says the data shows a speed 20 mph above the limit again in early May 2019. It 
says because of that it issued a seven day notice of cancellation.
Aioi says it checked the data and found it to be correct. Ive looked at it. The correct speed 
limits seem to have been used  40 mph. During both trips featuring the speeding events the 
box recorded a range of speeds  usually below or around the limit for the road travelled on. 
That indicates it was probably recording speeds reasonably accurately. On both occasions 
the data shows speeds in excess of 80mph on 40 mph roads. The roads are fairly local to 
Mr Ws registered address. 
Ive considered everything Mr W says, including about the box not being inspected. I accept 
its possible the telematics system wasnt recording correctly. But I havent seen enough to make me think thats most likely. Overall I think it probably was recording the driving 
behaviour correctly. Both of those events were more than 20 mph above the speed limit. So 
Aioi has acted in line with the terms of the policy by issuing a notice of cancellation. I think its 
decision to do so was fair and reasonable. 
Aioi issued seven days notice of cancellation as required by the policy terms. Its not clear if 
Mr W received that notice. Ive checked the letter Aioi says it sent. It seems to have the 
correct address. Aioi says it also sent an email. Mr W says he didnt receive it as it went to 
his old email address. If that is what happened its unfortunate, but its his responsibility to 
inform Aioi of any change to his correspondence details. It also seems that Mr W was sent 
text messages notifying him of the cancellation. So Aiois issued a notice of the cancellation 
in line with the policy terms.     
Mr W says he wrote, in mid-May, in response to the notice of cancellation, to request 
cancellation of the policy. Aioi says it didnt receive that letter until about 10 June 2019. It 
says that was about three or four days after Mr W first learnt it had cancelled his policy. So it 
says its unlikely he sent his cancellation request when he says he did.  
I think Aiois position on this is reasonable. And I think it probably didnt receive the letter 
until 10 June 2019. Ive listened to a couple of calls between Mr W and Aioi from early 
June 2019. On 5 June 2019 he calls to enquire about renewal. It seems its only in this call 
that he learnt the policy had been cancelled a week or so earlier. The next day there is a 
further call. Mr W doesn't mention, despite clearly understanding the impact of a record of 
cancellation by insurer, having previously written to request cancellation himself. If he had 
done its likely he would have said so during this call. But the first time he refers to his own 
cancellation letter is in a third call on 7 June 2019.
Mr W is correct when he says he isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Aioi 
has acted unfairly. Ive considered whats happened on the balance of probabilities. Having 
done so, I cant say its most likely Aiois acted unfairly or unreasonably. So Im not 
interfering with its decision to cancel his policy. And Im not making it amend any records of 
its cancellation or do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of 
Europe SE to do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman