DRN-3327303
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited. She isnt 
happy about the way it dealt with a claim under her pet insurance policy. Other companies 
have been involved in this complaint, but as Red Sands are responsible for it, Ive just 
referred to them in this decision.
What happened
Mrs S made a claim under her pet insurance policy after her pet had a few problems around 
the mouth area. Initially he was off his food and was given some anti-biotics but a few small 
lumps in the mouth were eventually identified as the cause of the problem and removed. 
When Red Sands looked into the claim it turned it down. This was because it felt the claim 
related to dental or gum treatment which was excluded under the policy. Mrs S wasnt happy 
about this, so she complained to Red Sands and then this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for her but didnt uphold her complaint. Although he 
understood why Mrs S believed the claim should be met he didnt think Red Sands had done 
anything wrong in following the terms and conditions of the policy. As Mrs S didnt agree the 
matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs S, but Ill explain why.
I can understand Mrs S position and why she feels her claim should be met. Initially the vet 
wasnt sure what the cause of her pets problem was, and anti-biotics were given but as the 
problem with the lumps on the gums didnt clear up they were removed. There was some 
concern that the lumps could have been cancerous, but fortunately it was eventually 
established this wasnt the case. 
As our investigator explained the starting point for the claim is the policy. This sets out what 
is and isnt covered and clearly says that Any dental or gum treatment isnt covered under 
the policy. I think that this was clear from the policy details that Mrs S was provided with, so I 
just need to decide if Red Sands acted fairly in relying on this when turning down the claim.
It is clear from the veterinary notes that Mrs S pet had three masses detected on gums 
which the vet suggested were the size of a pea in early September 2021. And later that 
month oral growths were removedand sent to lab for histology. And the histology report 
requested by the vet says that the oral growths that were removed were Fibromatous epulis 
of periodontal ligament origin. And having researched the condition it appears that the 
histology report is clearly referring here to growths which occur on the gums or supporting 
structures of the teeth. 
Under guidelines issued by their regulatory body, all vets are required to take the utmost 
care when writing records to ensure they are clear and accurate. It is therefore reasonable 
for an insurer to rely on the clinical notes as being a true and accurate representation of 
what was seen and heard at the time of each consultation. The clinical notes are a 
contemporaneous account of Mrs S pets clinical history. And, the clinical notes refer to the 
problem appearing above her pets teeth and refer to mouth oral growths. Based on this Im 
satisfied the treatment was connected to dental or gum treatment and I cant say Red Sands 
has acted unreasonably in saying this is a dental or gum related problem.
I know Mrs S says that Red Sands decision to decline the claim based on the policy 
exclusion is incorrect as she feels there wasnt a dental issue and that no dental work was 
carried out. And says that the removal of the growths is similar to how a growth would be 
removed elsewhere on the pets body. 
I can understand the general point being made. But the policy is clear that Red Sands say 
the exclusion covers all aspects of dental or gum treatment. And the specific condition 
outlined in the clinical notes is one of the most common types of oral masses that appears 
on a pets, such as Mrs S, gum. So, although I know Mrs S feels that dental work wasnt 
undertaken so the claim should be met but the exclusion also clearly covers gums. And it is 
clear that the growths were removed from her pets gums.
Given all of this, and despite my natural sympathy for the position Mrs S has found herself, I 
think Red Sands has acted fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions. So, Im not 
upholding this complaint.
Finally, I note that Mrs S feels that Red Sands should have paid out in relation to a potential 
issue with her pets tonsils around the time of claim. Red Sands has said that it feels any 
issue here related to the growths that started before this claim. And that position doesnt 
seem unreasonable to me, especially as I havent been provided with any further detail 
about this. However, if Mrs S was able to gain evidence from the treating vet that there was 
an issue with the tonsils and that the issue and inflammation wasnt related to the mouth 
growths then I would expect Red Sands to consider this. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman