DRN-4151411
The complaint
Mr W, joined by Miss R, complain that HSBC Bank UK Plc (HSBC) wouldnt remove Mr W 
from a joint account he held with Miss R until the overdrawn balance was settled in full 
despite being told otherwise. Mr W is unhappy he is still liable for the outstanding balance of 
the overdraft debt. 
What happened
Mr W and Miss R held a joint account with an arranged overdraft with HSBC. Mr W says he 
stopped using the account in spring 2016 due to the spending habits of Miss R. Mr W has 
told us he contacted HSBC about removing himself from the account around September 
2016. 
But in his complaint to HSBC he says this was in late August 2017. Mr W says that he called 
up telebanking and was told he could go to a branch and pay half and remove his name from 
the account. Mr W says when he went into the branch he was told he had to settle the 
account in full which he was unable to do. HSBC have no record of this.
HSBCs internal notes show that Mr W contacted it on 30 November 2016 and informed it 
that he was looking to separate from Miss R and for her to take over the account. The notes 
record that Mr W was advised to wait to see how much Miss R would be getting in benefits 
and what her outgoings were going to be before it would proceed.
HSBC said it received no further requests for the account to be put in Miss Rs sole name. 
HSBCs records show it wrote to both Mr W and Miss R at the address it held for them on its 
system and dont have any record of Mr W providing it with a change of address.
The bank statements for the account show Mr W continued to credit the account until March 
2019.
Following receipt of an IVA for Miss R, HSBC wrote to Mr W on 29 May 2019 about this, 
notifying him that the account was frozen. HSBC wrote to Mr W on 31 January 2022 advising 
that the account was overdrawn. It sent a final demand for this on 22 February advising that 
if the outstanding balance wasnt paid in full by 12 March 2022 the account would be closed 
and recovered by the repayment services. The account would be defaulted and this would 
be reported to the credit reference agencies. The account was subsequently closed to 
collections on 6 May 2022.
In October 2022 following Miss R receiving a letter from HSBC about the outstanding debt 
on the account Mr W again contacted HSBC and was advised there was an outstanding debt 
on the account of £1,375.98. Mr W explained that he and Miss R had separated in 2016 and 
at the time the debt was £900. HSBC told Mr W that he was still liable to pay the amount in 
full and given a month to see if Miss R was willing to pay. 
On 17 January 2023 Mr W spoke to someone from the HSBC repayments team and 
explained the situation. Mr W complained that he was not taken off the account. Mr W was 
advised that they could see hed made contact with HSBC, that it shouldve offered to put a 
freeze on the account and would look into it. Mr W also updated his address details. 
Following this HSBC wrote to Mr W and advised it couldnt find any evidence to support Mr 
Ws claim. 
So Mr W and Miss R brought their complaint to this service. Mr W would like a reasonable 
settlement figure and a repayment plan. Mr W doesnt think it is reasonable that he should 
pay the amount HSBC are asking as he had taken steps to settle this debt over five years 
ago. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ws concerns and reached the conclusion that there 
wasnt any evidence to show Mr W had been in touch with HSBC following his contact with it 
in November 2016 and as such HSBC had not done anything wrong in writing to Mr W at the 
address it had registered for him and didnt think HSBC couldve done anything differently. 
Mr W disagrees. Mr W says HSBC had both his mobile and email address and shouldve 
contacted him by this means. Mr W wants to know why he is responsible for the whole debt 
just because Miss R has gone through an IVA. Mr W has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided to not uphold Mr W and Miss Rs 
complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr W and Miss R have experienced and see if HSBC has 
done anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr W and Miss R back in 
the position they wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And where there is a 
dispute about what happened  such as here - Ive based my decision on what I consider 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence.
And in this case I cant say that HSBC has done anything wrong. Both sides agree that the 
account was held jointly. This means they are both equally responsible for the management 
of the account and liable for any outstanding debt. And because Miss R entered into an IVA 
the outstanding overdraft debt became the responsibility of Mr W. 
Mr W says HSBC was told over the phone he could go into branch and pay half the 
outstanding balance and it would remove him from the account  but when he visited the 
branch he was told that he had to settle the balance in full. But HSBC have no record of this. 
And Mr Ws recollection of when this happened is inconsistent (though this is 
understandable given the time that has passed). 
HSBCs internal records show that Mr W contacted it in November 2016 about removing 
himself from the account and that he was advised it was unable to proceed with this until it 
knew what Miss Rs incomings and outgoing were and that there is no further record of Mr W 
getting in touch until October 2022. 
This makes more sense to me at least, because it wouldnt be in HSBCs interest to remove 
someone from an account unless it was sure the remaining account holder could afford the 
overdraft debt. And furthermore, to assist the account holders in paying off the overdraft debt and agree a repayment plan, HSBC would need to understand what the account holders 
income and expenditure was to assess the affordability of a plan. 
But ultimately, I dont think this matters, as Ive already stated above because the account 
was jointly held that meant both parties are jointly and severally liable and HSBC are entitled 
to pursue either party for the debt. So I cant say that HSBC has done anything wrong here.
Mr W is unhappy HSBC didnt try and contact him by email or phone and that he had 
received no contact from it until Miss R gave him a letter which asked him to contact it. But 
HSBC is under no obligation to use email or phone to contact him. As Im sure Mr W is 
aware having a bank account comes with responsibilities, one of which is keeping the bank 
informed of an address to correspond with. HSBC wrote to Mr W about the status of the 
account for the address it had listed and Mr W failed to update HSBC on his change of 
address. So again, I cant say HSBC did anything wrong here. 
Mr W knew that there was an outstanding debt on the account  indeed the bank statements 
show he continued to credit the account right up to just before the account was frozen in 
2019. So I cant see on what basis he thought his name would be removed from the account 
or that he no longer would be liable for the outstanding debt.
So it follows that I do not uphold Mr W and Miss Rs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr W and Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman