DRN-2845487
The complaint
Mr A complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) dealt with his customer survey
unprofessionally. 
What happened
Mr A visited a branch of Co-op. He completed a customer survey form and made two 
suggestions. He was later approached by the advisor about his feedback about her.
Mr A complained that his survey was confidential. He made two suggestions  one was 
about the number of branches, the other was that the advisor used a green pen when 
counting money  which he thought was inefficient. When he next visited the branch, he was 
approached by the advisor about what hed said about her. He was embarrassed and upset 
by this  he thought the survey was confidential. Hed been suffering from mental health 
problems for a long time  and this made that worse. He also said the Co-op didnt take his 
complaint seriously.
In its final response, Co-op said the survey was to improve customer service  by sharing 
with their advisors what customers thought about their service, as well as gathering views on 
the bank as a whole. It was up to the discretion of managers whether contact was made with 
customers about their feedback  but they didnt expect individual advisors to discuss 
feedback about them with customers. They agreed that the advisor didnt act appropriately. 
They apologised and paid £75 compensation to Mr A. They said theyd dealt with Mr As 
complaint properly  and had kept him advised throughout while completing their 
investigations.
Mr A brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at what had happened. 
He gave two views. The first upheld Mr As complaint  the advisor shouldnt have 
approached Mr A. He could see how this made Mr A feel  as the survey was anonymous. 
So, he said Co-op should pay a further £75 compensation to Mr A. He said Co-op had 
responded to Mr As complaint within the statutory timescale of eight weeks  and therefore 
theyd dealt with Mr As complaint effectively.
Co-op disagreed. They said the survey wasnt confidential. And they then provided a 
testimony from the branch which said that the discussion about the colour of pens used was 
an informal one which took place as Mr A handed in the survey form. So, this contradicted 
Mr As version of events. Our investigator was persuaded changed his view  and said that 
the original compensation of £75 was enough.
Mr A disagreed and asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
I have looked into this complaint and taken into consideration everything that Mr A and Co-
op have said to us. When issues like this arise  its difficult to be precise about exactly what 
happened and what was said  simply because I wasnt there. And - Co-op do not have the 
CCTV available, as it is routinely deleted after a few weeks. So  I must base my judgement 
on what I think most likely happened  and this isnt an exact science.
But having done that, I take a different view to our investigator. Mr A has been firm and 
consistent in his description of what happened  that the advisor approached him on his later 
visit to the branch and explained why she used different coloured pens. I can see how that 
was very embarrassing for Mr A  as he thought the survey was confidential. Co-op have 
said to us that it wasnt confidential and that it was always going to be used to give feedback 
directly to advisors about what customers said about them. But  theres nothing on the 
survey form that says this  and I think Mr A was reasonably entitled to think that anything 
he said would be treated confidentially.
And  importantly, Co-op said in their final response  that advisors shouldnt tackle 
customers about what theyd said  this was for managers to do and at their discretion. So  
Co-op did make an error here.
Having said that, Ive also reflected on the further testimony from the branch advisor and the 
background to what happened. I can appreciate that she was trying to do the right thing  to 
explain to Mr A why she used coloured pens. In many ways, thats human nature  but 
unfortunately in this case it upset Mr A.
But  it remains that Co-op shouldnt have done what they did  and this clearly caused Mr A 
embarrassment and upset. And so  in upholding this complaint, I agree with our 
investigators first view  that a further award of compensation of £75 should be paid to Mr A 
for the distress and anxiety caused.
In doing so, I would suggest that the branch manager invites Mr A to the branch again and 
has a clear the air meeting ed can move forward and put what happened behind them.
Responses to the provisional decision: 
Mr A accepted the provisional decision and welcomed the suggestion of a meeting with the 
branch manager. Co-op also accepted my findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr A and Co-op have accepted my findings, I wont be departing from what I said in 
my provisional decision and for the reasons I gave in it. I wont specify the meeting at the 
branch as a remedy as such  I just think that this is a sensible thing to do - and both Mr A 
and Co-op have agreed to do this.  
(continued)
My final decisionI uphold this complaint. The Co-operative Bank Plc must pay compensation of £75 to Mr A  
in addition to the £75 already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman