DRN-3823142
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Key Retirement Solutions Ltd (KRS) did not consider the suitability of 
the equity release mortgage it advised her to take out.
What happened
Mrs Ms complaint was brought by her solicitor, but for simplicity, Ill refer to her submissions 
as if theyve come directly from her.
In 2017 KRS advised Mrs M to take an equity release mortgage for approximately £200,000. 
The interest rate was fixed at 5.83%, but, as it was an equity release mortgage, the interest 
rolled-up. So, it was payable on the death of the borrower or if the property was sold due to 
the need for long term care. The mortgage could be redeemed early but there was a charge 
for doing so.
Mrs M says that, following the death of her husband in 2015, she sought the advice of an 
independent financial advisor (IFA) due to her concerns about potential inheritance tax (IHT) 
liability. She says her home was worth approximately £550,000 and she had approximately 
£350,000 invested which gave an income in addition to her pension income (she was 
retired). She engaged an IFA and trusted him to assess her needs and make suitable 
recommendations  she says shed never dealt with any financial issues previously as her 
husband had done so. She says that because of her lack of experience, she felt vulnerable.
Mrs M says the IFA estimated that her IHT liability was approximately £80,000, but he never 
put anything in writing to her. He said she should consider an equity release mortgage and 
referred her to KRS for advice on that. She had two meetings with and adviser from KRS, 
the first of which she was accompanied by the IFA.  KFI recommended she take the equity 
release mortgage outlined above, gifting approximately £70,000 to each of her three adult 
children.
The IFA continued as Mrs Ms financial adviser for four years, but she says he never 
reviewed the equity release mortgage or its impact during that time. So, she engaged 
another IFA. Having reviewed her circumstances, the new IFA explained that two months 
after the advice to take the equity release mortgage legislation changed, meaning she would 
have no IHT liability based on her assets at that time. She says he told her that legislation 
would have been known to both the IFA and KFI so they would have known there was no 
need for her to take an equity release mortgage for IHT purposes. 
Mrs M says her children hadnt used the money shed gifted them and were able to give it 
back to her so she could repay the equity release mortgage. However, by that time, interest 
of approximately £52,000 had accrued and an early redemption charge of approximately 
£28,000 was payable. So, she paid an additional £80,000 to redeem her equity release 
mortgage. She says the advice to take the equity release mortgage was unsuitable because 
she had no IHT liability, had no requirement to supplement her income and her children had 
no need for the money gifted to them. So, she complained to both KRS and her IFA, though 
my decision here deals solely with her complaint about KRS.
In its final response letter dated 31 August 2021, KRS concluded it hadnt done anything 
wrong. It said its advisors provide equity release advice only and it was assumed that all 
other aspects of Mrs Ms finances were discussed with her by her IFA. It said her IFA was 
present at the first meeting and if he had any concerns about her taking an equity release 
mortgage, he would have advised her against that course of action.
KRS said Mrs Ms solicitor was required to complete a certificate to confirm hed explained 
the terms and implications of the equity release mortgage. And KRS said it would have 
expected Mrs M to ask her solicitor if she had any concerns about the advice KRS had given 
at that time. It also said its documentation tells Mrs M she should seek advice from an 
independent tax specialist if she had any queries about her inheritance tax position.
Dissatisfied with KRSs response Mrs M asked us to look into her complaint. Our investigator 
didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. She said given Mrs Ms circumstances and stated aims, the 
equity release mortgage was suitable. And it was necessary because Mrs M didnt want to 
use any of the money she had invested to gift to her children. Nor did she want to downsize 
to achieve that aim. Our investigator also thought, based on the evidence from the time of 
the sale, that the equity release mortgage was properly explained to Mrs M. Our investigator 
concluded that KRS were not responsible for Mrs M not receiving the IHT advice she asked 
her IFA for as its advice was limited to how she could release funds from her home.
Mrs M didnt agree. She said her IFA recommended the equity release mortgage and then 
arranged the meeting with KRS. And during the meeting her IFA constantly reminded her 
that she was releasing equity to reduce her tax liability. She maintains that there has been 
no financial gain to her by taking the equity release mortgage, instead it has cost her 
£80,000.
As Mrs M didnt agree, her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Mrs Ms complaint, Ive thought about whether the equity release mortgage 
recommended by KRS was suitable, given her stated aim and her circumstances. And Ive 
thought whether the evidence available indicates she was informed thoroughly about the 
product, particularly the interest that was likely to become payable.
Mrs M has said it was her IFA who told her she had an inheritance tax liability and told her 
that could be addressed by releasing equity from her home. She has brought a complaint 
about the IFA, separately from this one, so Ill not address that here. She made this 
complaint as well as the one about the IFA because it was KRS that advised about the 
equity release mortgage she agreed to take. 
In its response to Mrs M, KRS said she should have checked with her solicitor if she was 
unsure about the terms of the equity release mortgage and with an independent tax advisor 
if she had any queries about her IHT position. Id like to make it clear that I dont agree with 
that. As a layperson, Mrs M sought advice from a regulated equity release adviser. She was 
referred to KRS because it could advise on equity release products and her IFA couldnt. So, 
I think it was reasonable for Mrs K to believe she could rely on the advice given by KRS, to 
expect KRS to explain the terms of the equity release mortgage clearly, and, if making its 
recommendation to mitigate an IHT liability, to be able to accurately calculate her potential 
IHT liability.However, while I understand from Mrs Ms submissions that her IHT liability was in her 
thoughts when she approached her IFA, and she says that was the reason for the equity 
release mortgage, the evidence from the point of sale doesnt support that. To uphold Mrs 
Ms complaint on the basis that KRS sold her the product based on an incorrect IHT liability 
assumption, Id need to be persuaded that Mrs Ms IHT liability was a stated aim. As Ive 
said, I dont doubt that IHT was a concern for Mrs M. But most of the documentation from the 
time of the sale  Ive seen copies of the Key Facts document, loan offer, application form, 
equity release questionnaire and recommendation report  says Mrs M wanted to release 
funds to gift money to her children. The documentation doesnt link that aim to any concern 
about IHT liability.
Mrs M says her IFA produced very little documentation recording their discussions. Ive seen 
all the evidence available in relation to her complaint about her IFA as well as all the 
evidence available in respect of this one about KRS. Ive not seen any documentation that 
shows me Mrs M was referred to KRS because of concerns about her IHT liability. Nor have 
I seen anything to suggest that KRS was aware that Mrs M ever raised that concern with her 
IFA. Recordings of Mrs Ms actual conversations with KRS arent available, so I have no way 
to establish whether she discussed IHT directly with KRS. The documentation available 
suggests she didnt. 
As I havent seen evidence to show KRS recommended the equity release mortgage to 
reduce her IHT liability, I cant conclude its advice was unsuitable even if she had no IHT 
liability. Thats because gifting to children is a legitimate reason for releasing equity. And the 
documentation says Mrs M wanted to keep her existing savings in place to supplement her 
income, didnt want to downsize, and didnt want to make regular payments to a mortgage. 
So, to achieve her documented goal of gifting to her children, KRSs recommendation for an 
equity release mortgage wasnt unsuitable, given her circumstances. And I think KRS could 
reasonably have expected Mrs M to read the documents provided and raise a concern if the 
stated aims werent correct.
I have also thought about whether KRS explained the equity release mortgage to her, in 
particular the potential amount she would owe when she or her estate would need to repay 
the debt. As Ive said above, I think it was KRSs responsibility to explain the equity release 
product to her and not her responsibility to ensure her solicitor did so. As Ive also said, Mrs 
Ms conversations with KRS werent recorded, so Im reliant on the documentation available 
from the time to indicate what information she was given. The documents designed to inform 
Mrs M about the recommendation and the product were the key facts document, the 
recommendation report and the loan offer. So, Ive thought about what those documents told 
her.
The key facts document explains  among other aspects less relevant here:
How much Mrs M will borrow.
The interest rate (fixed for the life of the mortgage). 
Projected amounts Mrs M would owe at the end of years 1 to 20.
The cost to Mrs M of the advice.
The potential cost of early redemption (with examples provided for years 1, 5, 10, 15, 
and 19).
And the key facts document explains:
Repayment of the lifetime mortgageYou do not have to make any payments during the life of this lifetime mortgage. The 
amount owed, including each loan and all of the interest and charges due to us will 
usually be repaid from the sale of your property. This will happen when you (or if joint 
borrowers, both of you) have died or if you move home (either into long term care or 
into another property which does not meet our criteria). Any monies left over would 
be paid to you or your beneficiaries. Alternatively you can choose to repay at any 
time but in doing so you may have to pay an Early Repayment Charge as described 
in Section 13.
The recommendation report explains:
The cost to Mrs M of the service provided by KRS.
The importance of reading the key facts document.
The amount Mrs M wanted to borrow.
The recommendation report also states:
You understand that interest will be added to the loan and compounded. Due to the 
fact that interest on the loan is accruing throughout your lifetime there is no 
guarantee that there will be any value left in the property on death. Whilst you are 
aware that there is no guarantee that there will be any value left in the property for 
inheritance purposes, there is a 'No Negative Equity Guarantee' which ensures that 
the total amount repayable cannot exceed the value of your property.
The loan offer (from the lender, rather than KRS, and sent directly to Mrs M at her home 
address) shows all the same details as the key facts document. And it contains the same 
wording regarding the repayment of the lifetime mortgage  quoted above  as the key 
facts document.
I think KRS did have a duty to satisfy itself  as much as was possible  that she understood 
the nature of the equity release product and how much she would be likely to repay in 
relation to how much she was to borrow. I have no way of knowing whether it did that aside 
from the various declarations Mrs M signed to say that she did understand. But, having 
assessed the documentation  as outlined above  Im satisfied that it contained the 
pertinent information and was presented in a clear and reasonably understandable format. 
So, I think KRS did provide Mrs M with the information she needed to understand the 
essential elements of the product it recommended.
Summary
Overall, the fact that Mrs M redeemed the equity release mortgage early and her children 
were able to access the money gifted and return it to her tells me that wasnt the right 
product for her. And I have a great deal of sympathy for her because of the financial cost to 
her and how distressing that must be. But, as Ive explained, I havent seen that KRSs 
recommendation was unsuitable given Mrs Ms stated aims and her circumstances. The 
evidence available suggest KRS acted reasonably based on what it knew. And the evidence 
suggests that KRS informed Mrs M of the nature of the product and the likely costs. So, I 
dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint about KRS.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint about Key Retirement Solutions Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman