DRN-4024491
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wouldnt make a payment and have retained 
her money.
What happened
Mrs P received a credit into her account for £2,013 on 14 July 2022. It came from an account
in her name at another bank (which I will call bank A). She then tried to make a payment to a
charity for £1,975.00. Lloyds wouldnt make the payment and Mrs P then visited a branch.
The branch also declined to make the payment. During Mrs Ps visit to the branch, Lloyds
called the police and then closed her account and after contact from bank A, retained the
money.
Mrs P complained. She said Lloyds should have made the payment and she didnt have to
tell them where the money came from or where it was going. She said she wanted Lloyds to
give her the money back.
Lloyds said the payment wasnt made as it was picked up for a fraud checks. Mrs P would
not tell Lloyds where the money was from, nor why she was sending the money. They were
concerned it was part of a scam. Lloyds called the police to ask Mrs P some questions but
she wouldnt tell them anything either. Lloyds said Mrs P became abusive in the branch and
so they decided to end their banking relationship with her.
Mrs P brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Lloyds acted reasonably in
connection with the withholding of the payment as part of their fraud checks. Lloyds were
concerned that Mrs P had been coerced by a fraudster. He said Lloyds could also close Mrs
Ps account without notice if they wished - and had done so given Mrs Ps behaviour
towards staff in the branch. During our investigation, Lloyds told us theyd retained Mrs Ps
payment of £2,013. Theyd been asked to do so by bank A, who suspected there was
something suspicious about the funds received into Mrs As account with them. Our 
investigator said that wasnt fair  and said that Lloyds should release £2,013 to Mrs P, plus
interest at 8%p.a. and pay compensation of £150.
Lloyds didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at Mrs Ps complaint. Therefore, it
has come to me.
I reached a provisional decision which said:
There are three aspects here:
1. Lloyds refusal to make the payment of £2,013.
2. Lloyds decision to close Mrs Ps account.
3. Lloyds decision to retain Mrs Ps balance of £2,013.
Payment of £2,013: Lloyds, like all banks, have systems in place to check payments for
fraud before theyre made. And so, some payments are withheld pending further inquiries of
customers. Lloyds did that with Mrs Ps payment. And she then refused to say where the
payment had come from (i.e. the origin of the money), nor who the beneficiary was and why
she was making the payment. Under those circumstances, it was reasonable for Lloyds to
not make the payment.
This is included in their terms of business which say: Where we reasonably suspect a
payment instruction involves illegal or fraudulent activity, we may ask you to take further
steps to check the payment is not illegal or fraudulent or to give you time to cancel your
payment before we process it. We might do this where we think it's likely someone has
tricked you into making the payment. In these circumstances, we may: not accept your
payment instruction until you have provided confirmation that you have taken further steps
and have confirmed the payment is genuine; orWhere we (or the systems we use) still
reasonably suspect the payment instruction is fraudulent after you have carried out further
steps, we can refuse to make a payment.
Closure of Mrs Ps account: I looked at Lloyds terms of business here  and these say
Lloyds can close an account if a customer acts improperly  which Lloyds say Mrs P did  as
she was abusive to staff in the branch. The terms say: We can end this agreement (or
account, benefit or benefits package or service) without telling you in advance if we
reasonably think that:you are or may be behaving improperly. This includes being abusive
or threatening to our staff or including abusive or threatening messages in payment
instructions. Therefore, it was reasonable for Lloyds to close Mrs Ps account.
Retention of £2,013: Here, I disagree with our investigator. Bank A have asked Lloyds to
retain the funds because they suspect a possible fraud at bank A. But that is for bank A to
deal with. But -  I dont think its reasonable for Lloyds to hold onto the money on behalf of 
bank A.
And Lloyds terms say that they must return the money to bank A - but not to Mrs P. It is then
for bank A to decide how they deal with the suspected transaction. I say this because Lloyds
terms and conditions say this  they say, If we find out that a payment into your account
was made by mistake or fraud within two months of receiving it, we will: remove the amount
of the payment or stop you from accessing it; (and) tell you we will return the payment.
Therefore in this case, Lloyds should return the funds to bank A. It is then for bank A to
decide how to deal with the balances in Mrs Ps account with bank A. It would be normal for 
Lloyds to advise bank A in advance that the funds are to be returned to bank A.
Mrs P should then contact bank A to access her balances there. I cant predict how bank A
will respond to her request for payment of the money  as that is a matter for bank A to
decide, based on their inquiries. This may, or may not, result in bank A allowing Mrs P to
access the money. I know that this isnt the outcome which Mrs P was looking for, but having
reviewed what happened, Im persuaded that this is the correct course of action.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Neither Lloyds nor Mrs P made any comments.
I now need to make a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Lloyds nor Mrs P made any comments, my final decision is the same as the 
provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC must:
Return the payment of £2,013 to bank A; and advise bank A in advance of that.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman