DRN-1474332
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Illingworth McNair Limited mis-sold him a personal accident 
insurance policy.
What happened
In 2003, Illingworth McNair sold Mr G an insurance policy. Mr G says he understood it to 
provide cover for both accident and sickness.
In 2019, Mr G was unable to work for a period of time for medical reasons. He made a claim 
under the policy. However, the insurer declined the claim. It said that Mr Gs claim fell under 
the sickness section of the policy and that he had cover only for accidents.
Mr G complained to Illingworth McNair. He said hed been led to understand he had cover 
for accident and sickness.
Illingworth McNair didnt uphold the complaint. It was satisfied that when the sale was made 
Mr G had wanted only personal accident cover and that he had been adequately made 
aware that this was what he had been sold.
Mr G was unhappy at Illingworth McNairs response. He considered that its correspondence 
to him over the years had implied the cover was for both accident and sickness and that the 
policy document itself implied that this was what he held. He considered that either the policy 
had not been set up correctly or that sometime since then the sickness cover had dropped 
off the policy without him being informed. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He was satisfied 
from the evidence that Mr G had only ever been sold personal accident cover which was 
what he had wanted at the time.
Mr G didnt accept the investigators findings. The matter has therefore been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Illingworth McNair has provided evidence from the time of sale. This includes the application 
form which Mr G signed. The application is clearly for accident cover only; the section 
relating to sickness cover is left blank. Illingworth McNair has also provided a letter it 
received from Mr G at this time in which he confirms that he did not want sickness cover. Im 
satisfied from this that Mr G wanted only accident cover and that this was what he was sold.
Mr G subsequently received a policy document and a policy schedule. The policy document 
is headed Individual Personal Accident (And Sickness) Policy and is split into three 
sections. Sections one and two relate to accident cover while section three relates to 
sickness cover. I appreciate that the policy document doesnt specifically state that section 
three may not be applicable to all policyholders but it does clearly state that the document 
should be read in conjunction with the policy schedule. In Mr Gs case, his policy schedule 
refers only to the benefits available to him under the accident cover in sections one and two. 
So I consider he had no reason to assume he was also covered for sickness, particularly as 
he had only wanted, and applied for, accident cover.
Mr G has referred to some of the renewal documentation he has been sent over the years by 
Illingworth McNair which has referred to the policy as Personal accident and sickness. The 
overall policy is indeed designed to cover both accident and sickness but, as explained 
above, Mr G had applied only to take out the accident cover. So while this reference by itself 
was potentially misleading, if Mr G had read the renewal documentation as a whole, 
including his policy schedule, I dont consider he should have been misled by it.  
Mr G has also referred to the fact that the claim form he was sent by the insurer was headed 
Accident and sickness. However, this is presumably because it was the claim form it sent 
to all policyholders, even if some of them didnt have the sickness cover. I dont consider that 
this shows Mr G had sickness cover.
Mr G has referred to a claim which the insurer agreed to pay in 2015. However, Illingworth 
McNair has confirmed that the insurer settled this claim under the accident section of the 
policy. It therefore didnt mean that Mr G held sickness cover.
Finally, I note that Mr G has said if hed known he didnt have sickness cover, he would have 
arranged to take out appropriate cover before undergoing the elective surgery which has led 
to his period of incapacity. I should point out to Mr G that it is unlikely that an insurer would 
have agreed to provide cover for a period of incapacity which was known about at the time of 
the application for the policy.
In summary, while I sympathise with Mr G for the fact he has had to suffer a prolonged 
period of incapacity without receiving any income, Im satisfied that he only wanted accident 
cover and that this is what he was sold and has paid for over the years.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman