DRN-3110885
The complaint
Mr J complains that U K Insurance Limited  trading as Direct Line damaged his car when 
dealing with his insurance claim. References to Direct Line include agents acting on its 
behalf.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons. Please note, Ive read and considered everything provided in its entirety. But in 
keeping with our role for quick and informal resolution, Ill be concentrating on the crux of the 
issue. Im also not addressing Mr Js other complaint about this claim (and other surrounding 
issues), as that has been considered under a separate case: 
Mr J is unhappy that Direct Line drove his car back following his claim, rather than 
transporting it on a lorry. But Ive seen nothing to suggest Direct Line gave the 
impression it would be returned this way, nor that Mr J had requested this in 
advance. And theres nothing in the policy which specifies how the car will be 
returned. So I cant see that Direct Line did anything wrong by driving the car back.
I appreciate Mr Js concern is that driving the car back, or other actions by Direct 
Line, caused damage. For example, he says it caused further scratches around an 
existing scratch. But it seems unlikely Direct Line caused this when the area was 
clearly already damaged. Nor is there a clear difference between the photographs 
from when the car was taken in, and when it was returned.
Almost one week passed between the car being returned to Mr J, and him reporting 
the damage he thinks Direct Line caused. So there was a further opportunity for 
damage to have been caused after the car was returned. And the photographs from 
when the car was returned dont seem to show any new damage.
Mr J has also told our investigator about further damage, such as to the wheel and 
inner door, which he thinks was caused by Direct Line. But despite our investigators 
request, hes declined to provide photographs of this.
Overall, as the person making the allegation, the onus lies with Mr J to show  on the 
balance of probabilities  that Direct Line caused the damage. Weighing up his 
evidence (such as the photograph he provided and his testimony) against that from 
Direct Line (such as the damage reports and photographs from when the car came in 
and when it was returned), Im not persuaded theres enough to show Direct Line 
caused the damage.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman