DRN-2682462
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC reserved money in his account for a transaction hed 
made, denying him access to his money and reducing the available balance of his account.
What happened
Following an order he placed with an online retailer, Mr H complained that Lloyds reserved 
the money for the order in his account. He was unhappy as this denied him access to the 
money and reduced the available balance of his account.
Lloyds investigated Mr Hs complaint but said it had just followed the normal debit card 
process in recording the amount as pending until the retailer processed the transaction. It 
said it couldnt change this process and didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. Mr H wasnt happy 
with Lloyds response, so referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at Mr Hs complaint and felt Lloyds had followed the correct 
process, so didnt ask it to take any further action. Mr H disagreed, so the complaint has 
been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a cardholder uses their card to make a payment, there are several steps to the 
process. These include the retailer checking with the cardholders bank whether the payment 
will be approved and the retailer then subsequently requesting payment actually be made. 
But these steps are not always taken at the same time.
In this case, when Mr H placed his order with the online retailer, the retailer would have 
contacted Lloyds to check whether the payment for the order would be approved. As the 
payment was approved, Lloyds then recorded the payment as pending on Mr Hs account 
and reserved the money for the payment. This is standard banking practice and I think 
Lloyds has acted reasonably in following this process.
There may then have been a delay before the retailer requested that the payment was 
actually made. But when to subsequently request the payment is the decision of the retailer. 
So Lloyds cant control when a payment is requested, and I dont think it would be fair to hold 
it responsible for the time when the payment was pending.
Mr H has said the retailer shouldnt have taken payment for the order until the order was 
dispatched. But, if this is the case, this is an arrangement between Mr H and the retailer and 
so Mr H should raise it with them. I dont think it would be fair to expect Lloyds to be aware of 
this arrangement or expect it to enforce it.
Mr H also suggested that Lloyds was artificially reducing the balance of his account, to make 
it more likely that he would incur charges as a result. But Ive not seen anything to support 
that this is why Lloyds followed the process it did. And, as I explained above, I think Lloyds 
acted reasonably in following this process. Ive also not seen any suggestion that Mr H 
actually incurred any charges here. And I can only look at what actually happened, not what 
could have happened or any potential losses he could have incurred.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think Lloyds acted reasonably here. So I dont uphold this 
complaint or think Lloyds should be required to do anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman