DRN-4499878
The complaint
Ms R complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Pulse Credit Card didnt apply a payment she 
made to her credit card account.
What happened
In December 2022, Ms R says she made a payment of £650 from her bank account to her 
NewDay credit card account. Ms R says the payment wasnt applied to her account. Ms R 
says she checked with her bank and the payment had been sent. NewDay also confirmed 
receiving the payment, but she says it still hadnt credited this to her account.
Ms R said that she has serious mental health problems, and this situation has caused her no 
end of anxiety and depression.  
To put things right, Ms R says she wants the payment sent back to her bank account, her 
NewDay account closing, an apology and compensation from NewDay, as well as an 
explanation as to who stole her money. 
NewDay responded to Ms Rs complaint and upheld it in part. It explained that the payment 
had been credited to her account on 2 December 2022 and was visible on her 6 December 
2022 statement. It accepted that the letter it sent to Ms R on 21 December was poorly 
worded and that the payment had always been on her account  but it agreed it should have 
been clearer about this. It apologised about not responding to Ms Rs emails regarding her 
situation. It apologised for the things it got wrong and offered to pay Ms R £55. 
The Investigator felt that NewDay had done enough to put things right for Ms R, and so they 
felt the £55 offer was fair. 
Ms R didnt agree with the Investigators view. In summary, she didnt feel the £55 was 
enough to compensate her for what had happened. Following the receipt of a data subject 
access request (DSAR), she felt information in there showed that something had gone 
wrong and a payment had been lost. Ms R also said she was unhappy with some of the 
information provided as part of the DSAR, because it suggests that NewDay hadnt 
considered Ms Rs mental health condition.
Because an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide 
on the matter.
Since the complaint has been brought to this service, Ms R has raised further issues with 
NewDay not providing statements in a timely manner following the closure of her account 
and has commented on information she is unhappy with as part of the DSAR. I can only 
consider this complaint up until the point that NewDay has issued its final response letter. 
Any subsequent issues will need to be considered under a new complaint if Ms R wants to 
do this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint. 
Id like to express my empathy for Ms Rs situation. I can see that shes been through a very 
difficult time. In reaching my conclusion, I dont wish in any way to downplay or disregard
the situation Ms R is in. But being independent means, I have to take a step back and 
consider what both parties have said. And I have to look to see if NewDay has acted fairly 
and reasonably when dealing with Ms R. And while I accept it could have done better, I think 
the £55 it has already agreed to pay Ms R is enough to put things right in this case. And Ill 
explain why.
Looking at the evidence available to me, I dont find that the payment of £650 Ms R made to 
her NewDay account was ever lost. I can see that it was credited to her account on 2 
December 2022  reducing the balance at this point. And the payment was visible on her 
statement which was produced on 6 December 2022. It isnt clear why Ms R thought the 
payment was missing  other than I can see she said it wasnt viewable in her transactions. 
Its possible this could be because the payment had already been applied to Ms Rs 
statement at the point she checked it. But overall, I dont find that the payment had gone 
missing, or that it wasnt viewable to Ms R on her statement.
I can see Ms R has recently said she it took weeks for NewDay to tell her that the payment 
had been credited to the account, but I dont agree with this. NewDays notes suggest that it 
received an email from Ms R on 19 December 2022 about the payment. I can see it issued 
her with a letter explaining it had received the payment two days later. I can see Ms R says 
she first contacted NewDay on 14 December 2022 to complain about the missing payment 
 even if I take this earlier date into account, I dont find it took an unreasonable amount of 
time for NewDay to look into the matter and get back to Ms R to let her know the payment 
had been credited to the account.
I accept that the letter NewDay sent to Ms R on 21 December 2022 about the payment could 
have been more helpful. I agree it implies that there had been a missing payment. And it 
states that it would show on Ms Rs next statement, which isnt correct as it was already on 
her previous December statement. However, the letter does still provide reassurance that 
the payment had been received. I can also see that NewDay sent Ms R an email on 29 
December 2022 to confirm that the payment had been received and it had been credited to 
her account. So, I think NewDay has provided Ms R with the correct information about the 
payment having been received, although I accept that some of the language it used could 
have been better, which I think has understandably caused some confusion.
So, I dont find that NewDay did anything wrong in relation to the payment itself  i.e it hadnt 
lost the payment, and it had been credited to Ms Rs account when it was received. But I do 
find that NewDay could have been better at communicating with Ms R about what happened. 
If the letter that had been sent to her in December 2022 had been clearer about the 
payment, and where she could view the credit to her account, I think this would have put a 
stop to the worry caused to Ms R. And it would have meant Ms R wouldnt have had to continue to contact NewDay. But I do also have to take into account that ultimately, NewDay 
didnt do anything wrong in relation to the payment  and it was viewable on Ms Rs 
December statement. So, taking everything into account, I find the £55 NewDay has already 
offered Ms R to be enough to settle this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman