DRN-2206799
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy about a water leak following some work carried out by British Gas 
Insurance Limited under her home emergency policy.
What happened
Mrs K contacted British Gas because her hot water was too hot to use. The engineer who 
attended said that Mrs K would need a new hot water cylinder. British Gas fitted the cylinder 
about three weeks later. 
About six weeks after the cylinder was fitted, Mrs K found a pool of water on her kitchen floor 
and a split in the ceiling where the water had come through, as well as other damage. She 
contacted British Gas, who sent an engineer. When the engineer arrived, Mrs Ks grandson 
was already there trying to stop the leak, but was unable to do so. British Gas dealt with the 
leak.
A few days later, British Gas sent an engineer who found that the flow connection of the 
cylinder was faulty and needed to be replaced. About two weeks later, British Gas fitted a 
new cylinder.
Mrs K complained to British Gas about the damage to her home. British Gas didnt uphold 
the complaint and said that the damage was caused by someone other than British Gas. It 
said that a photo taken after the first cylinder was installed showed that the pipework was 
correct. However, a photo taken of the leak showed that the pipework had been twisted. As 
a result of this damage and the amount of time that had passed since the installation, British 
Gas said that it wasnt responsible for the leak.
Mrs K complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that she 
thought it was more likely than not that the leak had been ongoing for some time and so the 
damage was more likely to be the result of a gradual leak due to the cylinder installation. 
She said that British Gas should pay for the damage to Mrs Ks home.
As British Gas did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K said that due to work carried out by British Gas to fit a new cylinder, there was a leak 
that caused damage to her homes ceilings and walls. However, British Gas said it was more 
likely that the damage was caused by a third party. This was because some pipework had 
been twisted by a third party after the new cylinder was installed and that when British Gas 
attended to try and stop the leak, Mrs Ks grandson was already trying to fix it and told the 
engineers that he had made the leak worse. The issue I need to decide is whether I think 
the damage to Mrs Ks home was down to the actions of British Gas. 
The first time Mrs K contacted British Gas it was because of an issue with the water 
temperature. The engineer said the cylinder needed to be replaced. I havent seen any 
evidence that there was a water leak at this point. A couple of weeks later, a new cylinder 
was fitted. About six weeks after that, the cylinder leaked. 
British Gas provided photos of the new cylinder when it was installed, which showed that the 
pipework was straight. British Gas also provided photos of the pipework when it went to deal 
with the leak. This showed that the pipework was twisted. So, I think there is evidence that 
there was damage to the pipework and I havent seen any evidence that this was due to the 
actions of British Gas.
Ive also thought about the leak itself. I asked British Gas to provide the phone call when Mrs 
K reported the water leak, but it was unable to do so. So, I dont know how Mrs K described 
the situation to British Gas. But during Mrs Ks complaint, she said that the leak came 
through her kitchen ceiling and it was only after this that she called her grandson, who then 
tried to stop the leak from the cylinder. British Gas also said that it thought there could have 
been a small leak from the cylinder, which it said was made worse by Mrs Ks grandson. 
So, it doesnt seem to be in dispute that there was a leak from the cylinder. I also havent 
seen anything to suggest that the source of the damage to Mrs Ks home was something 
other than the cylinder. 
So, the issue is whether British Gass actions were the main cause of the damage. Im aware 
that when British Gas arrived, Mrs Ks grandson was already trying to stop the leak from the 
cylinder. I havent seen anything to suggest that he caused the leak in the first place and my 
understanding is that he was working on the cylinder because of an existing leak, which Mrs 
K said she was only aware of when it came through her kitchen ceiling. In my view, even if 
Mrs Ks grandson made the leak worse, and damaged some pipework in the process, it is 
more likely than not that there was already a significant enough leak to have caused the 
range of damage described by Mrs K. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest that 
anyone else did any work on the cylinder between British Gas installing it and the leak being 
identified. So, I think that it is more likely than not that the leak was caused by British Gas 
installation of the cylinder. Like British Gas has said, this might well have been a small leak. 
If that was the case, I think it is credible that it was a gradual leak that Mrs K only became 
aware of when it came through her kitchen ceiling.
So, thinking about the above, I uphold this complaint because I think it is more likely than not 
that the leak was the result of the cylinder installation by British Gas and that the leak 
caused the damage to Mrs Ks home.
Putting things right
I require British Gas to pay to repair the damage to Mrs Ks home. If Mrs K has already had 
the damage repaired she will either need to provide receipts to evidence the costs of doing 
so or, if it was dealt with through an insurance claim, British Gas should pay any policy 
excess that Mrs K had to pay.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require 
British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Pay to repair the damage to Mrs Ks home as a result of the leak or to pay any policy 
excess Mrs K paid if she has had it repaired under an insurance policy.
If Mrs K has already paid to repair the damage, pay 8% simple interest from the date of 
paying the invoice or insurance excess until the date British Gas Insurance Limited 
refunds the payment.
If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs K how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mrs K a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman