DRN-3143918
The complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard is holding him liable for 
payments he says he didnt make from his account
What happened
Mr J says he was made aware of cash withdrawals totalling £1,226.35 (including fees) using 
his Barclaycard when he received a text on 8 October 2020. He says he must have lost his 
card and hadnt given the PIN to anyone. He is unhappy that Barclaycard wont refund the 
payments and didnt take him seriously.
Barclaycard said it wouldnt be refunding the payments. It said that the payments were in line 
with Mr Js normal pattern of spending, there was no clear compromise for his PIN, and he 
would have seen them when he accessed his account online before he later reported this.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He set out that the first 
disputed payment using the credit card was at 04:28 on 4 October 2020 for £40. The card 
was next used on 6 October 2020 at 12:03am and payments ceased in the early hours of 8 
October 2020 before Barclaycard sent Mr J a text at 06:47am that day. He noted that the 
card had been used at a cash machine Mr J regularly used. But that Mr J said that he was 
also using his debit card when working at a different location at the time of at least some of 
the payments. Our investigator said that this wouldnt have ruled out him allowing someone 
else to use his card.
Mr J had explained that his PIN on his Barclays debit card was the same as that on his 
Barclaycard. But our investigator noted that the last time hed entered his PIN with that card 
was at 2.33pm on 2 October 2020. If as he said, hed lost his card and his PIN had been 
seen then it didnt make sense that a fraudster would have waited to make withdrawals as 
that person risked detection. Barclaycard had shown that Mr J logged into his accounts 
online at 06:49 on 7 October 2020 and by then a number of these disputed payments would 
have been visible to him. Mr J had ruled out his lodger taking the card and said she wouldnt 
have known the PIN. Mr Js point that he had paid off his Barclaycard balance in full before 
and had money in his current account to repay this new borrowing didnt affect the 
assessment here.
Mr J didnt agree and wanted a final decision. He said that if his complaint wasnt upheld he 
wanted quickly to be able to pursue this with other organisations and ultimately in court. He 
objected to any inference hed been involved in fraudulent activity. This has been affecting 
him now for over a year and giving him stress and sleepless nights. He thought an 
explanation  for the pattern of use could have been that his card was sold on by a fraudster 
before being used. He said when he logged onto online banking he only looked at a current 
account and didnt see what was happening with his Barclaycard. He was unhappy with the 
way Barclaycard had dealt with the investigation and he said had laughed at him when he 
said he would take his case to this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. Where credit is involved, as is 
the case here on credit cards, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applies, and it states that a 
consumer wouldnt be liable for an unauthorised payment unless they consented to 
someone else having possession of that card. 
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
- Did Mr J either authorise the payments on the account, or allow someone else to use 
the card as Barclaycard says?
Ive seen the payment authorisation logs for these disputed payments. And Im satisfied that 
these were authenticated when the chip on the genuine card was read and the PIN entered. 
The issue is whether Mr J consented to them.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. I 
cant know for sure how any fraudster would act. I have listened to recordings of calls Mr J 
had with the Barclaycard team about the investigation. I appreciate he didnt like the 
outcome. But in the calls Ive listened to I dont think the tone was inappropriate and I didnt 
hear that he was laughed at.
In its assessment Barclaycard says that Mr J would have seen the balance when he logged 
into this online account. Ive seen that he made transfers from a different account on 7 
October 2020. While he had the opportunity to see his Barclaycard balance Ive not been 
shown evidence that he actually viewed it. So, I dont place significant weight on that. Hed 
clearly viewed his account before phoning Barclaycard on 8 October 2020 as he knew the 
balance.
But I need to think about how someone could have obtained Mr Js card. Its possible he 
dropped it at a cash machine as he says it was in his wallet. But that wasnt the card he had 
out at the time. Or it could have been taken from him, but it is unclear why a third party 
would only have taken this card. It is also possible that his PIN was observed at the cash 
machine. But that PIN would have been used with his debit card. So, a fraudster would have 
needed correctly to guess the PINs were the same. 
As I understand it Mr J hadnt used his credit card for some time. So even someone he might 
be in contact with couldnt have seen him use it for a while. And it is unclear how that person 
would know his PIN on his debit card and know that the PIN was the same as that on his 
credit card.
The pattern of use of the card is relevant to thinking about whether an unknown third party 
had his card. Given what Ive said about the assumption needed to be made that the PIN 
was the same as his debit card Id have expected this to be checked quickly even if as Mr J 
says the plan was to sell on the card. That didnt happen until 4 October 2020 a gap of well 
over 24 hours. I also note that this use was at the same location Mr J had made the debit 
card withdrawal as were some further ones that followed. That would be very risky for a 
fraudster even if I were to accept that this person lived locally. I also think that a gap in use 
by a fraudster of the card between 4 and 5 October 2020 is unlikely. At any time, Mr J could have realised his card was missing and reported it. And there was a considerable amount 
available on the credit card. On 6 and 7 October 2020 it is though fair to say that significant 
use of the card was made including attempts to take out more than the daily cash withdrawal 
limit.
Ive noted whats been said about whether a person known to him - say his lodger - could 
have carried this out. But I also note that he said this lodger wasnt living with him at the 
time. And hes not identified anyone, especially living locally, who would have had access to 
his card and found out the PIN.
I have balanced all these factors in reaching a decision. I dont think for the reasons Ive 
given it is most likely that a third party obtained both Mr Js card and PIN without his 
knowledge. The way that could have happened is not explained and the use of the card 
doesnt support that. There is no person known to him that he thinks could have made the 
payments without his knowledge either. So, Im afraid I dont think it most likely that these 
payments were made without his consent. And this consent could have involved him 
allowing someone else to have his card. I know he will be very disappointed when I say that I 
think it was reasonable for Barclaycard to hold him responsible for the payments. If he 
doesnt accept my decision he remains free to pursue this matter including in court as hes 
said he might subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman