DRN-3387411
The complaint
Mrs L and Mr L complain about an invoice received from We Fight Any Claim Limited 
(WFAC) for work theyve carried out on a complaint for mis-sold Payment Protection 
Insurance (PPI). 
What happened
Mrs L and Mr L instructed WFAC to handle a PPI complaint against Lender C. The complaint 
was upheld and Mr L was awarded compensation of £3,347.24. WFAC then issued an 
invoice for £2,811.68 followed by a revised invoice for £1,606.67. The matter was then 
passed to a debt collector who wrote to Mrs L and Mr L claiming £2,901.68. Mrs L and Mr L 
say the invoice exceeded the compensation awarded so they complained. 
WFAC responded and explained the total compensation awarded by Lender C was 
£6,694.48 so their fees, which were 35% plus VAT, were £2,811.68. They explained theyd 
agreed to drop their fee to 24% including VAT to £1,606.67. WFAC explained this is the total 
fee owing but, as the account was held in joint names, if Mrs L and Mr L wished to pay half 
each it would be two separate payments of £803.33. WFAC said theyd made several 
attempts to contact Mrs L and Mr L but they werent able to reach them so they passed the 
matter to a debt collector. WFAC explained they dont uphold the complaint and asked Mrs L 
and Mr L to contact the debt collector to arrange payment.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs L and Mr L. During the investigation, our 
investigator found that WFAC hadnt provided Lender C with a new Letter of Authority 
(LoA) in respect of Mrs Ls part of the complaint so only Mr L was awarded £3,347.24. Our 
investigator recommended WFAC charge 24% including VAT of this amount and also pay 
compensation of £200. WFAC agreed but Mrs L and Mr L disagreed so the matter has come 
to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.      
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mrs L and Mr L. The key facts about the complaint 
arent in dispute. It appears WFAC, on receiving notification from Lender C to say theyd 
upheld Mr Ls complaint, assumed the same compensation would be awarded to Mrs L. The 
information Ive seen suggests they believed this because the letter from Lender C confirms 
this was a joint account and the £3,347.24 represents Mr Ls share of the redress only. 
WFAC therefore believed the same amount was paid to Mrs L, and their invoice of £1,606.67 
reflects the total compensation they believed was paid to Mrs L and Mr L. I can see Lender 
C have confirmed they havent paid any compensation for Mrs Ls part of the complaint as 
they didnt receive an updated LoA. So, I cant see theres any dispute here that the redress 
paid by Lender C is £3,347.24  and only to Mr L. WFAC have admitted they got things 
wrong when they issued an invoice which incorrectly factored in redress which hadnt been 
paid to Mrs L. The only issue I have to decide is whether WFACs offer to put things right is 
fair and reasonable.
I think its right that WFAC should only charge 24% including VAT of the compensation 
which has been awarded  that means the invoice should be £803.34. I note Mrs L and Mr L 
question what work WFAC have done to justify their fee and theyre understandably 
concerned that WFAC have only completed half the work in relation to this complaint as   
Mrs Ls complaint hasnt been considered. WFAC charged a percentage success fee, not a 
fee based upon the amount of work they actually undertook. This means that any work done 
on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a claim was successful, WFACs 
fee may be more or less than the value of the work they actually did. This is the risk taken by 
all parties in this type of agreement. Just because WFACs fee might be higher than the 
value of the work theyve done for Mr L, it doesnt make their fee unjustified. In addition to 
this, Ive seen that WFAC submitted the complaint and this has led to a successful outcome 
for Mr Ls part of the complaint. So, I dont think its unreasonable for them to ask for their full 
fee in respect of Mr Ls part of the complaint. I acknowledge Mrs Ls part of the complaint 
hasnt been considered by Lender C  and this appears to be due to an error by WFAC. So, 
while I understand why Mrs L and Mr L say only half the work has been completed  its for 
that reason that WFAC should limit their fees to reflect the redress which has been awarded. 
I think WFAC should also compensate Mrs L and Mr L for the upset and worry caused by 
their poor service. Theres a number of factors here that Ive taken into consideration when 
deciding what I think is a fair and reasonable level of compensation. Ill start by saying that I 
can understand why Mrs L and Mr L were confused by the invoices and became increasingly 
frustrated. Theres an invoice for £2,811.68 followed by a revised invoice for £1,606.67 and 
then back to £2,811.68 over a year later. I can see WFAC did leave a message for Mrs L 
and Mr L to let them know they can ignore the first invoice and the second invoice will reflect 
the agreed 24% charge. But, while WFAC were, I believe, trying not to worry Mrs L and Mr L 
by leaving the message, the fact is that even the second invoice wasnt correct. So, I can 
understand Mrs L and Mr Ls concern around demands being made for an amount which 
was inaccurate. That said, while Ive factored in the impact of this in my assessment of 
compensation, I cant see Mrs L and Mr L paid this amount  so I cant say theyve lost the 
opportunity of being able to use the additional sums which might otherwise have been paid.  
The matter was referred to a debt collector, and I can see this, understandably, upset and 
worried Mrs L and Mr L. I can see letters were sent by the debt collector asking for payment 
and also explaining that failure to make payment could result in legal action. So, Ive also 
taken this into consideration and factored this into my assessment of compensation. Again, I 
would add, while Im certainly not underestimating the impact of this on Mrs L and Mr L, I do 
need to take into account that no legal action took place. Taking this all into account, I think 
compensation of £200 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and reflects the upset and 
worry caused to Mrs L and Mr L.    
I do acknowledge there is a part of the PPI complaint which hasnt been considered by 
Lender C and I can see our investigator has set up a separate complaint for our service to 
look into Mrs Ls PPI complaint against Lender C. I understand Mrs L and Mr L are 
concerned about having potentially lost out on a similar amount of redress for Mrs L, but the 
outcome of the complaint against Lender C will determine whether there are any additional 
complaints to consider against WFAC. Putting things right
Ive taken the view that WFAC have made an error in issuing an invoice for an incorrect 
amount and this has caused Mrs L and Mr L worry and upset. So, WFAC should only charge 
a fee of £803.34. WFAC should also pay compensation of £200 which they can deduct from 
the outstanding fees  bringing the fee owed to £603.34.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. We Fight Any Claim Limited must take the 
steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman