DRN-3118664
The complaint
Mr H complains that Utmost Life and Pensions Limited didnt carry out adequate due 
diligence before it transferred his pension to another pension provider in 2013. He says that 
Utmost did not give him any warnings about the transfer or set out any risks. It also didnt 
stop the transfer when he requested. Mr H believes his pension has suffered significant 
losses. 
What happened
At the time of the events in question, Utmost was called Equitable Life. But as Utmost is the 
party that is responsible for answering the complaint, I will refer to Utmost throughout. 
Mr H says he was considering transferring has pension from Utmost in 2013 because it had 
lost a court case regarding its bonus payments and he wanted to transfer to a scheme that 
was not in financial trouble. It was then that he was contacted by an individual representing 
The Capital Consultancy who, after visiting him, asked him to complete a form authorising  
the release of information about his Utmost scheme. 
Mr H says that he did not believe he was agreeing to, or authorising, any transfer of his 
Utmost scheme at this time. However he was subsequently sent information by Utmost that 
confirmed his pension had been transferred. Mr H says he contacted Utmost on 19 March 
2013 to stop the transfer but was told the transfer had been made and it was too late.
Mr H was later, in 2018, informed that the pension scheme to which he had transferred had 
been taken over by Dalriada Trustees Limited. It informed him that there were no liquid funds 
held by his pension. 
Mr H complained to Utmost but it did not uphold his complaint. In summary, it said it received 
a request to transfer his pension to the VRSEB Retirement Plan (VRSEB), not Fast 
Pensions. It was not party to any transfer to Fast Pensions. It was provided with the VRSEB 
registration number and HMRC registration and therefore transferred to a legitimate pension 
scheme. So it didnt believe it had acted inappropriately given it had been requested by Mr H 
to transfer to the scheme. 
Mr H referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman and it was considered by an 
investigator. The investigator didnt believe the complaint should be upheld.
In summary, her view was that, given the circumstances, Utmost should have supplied the 
document titled Predators stalk your pension, provided by The Pensions Regulator, to Mr H 
before he transferred. However Mr H had said that he wouldnt have believed that relevant to 
his situation  so the investigator didnt believe that would have altered his decision to 
transfer. 
She didnt believe there were any other persuasive reasons why Utmost shouldnt have 
processed the transfer  given that Mr H had otherwise authorised this on the form he 
signed. She didnt believe that when Mr H had contacted Utmost to try and stop the transfer, 
Utmost could have done so  as the transfer had already been made at that point. 
Mr H didnt agree and said that it seemed a decision was being reached based on one form. 
And that he found it unusual that he had been contacted about transferring his pension 
scheme by another business, shortly after contacting Utmost. Mr H said he would like his 
complaint to be reviewed. Therefore the complaint has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the evidence I agree with the investigator that the complaint against 
Utmost should not be upheld. I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr H, especially as 
he may have suffered significant loss by the actions of other parties. But this complaint is 
about Utmost and I do not believe it has caused his loss. 
I have seen a letter dated 14 March 2013 from AC Management and Administration Limited 
to Utmost. This sets out that it encloses transfer documentation to transfer Mr Hs pension to 
VRSEB. It said it was VRSEBs administrators, and it supplied confirmation that VRSEB had 
been registered with HMRC. 
The form contained Mr Hs details and Utmost pension details as well as the following 
comment:
I write to confirm that I wish to transfer my pension funds to a new scheme
There were then details of the VRSEB scheme. Mr H signed this form. 
I appreciate that Mr H says he signed this form without appreciating that a transfer would 
take place but Utmost was not party to that and I do not believe it can be fairly held 
responsible for Mr H being misled by other parties. I do not believe Utmost would have been 
aware that Mr H was only requesting information.
In terms of the action it then took, in transferring the pension, it was acting on what it 
reasonably believed to be Mr Hs instructions. It had an obligation to act on his instructions. 
In this situation I do not believe there is reason why it shouldnt have done so or taken 
further action to establish if the transfer should go ahead. It is not my view that there were 
matters that should have caused Utmost to believe that the transfer was suspect in some 
way. As set out above, Utmost transferred to a properly registered pension scheme. It has 
confirmed that it doesnt hold any record of any other transfers to the same scheme at 
around the same time.
I agree with the investigator that Utmost ideally would have supplied the Predators stalk 
your pension document to him. But here Mr H has said that would not have affected his 
decision to transfer. So Utmosts failure to provide the booklet wouldnt have affected the 
transfer. 
As to Mr Hs contact with Utmost to try and stop the transfer, I have seen an Utmost record  
that he contacted it on 21 March 2013. However it was recorded that he was told at that 
point the transfer had been made and to contact the receiving scheme. I have not seen 
evidence that Utmost could have prevented the transfer at that point. 
I know that Mr H believes it more than just a coincidence that he was contacted by another 
business shortly after contacting Utmost about his pension. But I have not seen any 
evidence that Utmost was involved in that. My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint or make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022. 
David Bird
Ombudsman