DRN-2231506
The complaint
Mr D complains that he completed a refer a friend application for a switching incentive with
Nationwide Building Society. He said his friend got the incentive, but he didnt. He wants
Nationwide to pay him the £100 hes due under the incentive scheme.
What happened
Mr D completed an application for Nationwides refer a friend offer. He has an account with
Nationwide, and if he recommends someone else who opens an account with Nationwide
within a set period, both he and his friend get £100. Mr D recommended someone, but
Nationwide said the account wasnt opened in time. Mr D said it shouldve been, and
Nationwide was relying on a delay in the account switching service to avoid paying him.
Nationwide said that Mr Ds friend had just switched too late. So Mr D wasnt eligible for the
payment. Mr Ds friend had received £100, but that was paid as part of a different incentive
offer. It said that Mr Ds friend didnt request the switch on the date the account was opened,
and it said that a switch is guaranteed to be completed within 7 working days.
Mr D said his friend had completed part 2 of the offer on 31 October 2018. And Nationwide
confirmed that the switch was in progress on 1 November 2018, which was 6 days inside the
deadline. But the switch wasnt completed until 28 November, and wasnt confirmed with a
welcome letter until 6 December. So Mr D thought he either had qualified, or wouldve
qualified if Nationwide hadnt delayed the opening of his friends account.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He said that the timings
Nationwide had shown us suggested the account shouldve been opened within the
qualifying time period. Nationwide hadnt explained what had caused the delay. And it had
paid Mr Ds friend the money from the offer. So our investigator thought that Nationwide
should pay Mr D too.
Our investigator also said that the service Nationwide gave was poor. He noted in particular
that Nationwide had given Mr D different reasons why he didnt get any payment under the
offer. But none of the reasons had been explained fully to provide any sort of understanding
or closure to the situation. So he said Nationwide should pay Mr D £100 from the offer, plus
£100 more for the distress and inconvenience it had caused.
Nationwide failed to respond to our investigator so this case was passed to me for a final
decision
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Id like to start by saying that I agree with the second point our investigator made, 
which is that Nationwide has done a very poor job of explaining to Mr D why he didnt 
qualify for this offer. And for that reason, I agree that Nationwide should pay Mr D 
£100 for poor service. Ive taken account of the fact that Nationwide is limited in what 
it can tell Mr D about what his friend did, but I still think that Mr D shouldnt have had 
to progress a complaint to our service to receive an explanation.
But I dont think that Nationwide has to pay Mr D the £100 from the refer a friend 
offer. Thats because on the facts Ive seen, he wasnt going to be entitled to it.
Mr Ds friend has told Mr D he applied to switch on 31 October. Nationwide says that 
the account was opened on 1 November. I dont think the difference between these 
dates matters for current purposes, and Ill use Mr Ds slightly earlier date, to give 
him the benefit of the doubt.
Mr D and Nationwide appear to have agreed that Mr Ds friend had until 7 November 
to complete the offer. That means that a form has to be completed, and the account 
switch must also be completed, by then. But both Nationwides promotional materials 
about account switching, and independent online information provided by the account 
switching service itself, say that customers must allow 7 working days for an account 
switch. So if Mr Ds friend opened his account, and requested the switch, on 31 
October, as Mr D said, then the account switch wouldnt be completed until 7 working 
days later, which was 9 November. And that means Mr D wouldnt have qualified for 
the refer a friend payment, even if the switch hadnt been delayed. He was always 
going to be just too late.
Mr D says his friend got the payment, so he should too. But Nationwide has told us it 
paid some money to his friend under a different switching scheme. It wasnt a refer a 
friend payment. So I dont think this means Mr D should get the refer a friend 
payment either. 
I think a payment of £100 for poor service from Nationwide would provide a fair and
reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Nationwide didnt reply. Mr D contacted us about the payment his friend received. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D said that he firmly believed Nationwide had paid £100 to his friend under the refer a 
friend offer. He said that his friends statement was noted transfer from switch offer and his 
friend didnt previously have an account with Nationwide. So Mr D couldnt see how the 
payment could relate to any other offer. 
Nationwide has told us that at the time Mr Ds friend opened this account, it was also running 
a different switching offer then, and Mr Ds friend qualified for that. I set out in my provisional 
decision that I thought thats why Mr Ds friend got £100. And I still think that. 
But even if that wasnt right, and Nationwide had mistakenly paid Mr Ds friend under the 
refer a friend offer, that wouldnt mean that I would say Nationwide had to pay Mr D too. 
Just because Nationwide makes a mistake that benefits one person, doesnt mean it has to 
deliberately make a payment to someone else who isnt entitled either. And, as Ive 
explained, Mr D wasnt entitled to benefit from this offer, because his friend submitted the 
switch form too late. 
I havent changed my mind. So Ill now make the award I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society must pay Mr D £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman