DRN-2486867
The complaint
Mr E complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) was misrepresented. He was told it was compliant with 
the Ultra Low Emissions Zone but later discovered it wasnt. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint BMWFS, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr E acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should not have been 
misrepresented to him. So, if Mr E was told something that was not true and that led him to 
enter into a finance agreement he would not otherwise have entered into, Id think BMWFS 
were responsible and would ask them to take some further action.
I am persuaded that there has been a misrepresentation. I think its most likely that Mr E was 
led to believe that the car he was financing was ULEZ compliant.
I say that because:
Mr E has provided evidence of the training he received, in the spring of 2019, about 
driving in London. Its clear he was therefore aware of the costs and boundaries that 
would apply if his car wasnt ULEZ compliant. Given the expense involved if his car 
wasnt compliant I think its likely he would ask the dealership for confirmation the car 
he was considering was;
as soon as Mr E became aware ULEZ charges would be incurred he contacted the 
dealership to see what could be done. That seems consistent with his assertion that 
he was not expecting any charges;
Ive listened to the call he had with the dealership on 3 January 2020. Its clear Mr E 
was surprised to be facing ULEZ charges and wanted a certificate of compliance 
from the dealership. I think that suggests he expected one to be available and I think 
it supports Mr Es assertion that he was told the car would meet the ULEZ standard; 
It seems to make little sense for Mr E to have sourced a car that didnt meet ULEZ 
standards. He had clearly been made aware of the requirements in his training; there doesnt 
appear to have been any change that would mean he would no longer need to travel through 
the zone and hes now taken the car off the road which I think further demonstrates that he 
didnt want a car that wasnt compliant.
On balance, I think there is sufficient evidence to suggest this car was therefore 
misrepresented.   
Putting things right
BMWFS should therefore end the agreement and collect the car from Mr E. Theyll need to 
refund any deposit that was paid and to add interest to that refund as Mr E has been 
deprived of that money.
I think its clear Mr E has been inconvenienced by these matters and it would have been 
distressing to have had to escalate his complaint to this service when I think there had been 
sufficient evidence provided to BMWFS to support his claim. Mr E has explained that hes 
had to take public transport to get to work on occasion or take alternative routes. In those 
circumstances I agree that £100 compensation should be paid.
Its only fair that Mr E pays for the use hes had from the car. The investigator suggested that 
BMWFS should refund the instalments he had paid towards the finance agreement between 
March and August 2020 to cover his loss of use. 
I asked Mr E about the use hes had from the car. He explained that the current mileage is 
26,164 which means hes only completed 8,416 miles in the car in the 17 months or so since 
he took possession of it. The investigators suggestion that payments are refunded from and 
including March 2020 to November 2020 therefore seems proportionate as Mr Es mileage 
has been lower than average. Mr E should not be held accountable for paying any 
instalments after the date of this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
end the finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr E;
refund any deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement;
refund monthly payments from and including March to August 2020 and any 
instalments made after the date of this decision;
pay Mr E £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes been 
caused;
remove any adverse information relating to this issue from Mr Es credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman