DRN-2954093
The complaint
Mr M complained about how Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with his claim under his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ms car was damaged in an accident after he swerved to avoid an object on a motorway. 
It was unknown how the object got there or who was responsible for it. Aviva decided his car 
was uneconomical to repair and paid him its value. But Mr M was unhappy that this made his 
insurance premiums go up significantly, and that Aviva recorded the incident as fault on his 
insurance record and disallowed his no claims discount (NCD). He didnt think he should be 
penalised financially for something that wasnt his fault. He said that, because his car 
insurance premiums would go up, he had to use public transport or taxis for his work 
commute and the school run and this was inconvenient. 
The investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Aviva hadnt acted unfairly and had followed normal insurance processes. Mr M didnt agree 
and so his case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator has explained to Mr M, its not this services role to decide who was at 
fault in an accident, as that is a matter for the courts. Nor is it our role to require businesses 
to change their internal policies or procedures. Thats the role of the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority, and I see that Mr M intends to contact them. Our role is to consider 
whether a business has acted in line with their policy terms, and whether they reached their 
decision in a fair and reasonable way when they exercised their discretion under Mr Ms 
policy to settle his claim without doing more to identify and pursue whoever had left the 
object.
Mr M said that Aviva had failed to get CCTV footage which he believed would have shown 
the third party who was responsible for the object being on the motorway. Aviva werent able 
to get this, but I dont think its fair to assume that such footage would definitely have 
identified the third-party vehicle the object came from. And, as Aviva explained to Mr M, 
even if they had managed to identify the third party, theyd still have to prove that the third 
party was negligent, and that the negligence had caused Mr Ms accident. Aviva didnt think 
theyd be able to do that, and Mr Ms policy does allow them discretion to decide how to 
proceed, as is normal in most motor insurance policies. I think that in these circumstances it 
was reasonable for Aviva not to try to do more to track down and identify and pursue an 
unknown third party. 
Aviva also explained to Mr M that, because there was no identifiable third party or their 
insurer from whom Aviva could recover their costs in paying his claim, the standard industry 
practice is for a fault claim to be recorded against the policyholder who made the claim. Mr 
M felt that this business practice was unfair, and they should change it. But this is in line with 
standard insurance practice, and as Ive explained above, its not our role to tell insurers to 
change that. And Mr M did make a successful claim under his policy, and Aviva did pay his 
claim, so I dont think it was wrong for his NCD to be affected.
Mr Ms premiums were likely to go up too because any claim on a policy, again even if the 
incident wasnt the policyholders fault, can cause a premium increase at renewal. This is 
because any claim affects the insurers decision as to the risk of insuring the policyholder. 
Thats not something that we become involved in, as its a matter for the insurers 
commercial judgment. 
I can see its frustrating for Mr M, and I do think that its unfortunate that this situation means 
that he is out of pocket. But I dont think that its because Aviva have acted unreasonably, 
and so I dont require them to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons, Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
