DRN-3370019
The complaint
Miss I complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) lent her a personal loan 
that was unaffordable.
What happened
In September 2015 Miss I applied online for a Halifax personal loan of £2,500. Halifax 
agreed to the loan, which was for a term of 36 months with monthly repayments of £101.11. 
After April 2018, Miss I began falling into arrears and contacted a debt support organisation. 
In August 2018 her Halifax loan account was closed and the balance was cleared.
Miss I complained to Halifax in 2021 that it hadnt checked the loan was affordable for her. 
Halifax said that when Miss I applied for the loan, it considered the income and housing 
costs information she gave in her loan application, as well as information it already held 
about how shed managed her existing Halifax accounts. Halifax said it also used credit 
reference agency (CRA) data to estimate Miss Is monthly minimum repayments for existing 
debt, and Office for National Statistics (ONS) data to estimate her living costs. Halifax said 
Miss Is application had passed its automated checks and the loan was affordable.
Unhappy, Miss I came to our Service. She said when she applied for this loan, she was 
vulnerable because of her mental health, existing debt, and major life events. Her income 
was low and mostly taken up with repaying existing debt, and her outgoings were higher 
than Halifax had accounted for. Miss I said Halifax should have done proportionate 
affordability checks, and there hadnt been a reasonable prospect of her repaying the loan 
without undue difficulty, given the high monthly repayments and loan term. Miss I said she 
could only initially make the repayments because she borrowed from friends and payday 
lenders. And this loan increased her overall indebtedness which affected her mental health. 
Halifax told us that because it was more than six year since Miss Is loan application, it no 
longer held copies of the CRA and ONS data it had obtained in 2015. But it provided copies 
of Miss Is Halifax current account statements from the months before her 2015 loan 
application.
Our Investigator didnt uphold Miss Is complaint. He thought the available information didnt 
show the loan was unaffordable or that Halifax had lent irresponsibly to Miss I.
Miss I disagreed, saying her lending history and Halifax bank account statements from the 
time of the loan showed the loan was unaffordable for her. Miss I provided tables setting out 
her financial situation at the time she took the loan. In summary, Miss I said:
Her unsecured debt totalled £7,672.30, with £5,000 of that owed to a separate credit 
card lender shed been over her agreed credit limit with for six months prior to the loan 
application. 
Her average monthly debt repayments totalled £1,034.46, including an average of £700 
repaid to the credit card lender for each of the three months prior to the loan application. 
Her average monthly outgoings totalled £786.87, including expenses of £571.87 for rent, 
bills and food, and expenses of £195 for clothes and socialising. 
She therefore only had between £27 and £53 left over each month. 
CRA information would have showed her credit card and rent were in arrears. And had 
Halifax looked closely at her Halifax current account statements, it would have asked 
about her outgoings and she would have said she was repaying other people, including 
friends. 
She had some one-off car expenses totalling £390 in the months prior to her loan 
application. 
Shed struggled to track and control her finances.  
Our Investigator didnt change his view. He thought Miss Is further information included 
spending that wouldnt be considered essential or predictable, and that while Miss I may 
have repaid an average of £700 to her credit card lender, it was the minimum monthly 
repayment that would be considered as essential, not anything over that which Miss I had 
herself chosen to pay. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint came to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Miss I says she was very vulnerable when she took out the loan, because of 
her mental health, major life events and existing debt. Im very sorry to hear this. But Ive not 
seen anything that makes me think Miss I had told Halifax about any of these things by the 
time of her 2015 loan application. So, it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Halifax to consider 
something it hadnt been told. 
Broadly speaking, when a business is lending its required to carry out checks which are 
reasonable and proportionate to the amount being lent. And it should show it considered that 
the borrower wouldve been able to sustainably repay the credit provided, without causing 
undue difficulty and without having to borrow further to meet other financial commitments. 
Sustainably repay means the borrower should be able to repay the full amount of credit 
within a reasonable time.
There isnt a set list of what checks are proportionate. Halifax says it checked Miss Is loan 
application, CRA data, ONS data, and information it held about her existing Halifax 
accounts. Im satisfied that was proportionate here, in relation to the amount and term of the 
Halifax loan.
The loan application Miss I completed said she was employed, her monthly income was 
£1,200, her monthly housing and other commitments totalled £100, and that the loan was for 
a car. Miss I suggests Halifax should have scrutinised her monthly Halifax current account 
statements and asked her questions about her spending. But Halifax is entitled to rely on 
what Miss I said in her application form. And as I say, Halifax only needed to carry out 
proportionate checks, and I dont think it would be proportionate for Halifax to scrutinise the 
items on Miss Is monthly statements. 
Miss I says her CRA data would have showed her existing debt. It's unfortunate, although 
understandable, that Halifax no longer holds either the CRA or ONS data it obtained in 2015. 
I note our Investigator asked Miss I for a copy of her credit record from around that time, but 
this wasnt something Miss I provided. So the evidence here is somewhat limited.
However, Miss I has provided information about her finances at the time of the loan, which 
she says she drew from her bank statements and lending history. She highlights that her 
average monthly debt repayments meant she had only between £27 and £53 of disposable income each month. But I note that Miss I includes in her average monthly outgoings a total 
of £195 for clothes and socialising, which I think its reasonable to say could fairly be 
considered as at least partially disposable income. 
The outgoings Miss I has set out also include an average monthly repayment of £700 to a 
separate credit card lender. Given that Miss I also said her total debt with that credit card 
lender is £5,000, I think its more likely than not that the average monthly repayments of 
£700 were an amount Miss I chose to pay, and the minimum monthly repayments she had to 
pay would be significantly less. So based on Miss Is loan application and the information 
Miss I has recently provided regarding her financial situation and outgoings in 2015, Im 
satisfied this loan was affordable at that time. 
I acknowledge Miss I says she was only able to keep up the Halifax loan repayments for as 
long as she did because she was borrowing from friends and payday lenders. Ive 
considered Miss Is Halifax current accounts statements from the three months prior to the 
loan application, and Im satisfied theres nothing in those statements that suggest the 
Halifax loan wasnt affordable for Miss I at that time. 
Halifaxs contact notes show that in April 2018 Miss I told Halifax her circumstances had 
changed, as shed separated from her partner and been made redundant, with her new job 
paying less. Miss I also told Halifax she was talking to a debt support organisation. So it may 
be that Miss Is circumstances changed after she took out this loan and she went on to have 
financial difficulties. But Im not persuaded that Miss Is financial difficulties were caused 
because this loan was unaffordable. And I dont think Halifax could reasonably have 
foreseen Miss Is change in circumstances. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Halifax carried out proportionate checks and 
made a fair lending decision when it agreed the 2015 loan. Therefore, Im not asking it to do 
anything further here, though I realise this will be a great disappointment to Miss I.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman