DRN-3480675
Complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) registered a fraud prevention marker 
against him.
Background
In January 2021, Mr G received a payment of £300 into his account. The funds were 
immediately exited from Mr Gs account through a cash machine withdrawal and an account 
transfer. 
Monzo subsequently received a notification from the third-party bank responsible for sending 
the payment to Mr Gs account stating the payee of the funds had reported being a victim of 
fraud. Monzo reviewed Mr Gs account and as a result of its investigation, it decided to close 
Mr Gs account and record a fraud prevention marker.
After learning of the fraud prevention marker, Mr G complained that this was applied unfairly. 
Monzo looked at Mr Gs complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr G remained dissatisfied he 
referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Gs concerns. She didnt think that Monzo had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr G unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr G disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Monzo has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility 
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it 
isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr G is guilty of fraud or a financial 
crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Monzo must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Gs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Monzo also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr G was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr G allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Gs complaint, I need to decide whether I think Monzo had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Gs account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Monzo did have enough 
to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr Gs 
account in January 2021, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr G was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Mr G says the fraudulent funds entered his account without his knowledge. Hes said he 
received a call, which he, at the time at least, believed to be from someone at Monzo, asking 
for his account details. As he believed the call was from Monzo he provided the requested 
details. Mr G goes on to say that he noticed funds going into his account a couple of days 
later, which he knew werent his. And before he knew anything his account was closed and 
the fraud maker applied. During the course of Monzos investigation of his complaint, Mr G 
also told Monzo that he hadnt given anyone access to his account, or his card and Personal 
Identification Number (PIN).   
Ive thought about what Mr G his said. But I find his version of events to be implausible for a 
number of reasons. Firstly, the date Mr G has said he was called by Monzo and asked for 
his account details was after the funds in question had already been transferred into his 
account. Secondly, even if I were to accept that Mr G may have mixed up the dates and the 
call where he provided his account details actually took place before the £300 arrived in his 
account, this phone call doesnt explain how the funds exited Mr Gs account.
I say this because most of the funds were withdrawn at a cash machine with Mr Gs card and 
PIN. And I dont see how someone who simply spoke to Mr G on the phone would have 
been able to obtain Mr Gs card and PIN  especially as Mr G has said that he never shared 
them with anyone. Finally, the remainder of the funds were transferred out of Mr Gs account 
using the same mobile phone device Mr G had been using since his account was opened. I 
cant see how an opportunistic fraudster who merely contacted Mr G over the phone would 
have been able to access Mr Gs mobile phone either. 
So the way the fraudulent funds exited Mr Gs account suggests that he either moved the 
funds on himself, or that he co-operated with any party that arranged for the funds to enter 
his account in the first place. Either way the available evidence here does suggest it is more 
likely than not that Mr G played an active part in the activity which took place on his account.  
Im afraid the implausibility of Mr Gs version of events coupled with Mr G being unable to 
provide anything at all to corroborate what he says means that I cant reasonably conclude 
he was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I think its more likely than not he was 
complicit in his account receiving fraudulent funds. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Monzo did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Gs account. And it was also reasonably entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Mr G was complicit in this. As this is 
the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Monzo to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did. And Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr G. But even taking into account Mr Gs age 
and the impact he says the marker is having on him, I cant ignore the fact that he appears to 
have been complicit in fraudulent activity. So I hope that Mr G will understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. Furthermore, 
Mr G might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as he applies 
for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman