DRN-3129520
Complaint
Mrs S has complained about the overdraft charges Barclays UK Bank Plc (Barclays) 
applied to her current account. Shes said Barclays applied charges which caused her 
financial difficulty.
Background
Mrs S complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that Barclays had 
done anything wrong as Barclays didnt have reason to suspect she may have been in 
financial difficulty. So she didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mrs S disagreed with 
the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs S
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Barclays charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate 
in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Barclays charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mrs S if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Mrs S 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been
aware Mrs S was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were
instances where Barclays didnt treat Mrs S fairly and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where Barclays continued 
charging Mrs S even though it ought to have known she was in financial difficulty or it ought 
to have realised this was the case. Ive also looked through Mrs S statements throughout 
the period concerned I cant see that Barclays ought to have been aware that Mrs S might 
have been struggling during the period weve looked at. 
Its fair to say that Mrs S did have returned payments on occasions. But this happened 
sporadically. And while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mrs S 
expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual 
and discretionary transactions account going from the account. Equally I think that it was   
Mrs S spending rather than the charges which were responsible for her overdrawn position. 
So Im not persuaded by the argument she was charged twice.
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mrs S wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves 
which ought to have alerted Barclays to potential financial difficulty prior to Mrs S notifying it 
of this. So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Mrs S, I 
dont think that it was unreasonable for Barclays to have proceeded adding the charges that 
it did. And I dont think Barclays unfairly charged Mrs S in circumstances where it ought to 
have realised that she may have been experiencing financial difficulty.
Ive seen what Mrs S has said about her financial position. And Im sorry to hear about her 
recent difficulties. But I note that Barclays has agreed a way for her to pay less in charges 
going forward. Im satisfied that this was an appropriate initial response to Mrs S contact. As 
this is the case and bearing in mind what Ive already said about the earlier charges, I dont 
think that Barclays needs to refund any interest, fees and charges and Im not upholding  
Mrs S complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mrs S  especially as she has quite rightly 
pointed out that shes been waiting sometime for an answer from us. But I hope shell 
understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman