DRN-2243563
The complaint
Miss M, represented by Mr M, says that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) unfairly 
refused to pay a claim she made on her motor insurance policy, because it believed that her 
car was stolen as a result of deception. Miss M also complains that RSA did offer to pay the 
claim but then withdrew the offer, and that the whole process took too long.
What happened
Miss M noticed a problem with her car. Mr M took it to the main dealership for her, but the 
price quoted for repairs was very high. Mr M did some research on the internet and found 
another repair company, which I will call company R, a considerable distance away. He 
found some positive reviews about company R online. Mr M called company R and spoke to 
a man I will call S. S said he could repair the car for a great deal less than the main 
dealership had quoted. Mr M agreed to this and paid half the amount quoted for the repairs 
via a bank transfer. The car was collected by an unmarked recovery vehicle driven by a man 
who showed no ID to Mr M. 
Mr M sent several emails to S asking for updates. S replied each time, and the telephone 
number given was the same as before, but the company name was different. I will call this 
new company, company SE. The address given for company SE was a long distance away 
from the address given for company R.
Mr M then received an email from S saying that the damage to the car was worse than 
anticipated and asking for a further payment. The bank details given for this payment to 
company SE were the same as the bank details for company R. Mr M and Miss M became 
suspicious and did not pay anything further. Mr M told S not to do any further work on the 
car.
Mr M says he reported the matter to the police, but was told it was a civil matter not a crime. 
He found a group on social media where a lot of other people said very similar things had 
happened to them. Mr M also found out that the people apparently behind the scam were 
being investigated by the police. Mr M says he checked the addresses he had been given for 
company R and company SE and found that there were not in fact companies with these 
names at those addresses. 
Mr M contacted S and asked for the car back. He was told he could collect it on payment of 
an outstanding amount. S gave Mr M an address where he could collect the car, which was 
different from the addresses he had been given for company R and company SE. Mr M says 
he went to this address more than once, but the car was not there.
Miss M made a claim for the loss of the car to RSA. She was offered a settlement figure 
which she accepted, but RSA then withdrew the offer, saying the car was stolen by 
deception, which was excluded by her policy. Miss M complained to RSA. RSA accepted 
that there had been some shortfalls in its customer service and offered her £150 in 
recognition of this, but did not change its decision about her claim. 
Miss M complained to us, and her complaint was looked at by one of our investigators. The 
investigator did not uphold her complaint. He felt that RSA had shown that the theft was by 
deception. He said that Miss M and Mr M could have taken more steps to prevent it. So he 
said it was fair for RSA to rely on the exclusion clause to refuse the claim. He felt RSA had 
caused some delay and distress to Miss M. But he felt RSA had done enough to recognise 
that by offering her £150. So he didnt recommend it pay her any extra. Miss M did not 
agree, so the complaint has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 RSA is relying on this clause in Miss Ms policy 
What is not coveredLoss or damage caused by deception.
Firstly I need to consider whether RSA has shown that the exclusion applies  was this in 
fact theft by deception? RSA carried out an investigation into the circumstances of the theft. 
The investigator spoke with Miss M and Mr M. Mr M gave him copies of emails between 
himself and S, and showed him the information he had gathered about companies R and SE 
and the other people who had been victims of the same scam. Having read the investigators 
report and the other evidence, I think on balance that there was a criminal scheme in 
operation here, and so I believe RSA was fair in saying Miss M was deceived into voluntarily 
handing over the car.
Mr M says that the theft of the car and the deception were separate events  the deception 
was an attempt to get more money from him for the repairs, and the car could have been 
taken to the pick-up point and then stolen from there. However he has no evidence that the 
car was ever taken to the pick-up point. In any event, he says he was told that the engine 
had been removed, so it seems unlikely that a third party could have stolen it. Mr M says that 
he was able to find a number of other people who had cars stolen in exactly the same 
circumstances. I therefore believe that the theft of the car and the initial deception were part 
of the same event.
So on balance I do believe that the car was stolen by deception. But in some circumstances 
where there has been deception, this service feels it would be unfair for insurers to refuse 
the claim. So Ive considered if thats the case here.
Mr M made arrangements for the car to be collected by a repairer he did not have personal 
knowledge of, who gave an address a significant distance away. He said he was 
subsequently able to discover that the address given for the company was not genuine, and 
that a scam along these lines had been operating for a number of years. Mr M paid half the 
estimated cost of the repair up front and gave the car and a key to a man driving a plain 
recovery vehicle, without asking for any ID. Although he did find some good reviews about 
company R online, Mr M accepts with hindsight that he could have made more enquiries 
before handing the car over. I agree he could have taken more steps to ensure he was 
dealing with a genuine repairer.
Mr M says that the car was not his so he couldnt have voluntarily parted with it and the 
exclusion could not apply. I dont think it makes a difference who handed the car over, whats 
important is whether deception was involved and whether reasonable steps were taken to 
prevent it.Mr M suggests that the policy was mis-sold as Miss M was not aware of the exclusion. This 
is a common clause in car insurance policies, so I think it unlikely that Miss M could have got 
cover from a different insurer without a similar clause. I also think it is unlikely that Miss M 
and Mr M would have acted any differently in handing over the car even if RSA had drawn 
the clause to her attention during the sale, as at the time they believed the repairer was 
genuine. So I dont think the policy was mis-sold, as highlighting the clause would not have 
made any difference to what happened.
 
Mr M has provided part of a document which he says shows that another insurer decided 
that an exactly similar claim was not theft by deception. However, it is not clear what the full 
circumstances of the other claim were, or how that insurer made its decision. I have seen 
RSAs investigation and I think it was thorough. In any event, different insurers make their 
own decisions on the individual circumstances of each case, as does this service, and I can 
only look at the circumstances of Miss Ms claim. 
Mr M has also complained about the offer that was made to Miss M and then withdrawn. He 
also complained about the length of time it took to decide the claim. RSA carried out an 
investigation into the circumstances of this complex claim, and also had to look into a further 
issue where Miss M hadnt provided it with relevant information. It took approximately four 
months to decide that the claim could not be paid. I think it was unfortunate that RSA made 
the offer before completing its investigation, and I can see how Mr M and Miss M found that 
frustrating and upsetting. However, I can see that RSA kept in regular contact with Miss M 
during the investigation, and explained its mistake. RSA has also apologised to Miss M for 
the time it took to decide the claim and for the error in making the offer. It has offered to pay 
Miss M £150 in recognition of this, and I think that was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman