DRN-3876792
The complaint
Mr W complains that Scottish Equitable Plc, trading as AEGON (AEGON) didnt provide him 
with the information he needed about his investments and he lost out.
What happened
Mr W said he had a number of complaints.
Information 
He asked for information about his fund several times. In early February he was told 
to speak to an IFA who suggested he get the information from AEGON without cost. 
He asked again on 19 February and chased on 18 February and 21 February. He 
didnt get what he wanted. He had been extremely worried and stressed about such 
an important issue. The stress of waiting for the information had increased his 
anxiety and stress and he felt forced to make a decision despite lack of information. 
Key Information Document - KID on Website
When he transferred to cash on the weekend of 5/6 March he had to tick to say he 
had read the key information document but wasnt able to access it. He was initially 
told it was his browser but it then became clear that there was a problem 
downloading information.
Website
He found the website hard to understand. He also couldnt get assistance while 
online as he couldnt log in. He felt he was going around in circles.
Declaration 
He was required to sign a declaration to confirm agreement to the terms and 
conditions that were 78 pages long. He was notified information had been added to 
his account after he made the switch but could not access it.
Fund pricing
He was told in a text char the price was set at 4pm and locked until the next day. 
When he completed the  switch on a call he was told the price was what he could see 
on screen, but it seemed that was not the case. 
He felt there had been a catalogue of misleading and misinformation and poor 
standard of service. He felt treated unfairly with poor service and that he had suffered 
financial loss He was beside himself with worry, waking up in the night wondering 
how he was going to manage his retirement. 
AEGON said Mr W complained that he had problems with its website, hadnt dealt with his 
complaint and hadnt given him fund information. He had been given incorrect information 
about the unit price and the price he would achieve from his switch. It agreed that its service 
was not at the standard it would expect and by way of apology said it would send £800. 
It said Mr W emailed n 2 February 2022 about the drop in value in his fund. He said he 
thought he was in a low-risk fund which should have protected the plan from market 
instability. The email was logged as a complaint. On 9 February it responded in general 
terms without details of the funds or their performance. Mr W then followed up with a request 
for factual information about his funds but it was never picked up by AEGON. Mr W chased 
on 18 February and it responded on 23 February 2022 but in general terms without details of 
the funds. Mr W then called on 7 March and believed he was told the price would be locked 
in at 4pm. He then complained on 14 March 2022. It provided details of his fund which was a 
cautious fund invested in bonds and cash but had negative performance in the 6 months to 
May 2022.
Unit prices
It said that in its web chat with Mr W it said the following,
In our web chat with you on 1 March 2022, its Customer Service Representative (CSR) 
stated when I say locked in I mean any trades placed today before 16:00 will have their 
price locked in at 16:00. After 16:00 any trades placed will use the price tomorrow at 
16:00
From this it could understand why Mr W could be under the impression that your fund 
locked in at 4pm and didnt change until the following day as this wasnt explained very 
well.
It said it used two trading points in a day, depending on the fund invested in, which 
dictated when the trading point is. That meant that the fund continues to trade and 
fluctuates throughout the day, however, at a certain point in the day that is when they 
extract the unit price for sell downs and purchases. This didnt mean there would be no 
change to the value in between, only that it took the unit price for the fund at a specific 
time to make the trades. This was why the value fluctuated on Monday morning, as the 
markets were open again.
Incorrect information given on the phone on 7 March
At the end of Mr Ws call on 7 March 2022, he asked if the unit price he saw on the 
system would be the price he would get and was told that was correct. This wasnt right 
as the trading point for his request was later that day, so the adviser would not have 
been able to tell him what actual price the switch would achieve until after the trading 
point. The unit price he could see was from the previous trade point and would never be 
the price he would get.
It apologised for the wrong information. 
Issues with website
Mr W was also having issues trying to download the Key Information Document (KID) 
from its system, so that he could read over it. As Mr W decided not to provide it with 
screen shots, it was unable to look into this further.
User friendlyAlthough Mr W had been given access to view, monitor and manage his plans online, the 
system was ultimately designed for advisers to use, so it was not as customer friendly.
Declaration
Mr W stated he was unhappy with the declaration that accompanied his online 
submission. This document was a general document and it covered all the online 
journeys. Mr W only had to read the parts that were appropriate to the journey he was 
submitting. It appreciated that this was a lengthy document and this caused Mr W some 
confusion and concern. However, it was unable to alter this, as it needs to cover all our 
online products and journeys.
Switch
AEGON said Mr W  mentioned in his call on 7 March 2022, that he had been trying to 
submit the switch online over the weekend of 5 and 6 March 2022 but were unable to do 
this due to the issues he was having downloading the KID information.
It said that had he submitted the switch over the weekend, he would have still got the 
same unit price as he did for submitting your switch on 7 March at 9.41 am. This is 
because the first trading point of the week didnt take place until later that day. The unit 
price he achieved for his switch was correct and in line with its switch process. This 
meant there was no actual financial loss. However, there was a loss of expectation as Mr 
W was led to believe he would get a higher unit value than he got. It took this loss of 
expectation as well as the considerable time it had taken to respond to the complaint, 
into consideration with the compensation payment it sent him.
The Investigator said Mr W contacted AEGON in early February asking for factual 
information about his pension holding so that he could make a decision about investment. 
He didnt get a reply so contacted an IFA who said they could help but Mr W should be able 
to get the information free of charge from AEGON. He made several requests but still 
couldnt get a reply and decided to move into cash due to falling values. He later regretted 
this and the funds recovered. He felt AEGON should be responsible for the loss as he didnt 
think he would have moved to cash if he had been in possession of the fund information that 
he had requested. AEGON accepted it had made a mistake and should have sent the 
information in February or early March at the latest.
The investigator said he couldnt hold AEGON responsible for Mr Ws decision to move into 
cash. He thought that if he had received the fund information he had wanted, he would still 
have moved into cash, as it would have showed that all the funds were performing 
negatively at the time.
With respect to unit prices AEGON had explained why there was a difference. He listened to 
the call recording of 7 March 2022 and thought Mr W would still have gone ahead.
AEGON accepted it had made errors and offered £800 for trouble and upset and the loss of 
expectation in  respect of the transfer to cash. He thought this was fair and reasonable. 
Mr W didnt agree. He said had he been provided with the information when he requested he 
would not have moved into cash. He felt forced into cash due to the lack of information,  
There were also a series of poor service and administration issues which were distressing as 
they affected his pension. There was no mention of his vulnerability which would have been 
evident to AEGON on its call with him. He felt AEGON showed a complete lack of care 
towards him and he did not accept the investigators findings.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to make an award for financial loss and/or distress and inconvenience I need to find 
that AEGON has done something wrong. It is clear that there were errors as AEGON has 
accepted this. I have therefore considered an award for any financial loss arising from the 
mistakes and an award for the distress and inconvenience caused by the mistakes.
Financial loss
Decision to move to cash
Mr W says that the sale to cash wasnt processed at the correct price. He gave the 
instruction on 7 March which he believed meant it would be priced at a total of around 
£326,000. If the sell down had been priced on 4 March it would have been worth around 
£328,000. When he first raised the issue of wanting details of the fund it stood at around 
£343,000. 
I have seen a copy of the text chat where the adviser confirms the price is fixed at 4pm until 
the next working day at 4pm. It seems this is wrong. 
I have listened to the call between AEGON and Mr W which I believe is from 7 March 2022 
as he makes the move into cash during the call. It becomes clear that Mr W realises the 
advice in the text isnt correct as he comments on this and says that the price has gone 
down which should not be possible. So I dont think Mr W relied on what was said in the text.
In the call Mr W says he is wanting to move into cash but has questions about the price. He 
was told it was fixed each day at 4pm but he said the price over the weekend had fallen this 
morning. He was having difficulty with the KID and terms and conditions and the adviser 
assists him as he makes the move to cash while on the call.
The adviser confirms, twice, that the price will be that he can see on screen. This 
confirmation is given once before he makes the switch and once after it is done. 
Mr W says If I switch it and I am just switching it now ( I just logged back in) the price that I 
am seeing on screen will that be the price?
AEGON replies  Yes, It will be switched, Yes that is correct
At the end of the call Mr W says he is trying to submit it and then confirms it says 
successfully submitted and he hopes it all comes up. The adviser says that now it has been 
submitted it will start the process of moving into cash. 
It isnt clear to me that Mr W relied on what he was told in making the move into cash. I say 
that because he is in the process of making the switch as he is speaking to the adviser. But 
if he did rely I have considered what difference it has made.
The aim in making an award for financial loss is to put Mr W back in the position he would 
have been in but for the mistake. The mistake here was to incorrectly state that the price on 
screen was what he would receive. This was wrong. In fact what Mr W actually received was 
what he was always entitled to, that is the amount processed correctly. The law would not 
say that Mr W is entitled to the benefit of the incorrect statement (the price onscreen at the 
time of the switch) but to the correct price which is what he received.I dont think Mr W relied on the incorrect statement about the price to make the switch. I say 
that because even if the adviser had correctly explained that the price Mr W would receive 
wasnt that on screen, I think he would still have moved into cash.
I say that because on the call he says he was going to tick to say he had read the KID even 
though he had not because he wants to submit because the price has gone down and will 
probably go down again. It is clear he is concerned by the changing market and wants to 
move into cash before the market falls further still. So even if he had been given the correct 
information about the price, I still think he would have gone ahead and moved into cash.
I also dont think there is any evidence from the call or text chat that Mr W was forced to 
move to cash. So I dont agree that he was forced to move to cash due to the these 
conversations or the lack of information about the fund. I say that for the reasons already 
given.
For those reasons I think Mr W has received what he was entitled to receive and has not 
suffered a financial loss.
Did Mr W miss out due to the delay in getting hold of key information documents
It is clear it took Mr W sometime to get hold of the information he wanted about his 
investments. But it is also clear that he was able to track the value of his investments. I say 
that because on the call he comments that the value has fallen over the weekend. Based on 
what Mr W says on the call it is the fall in value that drives his decision to move to cash to 
avoid further falls as he says he wants to submit because the price has gone down and will 
probably go down again. So whether or not he had received the information he wanted 
sooner, I dont think it would have made a difference as it was the movement in values that 
drove his decision. 
Movements on Mr Ws account after deciding to move into cash
Mr W raised further questions about the move to cash as the value on 31 March was lower -
he asked how could it lose £2,000 in a month when in cash?
AEGON explained that Mr W would have viewed the price on Monday 7 March which would 
have been the price from the close of business on Friday 4 March. Mr Ws funds were not 
traded on a real time basis. They process a trade at a future dealing point and aim to 
complete this in either of the next 2 dealing points. There is one dealing point per day  
around 11am. Therefore, what this effectively means is it will place a sale within two working 
days of receiving the request. Its terms and conditions in section 7.11.4 said 
Any sale of investments will then typically be made with the next two Aegon dealing 
points, subject to acceptance of the instructions by the relevant investment 
provider/fund manager.
Therefore it said, the sale of March 2022 was processed within the correct timeframe.
7 March 2022  sale request received online
8 March 2022  sale was priced with effect from this dates prices
AEGON explained the reasons for Mr Ws drawdown policy dropping in value by around 
£3,000 between 8 and 31 March because:
1. The around £326,000 was only the value of the funds sold down at the start of March  there was an additional around £791.00 held in cash already.
2. Taxable Income of £3,000 (gross) was taken from Mr Ws policy on 14 March, thus 
reducing the fund value naturally (around £581.00 of this was deducted as tax).
3. A distribution of £88.21 was added to the policy on 25 March.
Therefore, the starting value was almost £800 higher than Mr W may believe  and the 
primary reason for it dropping to around £324,000 was the taxable income paid to him on 14 
March. AEGON attached screenshots from its system as evidence of this.
The explanation provided by AEGON as to the difference in value between the date of 
encashment and the end of March 2022 seems reasonable to me. I dont have any evidence 
there has been an error by AEGON in that period.
So for those reasons I dont think Mr W has suffered any financial loss either due to the 
delay in providing information, due to the incorrect information about price in the text chat 
and on the phone. Nor do I think there has been an error with his account in the period up to 
31 March. However I do accept that Mr W must be very upset due to the delays and wrong 
information and frustrated by the challenges of the website, terms and declaration he had to 
complete. I have therefore considered an award for distress and inconvenience.
Distress and inconvenience
Such an award is intended to the reflect the impact of the events on Mr W and not to punish 
AEGON. It is clear that Mr W was very worried about the falling markets and the impact this 
was having on the value of his pension investments. He says it was affecting his sleep and 
he was worried beyond belief. Mr W said he explained the impact on the call with AEGON 
and that he was vulnerable. Having listened to the call I can understand that he was worried. 
I think failing to get the information to enable a quick decision when there were rapid 
changes in the market meant the impact on Mr W caused considerable distress, upset and 
worry over a period of few weeks. I note he lost sleep about it.
However the impact did not go on for months, so I dont think the impact could be said to be 
substantial. I say that because the confusion over price became clear when the trade was 
settled and therefore it did not drag on for months.
It seems clear to me that Mr W was understandably worried and upset and not sleeping well 
due to that. We all react differently to mistakes so I have focused on the impact on Mr W and 
not how I might expect anyone else to react in similar circumstances. Because of this impact 
I would have proposed an award of around £750 which is at the top of the range that I would 
have considered. As AEGON has already offered £800 this is more than I would have 
awarded so I am not going to make any further award.
In summary I think AEGON has dealt with his complaint in a fair and reasonable manner.
My final decision
Scottish Equitable Plc  trading as AEGON has acted in a fair and reasonable manner in  
relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 Colette Bewley
Ombudsman