DRN-3673948
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited (MICL) handled a claim 
made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Cs motorbike was stolen and later recovered damaged by the police. Mr C made a claim 
to MCIL and it asked for information and documents to validate the claim. It took Mr C some 
time to provide all the requested information. Then Mr C said the police had disposed of his 
motorbike and MICL asked for confirmation of this. MICL contacted the police on several 
occasions to obtain this, but without success. Mr C was unhappy with the delays in settling 
his claim and with long hold times when he called MICL. MICL paid Mr C £50 compensation 
for the long call times. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
initial delays had been due to Mr C not providing all the requested documents. And he 
thought further delays were due to the police not responding to MICLs requests. So he 
didnt think MICL had caused avoidable delays in the claim. He thought MICLs 
compensation for the long call waits was fair and reasonable. 
Mr C replied that hed told MICL at the start of the claim that it would have to apply to obtain 
the police report and a telephone request wouldnt be accepted. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr C feels frustrated that its taking so long to settle his claim. Hes 
explained that this has had a financial and emotional impact for him. And I was sorry to hear 
about this. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. I can see that Mr Cs policy 
requires him to provide MCIL with any information and assistance it may require when he 
makes a claim. And I think its standard industry practice for an insurer to request information 
to validate a claim. This is to ensure that an insured event took place. 
It can take some time for insurers to investigate and validate theft claims. This is due to the 
number of agencies likely to be involved and the complexity of the issue. That said, an 
insurer has a responsibility under the relevant regulations to settle a claim promptly. So Ive 
looked to see if it caused any avoidable delays in handling Mr Cs claim. 
I can see that MCIL asked Mr C for information after he made his claim. He provided the 
final items three months after the theft. And I think MCIL chased him for these in the 
meantime. So I cant hold MCIL responsible for this delay. 
MCIL also wanted confirmation from the police that Mr Cs bike had been disposed of. Mr C 
recalled that hed told MCIL early on that it should apply for the information from the police 
via its online process. But this isnt supported by the evidence Ive seen. I can see that Mr C 
told MCIL in an email that the police had said it should call 101 and ask to speak to the 
attending officer: 
The police didnt send me any information and Ive said this about 10 times now to about 10 
different agents. They said any further questions you have to contact them directly on 101 as 
there is no more information to give.
MCIL did this, but the 101 operator wouldnt provide the requested information due to data 
protection issues. MCIL asked for the attending officer to call it, but she didnt respond. MCIL 
asked Mr C to try and make contact to get the confirmation it needed as it thought this would 
speed up the claim.
After Mr C first complained to MCIL, Mr C told it that it had to apply for the police report 
online and pay a fee. He thought MCIL should have done this earlier. But I can see that this 
is subject to a further complaint. And so I cant consider that here. 
So, up to the point of Mr Cs complaint, I think MCIL progressed the claim reasonably and it 
wasnt responsible for any avoidable delays. I think the initial delays were due to Mr C not 
providing all the requested information. And I think the following months delay was due to 
the police not responding to MCILs request for contact. I cant reasonably hold MCIL 
responsible for this as it was following the advice Mr C had provided. 
I can see that MCIL agreed in its response to Mr Cs complaint that its level of service wasnt 
always as it expected. It paid Mr C £50 compensation for the call waits he experienced. I 
think this is fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance. 
I think if Mr C is unhappy with how his claim has been handled after he first complained, then 
he should raise this as a further complaint to MCIL. If he remains unhappy, then he can bring 
his complaint to us. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman