DRN-4198470
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that a fixed sum loan agreement he took out with Propensio Finance 
Limited was misrepresented to him.
What happened
In July 2020, Mr E was approved for a fixed sum loan agreement with Propensio. The 
agreement was for £6,550 over 10 years with monthly payments of £119.13. The loan was to 
be used to fund home improvements and didnt come into effect until November 2020 when 
the home improvement work had been completed to Mr Es satisfaction.
In July 2022, after receiving the first annual statement, Mr E complained to Propensio that he 
was mis-sold the agreement by the introducing credit broker  he understood the agreement 
was to be for a term of 5 years, and he says he would never have taken the loan if hed 
known it was for a longer term.
Propensio didnt uphold Mr Es complaint, so he brought it to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service for investigation.
Our investigator thought Mr E had sight of the loan agreement on at least two occasions 
before the drawdown of the funds, and the agreement clearly stated the term was 10 years. 
He also said that Mr E hadnt challenged the terms of the agreement with Propensio during 
any of the conversations hed had with them prior to the funds being released. Because of 
this the investigator didnt agree that Mr E had been mis-sold the agreement.
Mr E didnt agree with the investigator. He said the investigator had ignored that it was the 
salesperson whod explained the agreement to him, and that he had little dealings with 
Propensio. He again explained that he only became aware of the term after receiving the 
first annual statement, when he could see how little had been paid off the balance. 
Mr E clarified that the salesperson said to me that Propensio usually give you 10y to finish 
paying off the loan, but I can pay it off within 5yrs which is what I originally wanted. But on 
inspection of the annual statement I realised it was mandatory for me to keep £119.23 for 
ten years to finish paying off the loan.
In addition, Mr E also explained about his current financial and health situation, providing 
evidence of this, and saying that the loan was never affordable when he took it out. He also 
said that during the my dispute with Propensio I had mentioned to them I cant to pay this 
money [sic], which is what this dispute was mostly about.
Because of this hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr E was supplied with funds under a fixed 
sum loan agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
Mr E has complained that the loan has been misrepresented. When looking at complaints 
about misrepresentation, Im looking at two things  whether there was a false statement of 
fact and, if there was, whether it was the false statement of fact that induced Mr E to choose 
this particular loan.
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mr E electronically signed on 15 July 2020. And both the 
agreement and the pre-contract credit information supplied to Mr E clearly state the term of 
the loan was 10 years. They also clearly state the monthly payment, the interest rate being 
applied, and the total amount Mr E would need to pay if the agreement ran its full term.
Whats more, in his comments on the investigators view, Mr E has said that he was aware 
that the term of the agreement was 10 years (which is why he never queried this) but he 
understood that he was able to repay this sooner if he wanted to.
Given the above, Im satisfied there was no false statement of fact regarding the term of the 
agreement. And, as there was no false statement of fact, then the agreement wasnt 
misrepresented to Mr E.
Mr E has also commented that it was his understanding that he could repay the agreement 
over a shorter period, but hes not allowed to do this. But theres nothing in the agreement 
that means that Mr E must keep the agreement for the full term. And, under the heading 
Early Repayment it clearly states at any time before the final repayment is due you have a 
right to pay off some or all that you owe us  when you make a partial early repayment, we 
will work out any rebate to which you are entitled, and the balance of the early repayment 
and any rebate will be applied to reduce the Final Repayment and then reduce the term of 
the agreement.
Given this, Im satisfied that Mr E can make additional payments to Propensio that will 
reduce the interest thats being charged and reduce the overall term. However, these 
payments will need to be over and above the regular £119.13 payments required by the 
agreement. And, by just making the £119.13 a month payments, the term will remain 
unaltered at 10 years, and the total amount repayable will remain at the £14,295.60 as 
specified in the agreement.
Turning now to Mr Es comments about the affordability of the loan agreement, and that this 
is his main area of dispute. From what Ive seen, Mr E didnt complain to Propensio that the 
loan was unaffordable, nor was this something they addressed in their complaint response 
letter. Whats more, its not something Mr E raised in the Complaint Form he sent to us in 
November 2022.
The rules governing what we can and cant look into dont allow us to consider a complaint 
unless the financial busines have had the opportunity to investigate it first. And, as stated 
above, Mr E hasnt complained to Propensio that the loan wasnt affordable when it was 
approved. So, this isnt something were currently able to look into.As such, taking all of the above into consideration, I wont be asking Propensio to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint about Propensio Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman