DRN-4110727
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that she was mis-sold a stakeholder pension plan by Lloyds Bank 
PLC in 2001.
The complaint has been brought on Mrs Ms behalf by a claims management company 
(CMC).
What happened
Mrs M met with an adviser from Lloyds and was recommended to invest £62.50 net per 
month into the stakeholder plan, with premiums due to increase by 5% each year. The full 
premium was to be invested in the Environmental fund. Mrs M stopped paying into the plan 
in 2003.
In 2022 the CMC complained to Lloyds that both the costs and risk of the fund she had 
invested in were not made clear at the point of sale. It stated that Mrs M was not in a 
financial situation where she could afford to speculate with her pension investment. It also 
stated that the information given to Mrs M in 2001 was not sufficiently clear, and this resulted 
in her being sold a product that was not appropriate to her needs.
Lloyds responded that it considered Mrs M had sufficient surplus income in 2001 to invest for 
her retirement at the assessed level of risk. Its view was that the sale was suitable. It also 
commented that in 2010, Mrs M had transferred existing pension benefits into her plan, and 
had elected to invest into the Environmental fund, even though this was not a standard 
option on the application form.
Dissatisfied with Lloyds response, Mrs M brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. Her view was that Mrs M had invested in a 
fund which was suitable for her attitude to risk when the policy started, and that she had 
been given adequate information about the risk of the chosen fund. The investigator also 
considered that the costs of the policy had been made clear to Mrs M.
On her behalf, the CMC disagreed with the investigators view. It stated that there was some 
confusion regarding the dates when Lloyds met Mrs M, compared to the dates that its 
documentation in 2001 was produced. The CMC also noted that the application form had 
asked that the policy not start until 1 August 2001, but contributions had in fact started a 
month earlier. Taking into account discrepancies the CMC stated there were in the 
paperwork, it suggested this raised doubt about the quality of advice that Mrs M was given.
The CMC questioned whether discussions between Lloyds and Mrs M relating to the risk of 
the investment actually occurred in 2001. Had appropriate discussions regarding risk taken 
place, it stated Mrs M would not have invested in the chosen fund. The CMCs view was that 
the fact Mrs M had transferred further pension benefits into the same fund in 2010 reflects 
that she did not realise by this date that the fund was not suitable for her.
The CMC stated that the Environmental fund came with enhanced risks and typically lower 
return. It said had Mrs M known this in 2001, she would not have selected the fund. 
Environmental funds were not something she had been seeking to invest in, and she had no 
strong sentiment for them. The CMC commented that there was no record that Mrs M had 
been told about the additional risks of an environmental fund to a more typical equity fund. It 
stated that there was a higher risk because there was a smaller pool of companies available 
to invest in that were in line with the necessary criteria, causing less scope for diversification 
of holdings. It also highlighted the risk that changes to regulations could impact the whole 
environmental sector, and therefore the funds valuation.
The CMC highlighted wording in Lloyds literature that described specific risks for the 
Environmental fund to include that investing in a limited number of company shares carried 
greater risk than investing in a wider portfolio. The CMC said that environmental funds would 
have additional costs compared to a basic index tracker fund, due to the former being 
actively managed. In summary, it remained of the opinion that Mrs M had not been made 
aware of the risks and costs relating to her investment, when compared to more 
conventional options.
Having considered the CMCs further submissions, the investigator apologised that she had 
caused some confusion with the dates quoted in her assessment. She clarified that the fact 
fund recording Mrs Ms circumstances had been produced on 22 May, and Mrs M had then 
signed the suitability report provided by the adviser on 1 June. The investigators view about 
the suitability of the investment remained the same. She noted that the recommendation to 
take out a stakeholder pension was designed to address Mrs Ms projected shortfall in 
retirement income. Her conclusion was that the Environmental fund met Mrs Ms recorded 
attitude to investment risk, and that she had been told about the charges applicable to the 
fund.
The CMC responded that by providing a guide to investment funds, that did not mean that 
Lloyds had necessarily correctly assessed Mrs Ms needs, including her attitude to risk. Even 
if Mrs Ms attitude to risk had been appropriately determined, the CMC suggested that she 
had been recommended a specialist fund which had higher risks than she would have had 
an understanding of. It described the Environmental fund as having characteristics that 
would likely reduce its potential returns, and it stated that Mrs M had no particular interest in 
this type of fund. The CMC reiterated that the fund was limited in terms of the holdings it 
could have, and that the risks associated with it were not made clear to Mrs M. If Mrs M had 
been appropriately assessed and advised, the CMC maintained she would not have invested 
in this fund.
As the CMC did not agree with the investigators assessment, this case has been referred to 
me so that a decision can be issued in this matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A key element to Mrs Ms complaint, as outlined by the CMC, relates to whether the 
Environmental fund that she invested in from outset under her stakeholder policy was 
suitable for her attitude to risk, and whether she was given sufficient information about both 
its risks and its costs. I will duly consider these issues, but I consider it reasonable firstly to 
assess the overall suitability of the policy that was recommended to Mrs M.
When Mrs M met Lloyds adviser in 2001, a fact find recorded her circumstances. This 
identified that Mrs M had a projected shortfall in her pension provision. The adviser recommended that she take out a stakeholder pension policy to address this need. Mrs Ms 
contributions were set at £62.50 net per month, with premiums set to increase by 5% 
annually. There is no detailed income and expenditure information for Mrs M shown on the 
fact find, but her annual income is recorded as being £15,000.
In the absence of any suggestion by Mrs M or her CMC that the premium was unaffordable 
at outset, my view is that it was reasonable of Lloyds to recommend that Mrs M pay £62.50 a 
month into the stakeholder plan, and for this to increase on a yearly basis. This would help 
meet her need for further pension provision. In my view it was also reasonable to 
recommend that Mrs M take out a stakeholder plan for the premiums to be invested in, 
bearing in mind that the costs of the plan would be comparatively low.
The CMC has stated that the recommendation Lloyds made was unsuitable because of the 
level of risk that the Environmental fund exposed Mrs Ms regular premiums to. There is 
limited information available that records what happened when Mrs M met with the adviser. 
In my view thats not surprising, bearing in mind that the sale was over 20 years ago.
The fact find does record that Mrs Ms attitude to investment risk was medium/high. There 
isnt any other evidence available from 2001 which provides any background as to how Mrs 
Ms appetite for risk was determined. But on balance, it seems reasonable to me to conclude 
that this was indeed Mrs Ms attitude to risk. The CMC disputes whether the Environmental 
fund that was chosen for the plan was appropriate to Mrs M. In particular, it states that it had 
greater costs than a more passive tracker fund, and had characteristics as a specialist fund 
that made it unsuitable for Mrs M. The CMCs view is that information about the fund was not 
made clear to Mrs M, and if it had been, she wouldnt have invested in.
Lloyds fund guide from 2001 rated the Environmental fund as medium/high risk. I 
acknowledge the CMCs comments that this fund was restricted to investing in a particular 
sector. The fund guide stated that it invested in companies (mainly UK) that show a positive 
commitment to the protection and preservation of the natural environment. Whilst I accept 
that this placed some limits on the equity investments that the fund could hold, with the 
limited information that is now available about the fund, on balance it doesnt seem 
unreasonable to me for Lloyds to have rated this as a medium/high investment risk.
I cant determine for certain how the risk of the Environmental fund was explained to Mrs M 
by the adviser in 2001. But Mrs M signed the advisers recommendations letter that 
confirmed shed received and/or had explained to her documents relating to the sale that 
included a guide to the funds available under the stakeholder plan. Overall, it seems to me 
more likely than not that the risk characteristics of the Environmental fund were explained to 
Mrs M, and that she would have been told that the fund was rated as medium/high risk.
The CMC states that theres no record that shows Mrs M was told about particular risks that 
related to environmental funds. It says these included less diversification in holdings 
because there was a smaller pool of eligible companies that complied with the funds 
investment aims, plus the risk that the funds value could be affected by changes to 
environmental laws. Whilst I note the CMCs comments, taking into account the description 
of the Environmental fund in the fund guide and as I explained above, on balance Im not 
persuaded that its risk was higher than it was classified in that guide, despite its particular 
aims.
The CMC states that as it was actively managed, the Environmental funds costs would have 
been greater than those applicable to an index tracker fund. I accept this may have been the 
case, but I dont consider Ive seen sufficient evidence that this factor would have been key 
to Mrs Ms choice of investment funds. In terms of the overall annual policy charge, this was 
disclosed in the personal key features schedule, a document that Mrs M signed to say she had received. One of the main contentions of the CMC is that if more detailed information 
had been given to Mrs M about the specific risks of the Environmental fund, she would not 
have invested in it. Overall, my view is that in light of the fund matching Mrs Ms recorded 
attitude to investment risk, further information about the fund is unlikely to have resulted in 
Mrs M deciding not to invest in it.
The CMC has highlighted that the application form included special instructions that the 
policy should not start until 1 August 2001. Despite this, contributions began to be taken a 
month earlier than that. Its not clear why the instruction to delay the policy start date was not 
followed. However, Ive not seen evidence which shows that this caused Mrs M any 
particular detriment, for example by causing her financial difficulties. Instead, this resulted in 
Mrs M addressing her pension provision shortfall soon after she had agreed to take out the 
policy. In the circumstances, whilst Lloyds appears to have been at fault by starting the 
policy early, my view is that this has not caused Mrs M a financial loss, or material upset.
Whilst I appreciate that Mrs M is likely to be disappointed with my findings, my conclusion is 
that this policy was not mis-sold to her. It was suitable for her identified need and attitude to 
investment risk, and in my view any failings in the detail of information provided to Mrs M is 
unlikely to have changed her decision to take out the policy and invest in the fund that she 
did.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023. 
John Swain
Ombudsman