DRN-2031357
The complaint
Mr J says Provident Personal Credit Limited lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr J had one home credit loan with Provident in May 2016. The loan was for £700 with 52 
weekly repayments of £24.50.
An adjudicator considered Mr Js complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr J didnt 
agree, so his complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J 
could repay his loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
I can see that before lending to Mr J, Provident obtained some information about his income 
and expenditure. Provident recorded that Mr J was employed, with a monthly income of 
£1,800, plus child tax credits. The total expenditure recorded is a little over £700. 
Im not particularly persuaded by the expenditure information Provident has recorded. A 
number of key fields, including rent/mortgage and utilities have a value of £0 and the figure 
of £50 a week for food in a household with children seems too low. Having said this, 
Provident assumed a monthly disposable income figure for Mr J of £257.91  so its clear it 
made significant adjustments to the expenditure figures provided and didnt just rely on 
Mr Js declarations. 
I think the approach taken to assessing the affordability of this loan was proportionate and 
reasonable and that it wasnt wrong for Provident to think the weekly loan repayments of 
£24.50 looked affordable on this basis.
For these reasons, I dont think Provident lent to Mr J irresponsibly and Im therefore not 
upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman