DRN-2203771
The complaint
Mr S complains that St James Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) didnt make him aware 
he would have to pay for the advice it gave him when it recommended he transfer his 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) benefits to a retirement account with it. Mr S accepted 
this advice and was charged a fee. He wants SJP to refund this fee and waive any charges 
that may be payable to transfer his pension fund away from SJP. He also complains that 
SJPs advisor didnt inform him that he was not an independent financial advisor.    
What happened
In May 2018, Mr S and his wife met with a SJP financial advisor, to discuss their financial 
position.
Mr S had an OPS from a previous employer. Mr and Mrs S told the advisor they wanted the 
meeting to focus on their retirement planning. A fact find interview was conducted to assess 
their financial objectives and circumstances.
Mr S and his wife met again with the SJP advisor in September 2018. Following that 
meeting, SJP recommended Mr S transfer his OPS into a SJP retirement account. Mr S 
accepted the recommendation and his OPS benefits were transferred into a SJP retirement 
account set up in his name.
Mr S later learnt that hed had an advice charge deducted from his pension fund upon 
transfer. He complained to SJP about this in April 2019. Mr Ss wife also complained to SJP 
about the same thing. They said they were misled by the SJP advisor at the meetings they 
had. Mr S said they were also not made aware that the SJP advisor was not an independent 
financial advisor. Mr S said he and his wife were told by SJPs advisor that he wouldnt take 
a fee, and that payment came from their portfolio when they chose to work with him. Mr S 
said the initial and annual charges payable were not explained to them.
Mr S said that as a result of him and his wife being overloaded with information at the 
meetings they had with SJP, they werent given clear information. And that they still didnt 
understand the charges payable and the implications of what SJP were saying was payable.
Mr S said he asked SJP for a clear breakdown of all the charges. He says these werent 
provided initially. Further, Mr S asked SJP to waive any penalties payable to transfer his 
pension away from SJP. He also asked SJP to refund all the charges that SJP had been 
paid out of his pension fund.
SJP didnt uphold Mr S complaint. It said the charges were clearly set out in the paperwork 
Mr and Mrs S were provided with at the time. It said it was reasonable to expect clients to 
read all the information provided before signing the declaration and accepting the 
recommendation.
But, as a gesture of goodwill, SJP offered to waive the early withdrawal charges (EWC) Mr S 
would be charged if he wanted to transfer his pension to another provider. It also agreed to 
pay him £250 to recognise the fact there had been a delay providing him with a breakdown 
of all the charges.
Mr S didnt accept SJPs offer of settlement and referred his complaint to our service. Mrs S 
also referred her complaint about this to our service. I have dealt with their complaints 
separately, although essentially the facts are largely the same. To put matters right, Mr S 
wants SJP to refund the initial advice fee, on top of the redress SJP has already offered.
Our investigator looked into Mr S complaint and concluded that SJPs offer of settlement 
was fair and reasonable, and that he couldnt fairly require SJP to pay any more. He took the 
view that SJP had told Mr S about the charges payable and that he was not independent 
financial advisor and was providing restricted advice only.
In response Mr S said he didnt agree. He said, in summary:
they were completely misled and lied to by the SJP advisor from the original meeting 
through to signing the paperwork;
the advisor said he was completely independent. He said he was not bound to work 
within any particular framework or with any particular investments;
the advisor said his initial advice was completely free, they trusted what he said. He 
said he would only be paid once the investments were in place and he would be paid 
twice yearly based on their investment choices;
they did not talk through the key facts document at the meeting when they signed up;
they were given a mountain of paperwork by SJP, enough to fill up a double ring 
binder. The paperwork was full of financial jargon. They accept now it was foolhardy 
not to go through the paperwork in detail. But, its not fair that this mistake should 
cost them thousands of pounds in hard earned pension investments;
the advisor was very reluctant to provide details of the charges that had been paid 
out the fund. SJP only provided these after being pressed to do so;
whilst they accept they were nave, they are offended by the advisor and SJP 
keeping their money gained through deceit; and
they do not seek compensation and question why if SJP consider their advisor acted 
professionally, compensation is being offered. They just want their investments 
returned to their original value.
As agreement couldnt be reached Mr S complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator. I dont uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
 Where discussions take place, its not always clear what has been said and agreed. So, 
where some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory like this, I have to make a 
decision about what I think is most likely to have happened  based on whats available. So, 
here, as well as taking into account what both parties remember about their discussion, Ive 
also looked at the paperwork from the time, which can provide a record of what was 
recorded in writing about that discussion. 
Mr S strongly believes that the SJP advisor told him something different in conversation to 
whats recorded in the paperwork. 
did the advisor tell Mr S that he was an independent financial advisor?
Ive looked at the key facts document Mr S was given at the time telling him about SJPs 
services and costs. This document listed the service provided and the cost for providing it.
Under the heading Investment on the form it listed 3 advice options, independent, restricted 
and no advice. The restricted advice option was selected. It said this:  
 We will advise and make a recommendation for you after we have assessed your needs. 
We only offer products from a limited number of companies. You may ask us for a list of the 
companies whose products we offer.
Looking at the paperwork I think it was clearly flagged that the advisor was not looking 
across the full range of investment products on offer, but only looking at a limited number of 
companies. So, I cant see from the paperwork that Mr S was misled by SJP into believing 
that he was being provided with independent advice. I think this was explained in a clear, 
simple and prominent way in the paperwork. 
I think it was reasonable to expect Mr S to read through the paperwork he was provided with 
and to expect him to clarify anything he wasnt clear about, or that was incorrectly recorded. 
Were the costs of the services clearly explained?
The key facts document also said this:
What will you have to pay us for our services?
Neither our advice nor our products are free You will pay us charges for both. The details 
of these charges will be discussed with you and set out in detail on the personalised 
illustration we will give to you
If you decide to invest a lump sum with us, the cost of the initial advice and our services will 
be 4.5% of the amount you invest.
How our advice is paid for - If you decide to invest with St Jamess Place, the
costs of our initial and ongoing advice are paid for out of your investment. The specific 
amount of the advice charge is set out in the personalised illustration that we will provide and 
discuss with you at the time you make your investment.. 
Like our investigator, Ive also looked at the illustration, and suitability letter SJP gave Mr S. 
These documents explain all the costs applicable for the advice given and how they are 
applied. So, information about the costs was given to Mr S in more than one document.The declaration Mr S signed and agreed to at the time of advice said, just above where he 
needed to sign:
I understand that the advice I receive is not free and I agree to the payment of
advice charges from my investment as referred to above
So, I think it was also made clear in the paperwork what charges would be payable. Mr S 
accepts now that it was perhaps foolhardy not to have considered the documents he was 
provided with in greater detail at the time. Had he done so, I think any misunderstanding or 
disagreement about the charges payable for the initial advice couldve been addressed at 
the time and prior to transfer. So, I cant fairly hold SJP responsible here. 
Was Mr S unfairly overloaded with information?
Having looked at the paperwork Mr S was provided with, I can see there is a lot of 
information. But, Mr S was making an important decision about how to invest his pension 
going forward, and I cant see that any unnecessary or irrelevant information was provided 
so as to divert his focus. Also, I think the information he was provided with about restricted 
advice and the charges payable was set out clearly, simply and prominently in the 
documents he was given to review and had he read through the information, this wouldve 
been readily apparent.
Overall, I think Mr S was given clear information upfront about the charges and the service 
being provided, so I dont uphold his complaint. I think SJPs offer of settlement is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to acknowledge the upset caused to Mr S by not being 
provided later with the charges information, when he asked for it. So, I do not make any 
further award.
My final decision
St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc has already made an offer to pay Mr S £250 to 
settle this complaint and has agreed to waive the early withdrawal charges. I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc should pay Mr S £250. I 
will leave Mr S to decide whether he wants to accepts the offer made in relation to the early 
withdrawal charges.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December  2020.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman