DRN-1870443
The complaint
Mrs L has complained that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) avoided 
her car insurance policy and refused to pay her claim as theyd found shed made a 
misrepresentation at the time the policy was taken out. 
What happened
Mrs L took out a motor insurance policy with Watford through an online website in 2017. She 
later renewed the policy during a phone conversation in November 2018.
In October 2019 Mrs Ls car was stolen and she tried to make a claim on her policy.
Watford said shed answered a question it asked about who the legal owner and registered 
keeper of the vehicle was incorrectly. They said this was because a leasing company were 
the registered keeper and owners of the car. And it considered this to be a careless 
qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid her policy and decline the claim as a 
result.
Mrs L brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld. They 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. But didnt think this was deliberate or 
reckless. They believed it was careless. They thought Watford were entitled to avoid Mrs Ls 
policy and decline her claim as a result of this. But he did note that Watford had given Mrs L 
the option not to have the policy avoided and thought she should consider this carefully due 
to the implications of having an insurance contract avoided. 
Mrs L doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
particular, although she accepts that the representation was careless she still feels that 
Watford should pay her claim. Mrs L has also shown us evidence of quotes for policies 
online for lease cars through the same brand but a different broker.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Watford thinks Mrs L failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she took out the policy and had another opportunity again when it renewed, but she said that 
she was the registered keeper and legal owner of the car. It later came to light that a leasing 
company were the registered owners and keepers of the car. 
Ive looked at a screenshot of the question that was asked when Mrs L took out the policy 
online. The question asked: Are you (or will you be) the registered keeper and legal owner? 
To the right of this question there was an information box which referred customers to the 
log book if they were unsure of the registered keeper and pointed out that the registered 
keeper and legal owner may not be the same.
In November 2018 when Mrs L renewed the policy during a telephone call, Watford asked 
her Can you confirm that all details from your current policy are correct and current? Mrs L 
confirmed that they were. 
Mrs L has said that it was as a result of her inexperience being a new driver that she 
answered incorrectly. But I think that the initial question asked was quite clear and she was 
given a later opportunity to clarify at renewal. So I dont think that Mrs L took reasonable 
care to not make a misrepresentation when answering the initial question or at renewal.
Watford has since provided evidence in the form of underwriting criteria that if Mrs L hadnt 
made the misrepresentation - then they wouldnt have offered cover. 
Mrs L has told us that shes found other insurance policies available online for consumers 
through the same brand for lease cars like hers and she says that they wouldve offered her 
insurance through the same brand, but using a different broker. Ive asked Watford about 
this in detail and theyve confirmed that Mrs Ls understanding is incorrect and the policies 
shes referred to are offered by other underwriters on a panel of insurers  of which Watford 
is part of. So, in summary, I think that Mrs L wouldnt have been able to get the same cover 
through Watford and the third party insurance administrator had they known about her car 
being a lease car. 
This means Im satisfied that Mrs Ls misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Watford has said Mrs Ls misrepresentation was careless rather than reckless or deliberate 
because Mrs L didnt try to conceal the correct information and she was a relatively new 
driver.
I agree that Mrs Ls misrepresentation was careless because although I think she didnt take 
reasonable care to answer correctly, she didnt do so deliberately or recklessly. Ive also 
noted that Mrs L accepts it was a careless misrepresentation. 
As Im satisfied Mrs Ls misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions Watford can take in accordance with CIDRA. Under CIDRA, where a 
misrepresentation was careless and in this case Watford wouldnt have offered cover had 
the misrepresentation not happened, Watford can avoid the policy from the point of 
misrepresentation and not deal with the claim that Mrs L has tried to make. But Watford does 
need to refund the premiums to Mrs L from the point she took out this policy.However, in this particular case Watford let the policy lapse as it only had a number of days 
to go at the point of Mrs L making the claim. This is potentially more beneficial for Mrs L if 
she needs to take out future insurance policies, as an avoidance of this policy wouldnt be  
on her insurance record. 
Given everything Ive seen, I think this is a fair and reasonable offer to make. So, having 
carefully considered everything, I also think that this is a fair and reasonable outcome and 
Im not going to ask Watford to do anything differently in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman