DRN-2199639
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy with the compensation U K Insurance Limited has paid her for the distress
and inconvenience its handling of her home insurance claim has caused her.
What happened
In July 2019 Mrs A notified UKI of a water leak in her bathroom which, among other things,
damaged her kitchen ceiling.
Mrs A called in a plumber under the home emergency cover her home insurance policy gave
her. The plumber didnt check Mrs As ceiling for asbestos. When the ceiling was removed,
asbestos spread through her home and Mrs A and a family member had to move out while
repairs were done. Mrs A has complained separately about how her home emergency was
dealt with. This complaint has been resolved, Mrs A was paid compensation by one of UKIs 
agents, and I havent looked at it here.
Mrs A also made a claim on her home insurance for the damage the water leak had caused,
including the asbestos contamination  all of which UKI agreed to cover. Mrs A is unhappy
about how UKI has handled her claim. Her main complaint points are:
There were unnecessary delays by one of UKIs contractors in taking down her
kitchen ceiling.
This contractor disposed of many of her personal items without fully itemising them.
The overall quality of another of UKIs contractors work was poor and there were
many snagging issues.
This second contractor left her home and garden in a mess after it had finished the
work.
There were a number of items left unfinished or broken after she returned home from
alternative accommodation.
She and a family member had to live in hotel accommodation for five months. And in
that time she was diagnosed with a health condition that was difficult to deal with at
the hotel.
UKI upheld all of Mrs As complaint points  apart from asking for evidence of some items
she says were broken or damaged. And it offered Mrs A (and I understand has paid her)
£750 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this has caused her. Mrs A doesnt
think this is adequate compensation and so shes brought her complaint to us.
The investigator who looked at Mrs As complaint upheld it. He recommended UKI pay Mrs A
an additional £1,250 for the distress and inconvenience it had caused her. And since Mrs A
said she still had some snagging issues, he recommended UKI inspect Mrs As home and
agree a schedule of works with her.
UKI disagreed. On 9 September 2020, I issued a provisional decision in which I explained 
thered been some further issues on the complaint since our investigator sent his view. And I 
said because of this, even though I intended to uphold the complaint as our investigator had 
done, my decision needed to be provisional. This was so that Mrs A and UKI had the chance 
to comment on these issues before I made a final decision on it.
Mrs A has said shes happy with my decision. Shes also clarified a couple of the facts in this 
case. UKI doesnt accept my decision and thinks its original compensation of £750 is fair and 
reasonable. Mrs As complaint has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Ive decided to 
uphold Mrs As complaint.
In my provisional decision, I said:
I intend to uphold Mrs As complaint and direct UK to pay her £1,250 (in
addition to the £750 it has already paid her) for the distress and inconvenience its caused
her. Ill explain why by going through each of Mrs As main complaint points and looking at
the impact she says theyve had on her.
UKIs agent says it took about three weeks to take down the kitchen ceiling. This was a long
time and undoubtedly delayed the works being completed. Of this, Mrs A says it beggars
belief that they attended to remove the kitchen ceiling but left some of it in place which
led to them having to come back creating further delay because the job wasn't done right in
the first place. Clearly, this was very frustrating for Mrs A.
UKIs agent spread asbestos contamination throughout the house. I think this, as well as the
loss of her personal possessions, would have caused Mrs A a great deal of worry and upset.
The fear of illness from asbestos is very real and I think Mrs A was entitled to be extremely
concerned.
UKI accepts that many of Mrs As personal belongings were disposed of by one of its
contractors without being fully itemised. Of this, Mrs A says it created great personal
distress as I had to recall what was not accounted for and submit my own details which
required considerable thought and care.
UKI also accepts the standard of work of another of its contractors wasnt what it wouldve
expected. Mrs A describes the decorating as slapdash. She goes on to say:
The mess left behind both inside and outside was depressing to say the least. Boxes of half
used tiles, grout etc dumped on the lounge furniture and floor. Boxes of screws and sawdust
left in the kitchen cupboards. No reasonable attempt made to tidy up when finished. Piles of
rubbish including old kitchen units left for several weeks in the garden. Clearly no pride
shown in their work or care or respect for me the householder.
UKI accepts there were other issues when Mrs A returned home, although it says many of
these were resolved early on. Of these issues, Mrs A says when she returned home she
found wires left dangling from a removed pendant fitting in one room, a bulb holder broken in
another, a TV aerial broken, plug sockets moved and reduced, marked and broken furniture,and plasterboard in the kitchen marked and cracked due to what she calls an unidentified
leakage.
Of Mrs As alternative accommodation, UKI accepts that five months was too long to be in a
hotel and in hindsight a long-term let wouldve been more suitable. But it says it only
anticipated the work would take no more than six to eight weeks. Mrs A says being away
from her home for 156 days caused her great distress. She also says staying in a hotel,
when you dont know whos sleeping next door, made her feel very vulnerable.
Finally, Mrs A also says that, during this time, she was diagnosed with a health condition that
was difficult to manage in a hotel setting and also suffered three bereavements. She says
having the claim hanging over her added to the emotional distress these things caused her.
In response to Mrs As complaint and our investigators view, UKI says it immediately agreed
to meet 100% of Mrs As alternative accommodation costs. But this is something Id have
expected it to do under the terms of her home insurance policy. It says in August 2019 Mrs A
said she was very happy at the hotel (which is one I believe she also chose). But at this
stage, Mrs A had only been in the hotel for around five weeks and wouldnt have known she
was going to be there for almost another four months. UKI says Mrs A was given an
enhanced disturbance/food allowance of £15 per person per day (normally it says its
allowance is £10 a day). But, again, Id expect UKI to pay Mrs A an allowance of this type in
these circumstances. And it says the snagging issues Mrs A identified when she got home
were minor and didnt affect her ability to live in her home.
It is, of course, inevitable when you make a claim on your home insurance that you must
expect some distress and inconvenience. And in Mrs As case, the damage was extensive
and having asbestos in her ceiling was always going to be a complicating factor, so her level
of her distress and inconvenience was likely to be heightened. But from how Mrs A has
described her experiences  and from UKIs acceptance of the many things that went wrong
during Mrs As claim  its clear to me that the distress and inconvenience that she has had
has been severe. And in these circumstances, I think it is fair and reasonable for UKI to pay
Mrs A an additional £1,250 (in addition to the £750 it has already paid her) as compensation
for that distress and inconvenience.
The other thing I have to look at in this complaint is the snagging issues Mrs A was
experiencing at the time our investigator sent out his view. In his view, as Ive already
mentioned, he recommended UKI inspect Mrs As home and prepare a schedule of works.
UKI said it didnt think an inspection was needed. Since then, though, its agents have been
to Mrs As home and I understand almost all the snagging issues that formed part of this
complaint have been resolved.
From what Mrs A says, I think the only unresolved issue is that UKIs list of works doesnt
include a wall that had steel brackets left in it, which Mrs A says needs to be removed and
the wall redecorated. Weve asked UKI if it agrees to this, and also if it agrees this is the only
snagging issue connected to this complaint thats outstanding. It would be helpful if UKI
could respond to these points before I make a final decision on this complaint. Likewise, it
would also be helpful if Mrs A could confirm that, in relation to the snagging issues that form
part of this complaint (and not her more recent complaint), this is the only outstanding issue
she has.
In response to my provisional decision, Mrs A says, among other things, it wasn't really a 
choice for her to stay in the hotel she did. She said there were only two hotels in her town 
and the other one was very expensive. Shes also clarified that, of her bereavements, two 
had happened shortly before she made the claim and the third shortly after she came back 
home.Also in response to my provisional decision, UKI says it doesnt see how its failings can 
come anywhere close to the £2000 compensation (in total) Im directing it to pay, unless Im 
including the impact of the asbestos being released and spread. It says this is something 
Mrs A has already been compensated for as part of how her (now resolved) complaint about 
how her home emergency was dealt with. So it says this isnt something it should be 
compensating Mrs A for.
In my provisional decision, I said I thought the asbestos contamination would be something 
Mrs A would be extremely concerned about. But, in referring to it, I was simply describing 
the full range of issues Mrs A had to deal with. The effects of the asbestos contamination 
have been dealt with as part of Mrs As home emergency complaint and arent part of this 
complaint. Even so, I thought it necessary to highlight how much of a concern this wouldve 
been for Mrs A throughout the time her home was being repaired.
But the asbestos contamination wasnt part of my reasoning for upholding Mrs As complaint. 
She didnt raise it as part of her complaint. And it isnt something I considered when I looked 
at Mrs As extensive list of complaint points and decided UKI hadnt treated her fairly.
UKI thinks the £750 it has already paid Mrs A is fair and reasonable for the additional 
distress and inconvenience its caused (beyond the initial reason for Mrs As claim). It says 
the core issues are: 
the 3 months delay, in which [Mrs A] had to stay in a hotel, some rectification work (overall 
minor work) when she got home and having to recall contents items, and all of the distress 
and inconvenience caused (including her own personal circumstances within this period).
But for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision (and which now form part of this final 
decision), I think UKIs many failings have had a severe impact on Mrs A. UKI hasnt given 
me any new information to make me change my provisional conclusions. 
Putting things right
I think an additional award of £1,250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience UKI 
has caused Mrs A is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mrs As complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited to 
pay her £1,250 (in addition to the £750 I understand it has already paid her) for the distress 
and inconvenience it has caused her in connection with her claim.
UKI should pay this compensation within 28 days of the date we tell it Mrs A accepts my final 
decision. If it doesnt, it should pay interest at the rate of 8% simple a year from the date of 
my final decision to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman