DRN-4178613
The complaint
Mr P complains that NewDay Ltd trading as NewDay Cards lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In February 2019 Mr P applied for a Debenhams card. NewDay approved the application 
and gave Mr P a card with an initial credit limit of £500. The credit limit was increased to 
£1500 in September 2019, to £3000 in February 2020, to £4250 in December 2022 and to 
£5000 in June 2022.
In September 2020 Mr P applied for a Fluid card. NewDay approved the application and 
gave Mr P a card with an initial credit limit of £1200. The credit limit was increased to £2450 
in January 2021 and to £3700 in May 2021.
Mr P complained that NewDay lent to him irresponsibly.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They said NewDay shouldnt have increased the 
credit limit on the Debenhams account to £1500 in September 2019 because the information 
showed that there was a risk that Mr P wouldnt be able to sustainably repay what was being 
lent. The investigator also said that NewDay shouldnt have increased the credit limit on the 
Fluid card to £3700 in May 2021 for the same reasons.
NewDay didnt respond to the investigators view so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Ps complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, NewDay needed to complete reasonable and proportionate checks 
to ensure that Mr P could sustainably repay what was being lent to him. Theres no set list of 
checks a lender has to complete but lenders should have regard to factors such as the 
amount borrowed, the repayment amount and the consumer individual circumstances when 
deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
Debenhams account
Mr P provided details of his income when he applied for the card. NewDay carried out a 
credit check and took into account Mr Ps expenditure and other credit commitments.
Based on what Ive seen I think the checks were reasonable and proportionate. Ive gone on 
to consider whether the lending decision was fair.
Ive reviewed the information that NewDay gathered at the time the account was opened. Mr 
P declared annual income of around £20,150. Credit checks showed that Mr P had existing 
unsecured debt of around £12,300. There was no adverse information on the credit file.
Ive taken into account the relatively low credit limit which was applied to the account when it 
was opened. Although Mr P had significant unsecured debt at the time, Im satisfied that the 
repayments on the account were affordable and that the lending decision was fair.
The credit limit was increased to £1500 in September 2019. The credit check carried out at 
the time shows that Mr P had one account in arrears in the last 6 months. His unsecured 
debt was around £12,259. The data shows that Mr P had been making minimum payments 
on the account and had made three cash withdrawals. In the circumstances, I dont think 
NewDay shouldve increased the credit limit because there was a risk that Mr P wouldnt be 
able to sustainably repay the borrowing.
Fluid Account
Mr P declared an income of £24,400 when he applied for the card. The credit checks 
showed that Mr P had around £9100 of unsecured debt. There was no adverse information 
on Mr Ps credit file.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the checks were reasonable and proportionate and the 
lending decision was fair.
The credit limit was increased to £2450 in January 2021.The credit checks showed that Mr 
Ps unsecured debt had increased to £11,900. He was making minimum repayments on the 
account but there were no missed payments or arrears. Based on what Ive seen I think the 
lending decision was fair.
The credit limit was increased to £3,700 in May 2021. The credit checks showed that Mr Ps 
unsecured debt had increased to £12,400. Mr P was fully utilising the existing credit limit on 
the account and was making minimum payments. Hed also made a cash withdrawal. In the 
circumstances, I dont think NewDay shouldve increased the credit limit because there was 
a risk that Mr P wouldnt be able to sustainably repay the borrowing. 
Putting things right
Debenhams account
NewDay Ltd should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges applied to balances over £500
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr P together with 8% 
simple interest per year from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. 
NewDay should also remove all adverse information recorded after 27 September 2019 in 
relation to the account from Mr Ps credit file.
If, after the rework, the balance exceeds £500, NewDay should arrange an affordable 
payment plan with Mr P. Once Mr P has cleared the balance, NewDay should remove all 
adverse information recorded after 27 September 2019 in relation to the account from Mr Ps 
credit file.
Fluid accountNewDay Ltd should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges applied to balances over £2450
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr P together with 8% 
simple interest per year from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. 
NewDay should also remove all adverse information recorded after 26 May 2021 in relation 
to the account from Mr Ps credit file.
If, after the rework, the balance exceeds £2450, NewDay should arrange an affordable 
payment plan with Mr P. Once Mr P has cleared the balance, NewDay should remove all 
adverse information recorded after 26 May 2021 in relation to the account from Mr Ps credit 
file.
HMRC require NewDay to deduct tax from this interest. It must give Mr P a certificate 
showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. NewDay Ltd must take the steps Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman