DRN-3117623
The complaint
This complaint is about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) handled a 
claim by the late Ms E on her home insurance policy.
It is brought by the executors of the estate, who Ill refer to as Ms C and Mrs S as they are 
leading the complaint with this service. 
What happened
Ms E held a building insurance policy with Lloyds. In 2018 she made a claim for escape of 
water in her home. The damage reported by Ms E was to her first floor WC and the kitchen 
downstairs. Lloyds arranged for Ms Es home to be visited by their agent the following day as 
Ms E was a vulnerable customer. 
Lloyds considered the claim and declined it. They said their agent found the damage was 
ongoing for a period of time and not caused by a one-off insured event. Their agent said he 
couldnt find any damage to the roof which may have caused a leak. Their agent suggested 
the leak may have come from failed roof guttering or an overflow pipe from the loft water 
tank, but he felt this would have been ongoing for a long time. 
In September 2020, following Ms Es passing, Ms C and Mrs S contacted Lloyds because 
they were unhappy with the way the claim was dealt with. They felt Lloyds hadnt written to 
Ms E confirming the claim was declined and this shouldnt have just been done on the site 
visit. Ms C and Mrs S say the leak was caused by a faulty ball valve in the loft tank which 
was repaired. They feel the claim should have been accepted, and because it wasnt when 
the house was sold after Ms Es passing it was valued down by £10,000.  
Lloyds agreed to review the claim. Lloyds accepted that an insured event did occur with the 
escape of water from the faulty ball valve. But they say the damage was caused gradually 
over a period of time from the leaking overflow pipe. They said gradual damage is excluded 
under the policy, so they maintained their decision to not cover the claim. Ms C and Mrs S 
didnt agree so referred the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened. She thought Lloyds hadnt applied the gradual 
damage exclusion fairly because she didnt think Ms E would have reasonably known about 
the leak. But although she felt that Lloyds should have settled the claim, she didnt make an 
award against them because she didnt have any information on the loss suffered by the 
estate. 
Ms C and Mrs S disagreed. They said Lloyds hadnt acted fairly by declining the claim on 
site as they didnt give Ms E a chance to challenge the decision, which they feel she would 
have done. They also felt Lloyds could have accepted the claim at the time of the review and 
this would have meant the property could have been repaired before it was sold. Our 
investigator considered these comments, but they didnt change her view.  As Ms C and   
Mrs S still disagreed the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. Unfortunately, I expect Ms C and Mrs S will still be 
disappointed as Im not going to ask Lloyds to pay any compensation. Ill explain why. 
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by a home insurance policy. Only damage 
caused by one of the insured perils (or, events) listed in the policy  fire, theft, escape of 
water, storm etc.  is covered. 
The regular maintenance a property needs isnt covered by insurance. But sudden and 
unexpected events usually are. If a policyholder can show that the damage he or she is 
claiming for is caused by one of the policy perils then the insurer must pay the claim unless 
the insurer can rely on one of the policy exclusions. If the insurer wishes to rely on a policy 
exclusion it is their responsibility to prove it can be successfully applied to the claim. 
When Lloyds sent their agent to view the damage to the property, he was unable to find an 
insured event. The notes provided by Lloyds suggest there wasnt any damage to the roof or 
any missing tiles that may have resulted in a leak. The property was also inspected in the loft 
and no signs of leaking or water damage were noted. I can understand why this may have 
been the case, as Ms C and Mrs S have told us the faulty ball valve was repaired, and 
although there was some confusion as to when between Ms C and Mrs S, the notes suggest 
this was repaired a day before Lloyds agent attended the property in November 2018.  
As the repair had taken place and from the photos provided the signs of damage to the 
property was the very damp external side wall, I dont think it was unreasonable of Lloyds to 
decline the claim on the basis that an insured event hadnt taken place. I havent been 
provided with any information to suggest their agent was told about the repair to the ball 
valve to be able to come to a different conclusion at the time. 
So Ive gone on to consider if the review of the claim in September 2020 was handled fairly. 
By this point Ms C and Mrs S were acting as executors of Ms Es estate and it would seem it 
was only then that Lloyds were notified of the faulty ball valve. Lloyds accepted that an 
insured event had taken place, but they still decided not to cover the claim because they felt 
one of the policy exclusions relating to gradual damage applied. 
Lloyds say the overflow was dripping for a significant time and was readily visible and they 
felt it was the thing that caused the damage to the first floor WC and the kitchen downstairs. 
The policy terms say under the General Exceptions that apply to the whole policy section:
The policy does not insure the following:
11.  Loss or damage from:
 gradual causes
So Lloyds seem to have applied the exclusion in line with the policy terms. And most policies 
do have similar exclusions. But I dont agree that this term was fair considering Ms Es 
circumstances. Generally, the longstanding approach of this service is that it is unfair for an 
insurer to rely on such an exclusion if the consumer couldnt reasonably have been aware 
the damage was occurring. 
Normally this may be in a situation where the damage cant be seen; for example, because it 
is hidden behind a kitchen cabinet. In this case, Ms E had clearly explained to Lloyds that 
she was disabled and found it hard to get around the property. She said she was confined to the ground floor and lived alone with carers visiting her daily. Therefore, Im not persuaded 
she ought reasonably to have been aware there was a problem and acted sooner. As such, I 
dont consider the gradual damage exclusion can fairly be applied. 
Ms C and Mrs S say the estate has lost out because by not accepting the claim they had to 
sell the property at an undervalue. Our investigator asked them for evidence of the loss, 
such as a scope of works or a valuation of the property showing the loss, but nothing has 
been provided. As Im unable to determine the level of loss Im not able to ask Lloyds to 
make any compensation award for this. 
Ive also thought about the way the claim was handled. Ms C and Mrs S say Lloyds should 
have provided Ms E with a letter confirming declinature of the claim and advising Ms E of her 
rights. But there isnt a requirement to provide this in writing and I can see from the notes  
Ms E contacted Lloyds the following day to discuss the claim being denied. So I think she 
understood the reasons for the claim being denied and if she wanted to challenge the 
decision at the time she could have done so. So I dont think her not receiving a letter would 
have made a significant difference to her. And Ive already explained above why I dont think 
Lloyds were unreasonable in declining the claim at the time. 
I sympathise with Ms C and Mrs S situation and do appreciate how difficult this has been for 
them. But as the estate of Ms E is the only eligible complainant in this case, I can only 
consider redress for the estate. As mentioned, I dont think it was unreasonable of Lloyds to 
have initially declined the claim, so I dont think Ms E was impacted by this at the time. And 
when the claim was reviewed Ms E had passed away, so the only impact I can consider was 
on the estate but as stated above Ms C and Mrs S havent provided any evidence to show 
the loss suffered by the estate. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. But I make no award against Lloyds 
Bank General Insurance Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms E 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman