DRN-3882900
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) failed to provide an 
adequate service under their HomeCare policy and gave them very poor customer service.
What happened
I set out the background to the complaint within my provisional decision and also here. 
Mr and Mrs R moved to a house with oil-fired heating in June 2021. They said BG serviced 
the boiler and told them it was fit for purpose and insured it against failure or breakdown. 
The boiler stopped working in March 2022 and they contacted BG for an engineer to attend. 
They said they were passed from pillar to post as one operator or another either promised to 
solve the problem and send an engineer, or insisted that they werent insured.
BG wrote to Mr and Mrs R in March 2022 saying that from mid-April it wouldnt cover their 
oil-fired boiler and sent £50 as a gesture of goodwill and a refund of premiums. BG has 
subsequently said this letter was sent in error. Mr and Mrs R said BG put them in touch with 
another firm who it said would take over the work, but this firm knew nothing about it and 
only removed boilers that no longer worked. They said BG told them it would still pay for the 
repair of the boiler and asked them to contact a local firm. Mr and Mrs R did this but shortly 
after this work the boiler blew up damaging their home. 
Mr and Mrs R said they were without heating or hot water while liability for the repairs was 
disputed. They said BG felt its liability was limited to compensation of £150, but not to insure 
and repair the boiler as it had previously promised. Mr and Mrs R said theyd paid BG for a 
service that it shouldnt have passed to a third party and it should acknowledge its shocking 
lack of customer care. They thought that had their boiler not broken down the policy would 
have continued with them unaware of the changed cover.
Mr and Mrs R said they spent countless hours trying to get some action from BG, including 
being put on hold, and calls terminated. And endured an exploding boiler with damage to 
their property, leaving them without heat and later hot water. Mr and Mrs R said it was unfair 
they had to claim for the damage through their home insurance, increasing their premiums. 
They want proper compensation from BG for the distress and enormous disruption it has 
caused. And they said BG should have assigned the repair to a boiler engineer of its choice 
and not walked away as if none of the subsequent events had anything to do with them. 
BG said it hadnt carried out a first visit as Mr and Mrs R had said, and it had no record of 
advising them that it would cover a third-party repair to their oil-fired boiler.  
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said BGs records showed 
it cancelled Mr and Mrs Rs policy the same day it was taken out, indicating it wouldnt cover 
oil-fired boilers, but didnt tell them until March 2022. She said it was a third party, not acting 
on BGs behalf that damaged the boiler and it wouldnt be fair to hold BG responsible for this. 
She said it wouldnt be fair to tell BG to cover a claim for a risk it hadnt intended to cover. 
She thought the £150 compensation BG paid Mr and Mrs R was fair for its poor service.    
Mr and Mrs R disagreed, saying BG hadnt cancelled their contract in June 2021, but by 
letter with effect from April 2022. They said BG had acknowledged their cover and so was 
responsible for the repair of their boiler.
My provisional findings and the parties responses
In my provisional findings I said I intended to uphold the complaint.
I said that we wouldnt tell a business it has to maintain cover for a risk it no longer wants to 
insure, and so there was no reason why BG shouldnt decide to discontinue cover for oil-
fired heating. I looked at how BG handled its communications with Mr and Mrs R about their 
policy and I thought it could have done a lot better.  
BG said it amended Mr and Mrs Rs policy to remove the boiler cover when it was taken out 
in June 2021, but an error meant it didnt tell them. I thought Mr and Mrs R had every reason 
to believe they still had the cover as BGs staff arranged for an engineer to attend the boiler 
before and after their claim. BG said it stopped selling cover for all oil-fired boilers at the end 
of 2021, and cancelled existing cover from 11 April 2022. And so its not clear why it would 
have removed this cover from Mr and Mrs R in June 2021. 
BG notified Mr and Mrs R that their policy would be cancelled on 11 March 2022, a day after 
they had requested help with their boiler. I asked BG if this had prompted it to cancel the 
policy, but BG said that it wrote to all its customers to give notice of the pending cancellation 
and refund premiums plus compensation of £50. BG has also said this letter was sent in 
error, but hasnt provided any explanation in response to my question about this. Our 
investigator thought that an administrative error meant that BG failed to tell Mr and Mrs R it 
had cancelled the policy in June 2021. But I couldnt see how Mr and Mrs R were to be 
aware of these errors. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt think BG had the right to abdicate responsibility as insurer for their boiler 
before the policy cancelled in April 2022. I agreed as I considered BG to have affirmed the 
insurance contract beyond the date of the claim and so full rights to make a claim remained 
with Mr and Mrs R until cancellation took effect. I thought that BG should have treated the 
policy as in existence when the claim was made and responded according to the terms of 
the policy. And so I didnt think it was fair for BG just to refund the premiums and tell Mr and 
Mrs R to find an alternative boiler service.
Mr and Mrs R also said BG told them that it would cover their claim and they should find a 
third-party repairer for the boiler, which led to disaster when their boiler exploded. BG denied 
this and hasnt retained call recordings with Mr and Mrs R and so I havent been able to 
identify any information given to Mr and Mrs R. But their boiler needed work and it seems 
reasonable to expect BG to have recommended a third-party professional. However, this 
didnt mean BG could pass liability for the boiler to that third party. The third party that Mr 
and Mrs R said BG referred them to knew nothing about the work and they had to look 
elsewhere. I didnt think BG was at all helpful here.
Because BG wouldnt accept liability for the damage, Mr and Mrs R claimed on their home 
insurance policy. This meant the damage got fixed and a new boiler was installed, but at a 
cost to Mr and Mrs R. I said I thought they would have paid an excess on their claim and 
higher insurance premiums. I said I thought BG should have dealt with Mr and Mrs Rs claim, 
and either arranged a professional to fix their boiler or dealt with the consequences of the 
failed boiler service by the third party. I thought BG should make good Mr and Mrs Rs 
losses.  I said Mr and Mrs R were without heating for two months and for some of this time they had 
no hot water, they also experienced the trauma of the explosion of their boiler. Although BG 
didnt consider that it had liability for what happened it has paid Mr and Mrs R £150 
compensation for the poor service it provided. BGs records show over 50 outbound calls to 
Mr and Mrs R, including some dropped calls, and missed appointments by its engineers. Mr 
and Mrs R have provided a list of calls from March 2022 to BG about their boiler that took 
almost four hours in total. I could well understand Mr and Mrs Rs frustration about the time 
taken in dealing with BG and lack of help with the problems they faced. 
BG acknowledged the poor service it provided to Mr and Mrs R. I said that not providing an 
engineer or insurance cover under the policy caused Mr and Mrs R distress and uncertainty 
over how the situation would be resolved. In recognition of this I thought BG should pay Mr 
and Mrs R further compensation of £200 over and above the £150 it has already paid. 
BG did not respond to the provisional decision. Mr and Mrs R said they were pleased theyd 
been listened to. They said they had no heating for almost eight months, not two months as I 
had said. They said their home insurer will try to recover payment of their claim from the third 
party's insurer but if that isnt possible their no claims discount will remain reduced from nine 
years to three, having a significant impact on their premiums, when they renew the policy at 
the end of February 2023. They said they had to pay £250 excess on the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed all of the available communications between Mr and Mrs R and BG. 
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Rs point about the amount of time they were without heating. 
This is the period I had taken account of rather than the two months I said in my provisional 
decision. 
Since neither party has challenged the reasoning within my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to change it. In summary, Mr and Mrs Rs policy and its cancellation was mishandled 
by BG and the effect of this upon Mr and Mrs R was compounded by very poor 
communications. I think BG gave Mr and Mrs R to understand that it retained liability for the 
problems with their boiler, as it should have given the existence of the policy at the time of 
the claim. 
I remain of the view that Mr and Mrs R received very poor service from BG and that this 
caused them a prolonged loss of heating and hot water and distress concerning the damage 
to their boiler and possible repairs. I still think that BG should pay further compensation to Mr 
and Mrs R for the impact its poor service had upon them, and meet their increased 
insurance costs as set out below. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above and in my provisional decision the complaint is upheld. I 
require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Reimburse Mr and Mrs R for the cost of the third-party repairer on production of an 
invoice to British Gas. Reimburse Mr and Mrs R for any losses from having made an insurance claim, 
including their excess payment of £250 and any higher premium to pay at renewal of 
their policy. Mr and Mrs R to provide British Gas evidence of these losses. 
Pay Mr and Mrs R further compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience it 
has caused them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman