DRN-4071800
The complaint
Mr M complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) hasnt 
refunded the money for flights paid using his credit card. He also believes the contract terms 
concerning refunds are unfair. 
Mr Ms wife is an additional cardholder on the account and I recognise she plays a part in 
this case. However As Mr M is the main account holder, he is the only person eligible to 
bring this complaint to this service. For ease of reference, I will refer to Mr M throughout this 
decision.
What happened
In March 2022, Mr Ms wife used his credit card to purchase flights through an online 
booking agent, who I will refer to as T. The flights cost around £400.
Following potential issues with travelling to the accommodation, Mr Ms wife decided to 
cancel the flights on the same day they were booked. A refund was requested but refused. 
Mr M complained. He also said the terms were unfair as he should be refunded the money 
less any reasonable charges. 
Barclaycard said they considered the claim under the chargeback scheme and section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 but they found no breach of contract therefore Mr M wasnt 
entitled to the return of the money. They said although Mr M believed the airlines booking 
terms were unfair, that didnt mean there had been a breach of contract. 
Unhappy with their response, the complaint was referred to our service. The investigator 
recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. They concluded there had been no breach of 
contract therefore Barclaycard werent liable to return the money. They also said while Mr M 
may consider the terms to be unfair that didnt entitle him to a refund. Mr M disagreed and 
maintained his position.
In March 2023, I issued a provisional decision not upholding the complaint. I said:
Where a consumer raises a dispute about a transaction made on a credit card, the card 
provider may consider the dispute under two avenues  chargeback and Section 75. 
Chargeback
A chargeback claim isnt a legal right or a guaranteed way of getting a refund. The rules are 
set out by the particular card scheme. There wasnt a requirement for Barclaycard to raise a 
chargeback, but if there was a reasonable prospect of achieving a successful outcome, Id 
consider it good practice for it to have done so.
Barclaycard has told our service that a chargeback claim wasnt made as there was no 
prospect it would be successful as the consumer had changed their mind. 
Ive considered the relevant chargeback scheme rules and there are limited reasons for a 
claim. I consider the most relevant one which would apply to be Goods or Services Not 
Provided. However based on what our service has been told, Mr Ms wife decided to cancel 
the flights. There is nothing to suggest the flights were unavailable, cancelled or not going 
ahead so I cant say the supplier failed to provide the service. Its clear Mr Ms wife changed 
her mind after purchasing the flights but the chargeback scheme doesnt cover reasons such 
as this. I have also considered if there is any other relevant chargeback reason which would 
apply and have a reasonable chance of success but I dont find there is.  
Im satisfied Barclaycard acted fairly by not pursuing a chargeback claim as it was clear the 
claim didnt have a reasonable prospect of success. 
Section 75
Barclaycard also considered the complaint under Section 75. This sets out that in certain 
circumstances, the credit card issuer can be held jointly liable if there has been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation of the goods by the supplier. However for section 75 to apply, 
there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in place. Here, Im not satisfied this 
necessary agreement exists between the parties.
I say this because for there to be a valid s75 claim, the person who paid for the goods, that 
is Mr M (debtor), must have a contractual relationship with the supplier as well as with the 
credit issuer (creditor). However in this case, the booking was made by Mr Ms wife. 
Moreover, the flights werent intended for him, but instead his wife and their son. Although he 
was contractually responsible for funding the flights as hes the credit card account holder, 
he wasnt a named passenger.  Therefore I dont find Mr M had a contractual relationship 
with the supplier of the flights, in effect, he was purchasing the flights on the behalf of his 
wife and son. 
Additionally, I also have concerns there are issues with the debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement from the supplier perspective. That is because there appears to be more than 
one supplier- the airline and the booking agent (T). However as Ive already explained the 
necessary three way agreement isnt in place from the debtor side, I dont find it necessary 
to comment any further about the issues with the supplier. 
Overall, Im not satisfied the required debtor-creditor-supplier agreement was present 
therefore Barclaycard cant be held liable for a section 75 claim. 
Unfair contract terms 
Mr M complains the terms for T and the airline are unfair. He says in the event of a refund, 
some fees and/or charges may apply but its unfair the full amount is kept and not returned.
I wish to stress this complaint has been brought against Barclaycard. The terms which Mr M 
believes to be unfair are terms of the airline and T. So I cant reasonably hold Barclaycard 
responsible for the contract terms of a third party. I dont agree with Mr Ms comments that 
when considering the section 75 claim, Barclaycard breached their contract by relying on 
terms that he believes to be unfair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Barclaycard nor Mr M made any further comments in response to the provisional 
decision. Therefore on the basis I havent been provided with anything, I still consider my findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, my final decision is the 
same for the reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman