The complaint
Mrs B and Mr E complain that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited acted
unfairly and unreasonably in how Mr Es personal injury claim under a legal
expenses insurance policy has been handled. They want matters put right.
What happened
Mrs B and Mr E had legal expenses insurance with DAS. Mr E had already made a claim 
under the policy to bring employment claims against his former employer and colleagues, 
which was dealt with by his own choice of solicitor as Mr E didn't want to use the panel 
solicitor appointed. Mr E's solicitors told DAS in March 2016 that Mr E should issue his 
employment tribunal claim and a separate protection from harassment claim in court, but 
also said it needed a barrister's opinion about the second claim. DAS agreed to pay for that 
advice.
But Mr E's solicitors didn't communicate with DAS (despite being contacted by it), and failed 
to keep it updated about the progress of either of the claims or ask for permission to decline 
a settlement offer (the policy required DAS' approval). They mentioned in passing that there 
was a personal injury claim and DAS pointed out that this wasn't something for which a claim 
under the policy had been made. Mr E's solicitors said that they meant to refer to 
the harassment claim, but this did include compensation for the injuries suffered by Mr E to 
his mental health.
In October 2016, Mr E's solicitors asked about cover for the harassment claim and repeated 
that it was not a personal injury claim; DAS explained that it needed to know if there were 
reasonable prospects of success and warned that the costs limit of the policy applied to all 
the claims. In December 2016, Mr E's solicitors said that the harassment claim didn't have 
reasonable prospects of success and this was supported by a barrister's opinion. Their 
relationship with Mr E broke down shortly afterwards, though the solicitors told DAS Mr E 
was now considering bringing a personal injury claim and DAS agreed to pay for advice from 
a second barrister from its preferred chambers. DAS confirmed this offer to Mr E when he 
contacted it directly in March 2017 and also agreed to include consideration of a personal 
injury claim within that advice. The advice was obtained, but not sent to DAS until June 
2018; the opinion said that there wasn't reasonable prospects of success for either the 
harassment or personal injury claims.
In June 2018, Mr E contacted DAS, apologising for not being in contact earlier, and said that 
he hadn't issued a personal injury claim yet and he was unhappy with the barrister's opinion 
from 2017, which he wanted reviewed at DAS' cost. DAS explained that it hadn't yet agreed 
to cover the personal injury claim as it hadn't been advised there was a reasonable prospect 
of success; it also said that in any event a personal injury claim wasn't covered as it arose 
from an employment contract. Mr E was shocked as this was the first time he had been told 
the claim mightn't be covered at all.
DRN-1938411Mr E complained to DAS in October 2018, having issued intentional tort, harassment and 
personal injury claims in court and obtained two opinions from another barrister in the 
meantime. In January 2019, DAS said it would open a new case for the personal injury claim 
and backdate the cover to include reasonable legal costs to date if it was covered by the 
policy's terms and conditions, such as being assessed to have reasonable prospects of 
success. It also paid £1000 compensation for its earlier customer service failures, including 
wrongly telling Mr E that personal injury claim was excluded and also other failures related to 
the employment claim. DAS confirmed that the legal costs paid to date would be part of the 
overall costs limit as the work was done by the solicitors and barristers involved, and agreed 
to refund the £100 cost to stay the civil proceedings. Mr E accepted this offer.
But in June 2019, Mr E complained that DAS had told him that the personal injury claim was 
declined as its panel solicitors had assessed it as being without reasonable prospects of 
success (such prospects were required by the policy). This had left him without 
representation for his civil claims. Mr E objected as he had two opinions from a barrister from 
2018 which said that the harassment claim didn't have a reasonable prospect of success, 
but the tort and personal injury claim had above 51% chance of success. DAS said advice of 
the panel solicitors was that the evidence supplied by Mr E wasn't sufficient and the claim as 
issued by another firm of solicitors didn't meet the legal requirements, and there was a poor 
chance of a court allowing amendments. The solicitors didn't think it would be possible to 
rectify these problems and so had said the civil claims didn't have a reasonable prospect of 
success. DAS said that the 2018 opinions didn't address the developments that had 
happened since and had led to the negative assessment, and it was fair and reasonable to 
rely on the advice it had received. Mr E said he didn't want to deal with DAS any more.
Mrs B and Mr E complained to us. The investigator's view was that when DAS told Mr E that 
the personal injury claim wasn't covered by the policy in 2018, it acted unfairly and 
unreasonably as it knew about the claim from an early stage and the reason given wasn't 
correct as such claims were covered if they had a reasonable prospect of success. She 
thought DAS' later decision to take the personal injury claim forward in January 2019 was 
fair and reasonable, and noted the compensation paid for this failure, amongst others 
regarding the employment claim, was fair and reasonable (and she noted Mr E accepted 
this).
But the investigator said that it wasn't clear why DAS now preferred the view of its panel 
solicitors about the prospects of success of the personal injury claim, as opposed to the 
barrister's view. She thought it would be fair and reasonable for DAS to pay for another 
barrister's opinion in order to break the deadlock. The investigator said both Mr E and DAS 
had to agree on who was instructed, and that this opinion would be the advice to be followed 
for the future of the funding of the claim.
After the investigator issued her view, the court lifted the stay in the civil proceedings and 
said Mr E had until late April 2020 to deal with his claim. Mr E and DAS tried to agree a way 
forward; each side put forward how they wanted to resolve the matter but there was no 
agreement. Mr E wanted DAS to pay to gather evidence and for solicitors to deal with his 
claim while another barrister's opinion was obtained; DAS offered to instruct a new panel 
solicitor to review the claims, but Mr E wouldn't agree unless his conditions about how the 
work would be done were met and his questions answered.
The investigator said that it wasn't in Mr E's own interests for him to delay matters given the 
court order, and she still thought another barrister's opinion would be best, rather than a 
review by another panel solicitor. She supplied the answers to Mr E's questions, explaining 
to him that the client would be Mr E only, DAS would supply the information it held, and that 
no-one could dictate how a qualified lawyer undertook their duties. The investigator said that the parties had to co-operate given the timing issue, and Mr E had to decide whether to 
consent to another legal opinion; if he did, she said it should be from a barrister.
Mr E disagreed. He set out his concerns about the investigator's summary of the background 
and felt that her view didn't deal with all of his concerns, such as his belief that the last set of 
panel solicitors had a conflict of interest and had ignored the 2018 opinions. Mr E didn't think 
his claim should've been declined in all the circumstances. But Mr E did agree to the 
instruction of a barrister but said it wouldn't resolve the complaint unless a solicitor was 
appointed to deal with his case in the meantime as the court deadline was less than two 
weeks away.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
"When I refer to DAS, Im also referring to its agents.
While I appreciate that the parties might want me to go into the detail, I cant as this decision 
has to be suitable for publication. I have though read everything the parties have sent to this 
service and understand their positions. I also had the advantage of dealing with a related 
complaint about the employment claims. I will focus on the core of this complaint, which I 
think is about the decisions that the personal injury claim didn't have reasonable prospects 
of success, but will deal with other relevant issues.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that DAS has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. There's no dispute that the 
policy requires a claim to be assessed as having reasonable prospects of success to be 
accepted for cover, or that a personal injury claim is covered by the policy if it meets the 
other terms and conditions of the policy, such as reasonable prospects.
DAS accepted that it shouldnt have told Mr E that personal injury claims arising from 
employment were excluded, though it was right to point out that it hadnt been shown any 
legal assessment that the claim had reasonable prospects of success. But it paid £1000 
compensation for this failing, together with compensation for other failings in the related 
case, and agreed to backdate the cover if reasonable prospects were established. It also 
paid the court fee to stay the civil proceedings. Mr E accepted this and hasnt challenged this 
point any further, other than to say if DAS hadnt given incorrect reasons for the decline, he 
wouldnt be in the position that he now finds himself.
Im not persuaded Mr Es argument about this is likely. First, from the outset Mr Es solicitors 
told DAS that there wasnt a personal injury claim. It wasnt until early 2017 DAS was told 
this claim was being considered by Mr E, and despite the terms of the policy, it offered to 
pay for a second barristers opinion  - it never saw that opinion until many months later in 
2018. The opinion wasnt supportive of Mr Es position regarding the civil claims, and by this 
point no firm of solicitors agreed with Mr E either; I dont think the decline of the personal 
injury claim on an incorrect basis made any difference as when that decision was made, 
there was no assessment that the personal injury claim had a reasonable prospect of 
success. And compensation was paid for trouble and upset for this failing, which Mr E 
accepted after negotiating a higher payment; I think the compensation paid was fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
This leaves the second decision to decline the claim in 2019. The investigator felt that it 
wasnt clear why DAS preferred to rely on the opinion of panel solicitors when there were 
two 2018 opinions that the personal injury claim had reasonable prospects of success 
(though the harassment claims didnt). I disagree. The solicitors, who are legally qualified, explained that they found serious difficulties with the claim for two reasons  the evidence 
gathered wasnt sufficient to comply with court rules for such claims in their view, and the 
claims which had been issued were legally defective and were unlikely to be able to be 
amended. These are significant changes from when the barrister advised twice in 2018  the 
evidence needed could be gathered before the deadline and the claims hadnt yet been 
issued. The panel solicitors didnt ignore the 2018 opinions; they just found that matters had 
moved on and changed the prospects of success. I think that it was fair and reasonable for 
DAS to rely on the assessment of the panel solicitors.
The panel solicitors set out in detail the problems with the personal injury claim, and DAS 
explained to Mr E why the problems identified by those solicitors affected the weight that 
could be placed on the 2018 opinions. Insurers are entitled to rely upon the opinions of 
suitably qualified lawyers; the panel solicitors were suitably qualified. Mr E says that they 
were acting under a conflict of interest  such matters are professional matters for the 
solicitors to address, not DAS.
The investigator said that in the circumstances, the best way forward was to get another 
barristers opinion at DAS cost. But the court deadline has now passed as Mr E didn't agree 
in time for advice to be given by a solicitor and action to be taken. It isnt fair or reasonable to 
expect DAS to fund litigation in the circumstances of this case when so many lawyers have 
expressed concerns about the claims and the last assessment was written in light of the 
current picture and developments with reasons given for the position taken by the panel 
solicitors. Despite this, DAS has tried to deal with the matter and was willing to fund another 
review by solicitors.
More critically, I have stepped back and looked at the overall picture. The policy doesnt 
require DAS to pay for additional barrister opinions when theres a dispute. Yet DAS has 
paid for several barrister opinions when Mr E hasnt been happy with earlier opinions or the 
views of the variety of firms of solicitors involved under this policy as it has taken Mr Es 
health issues into account. This was fair and reasonable.
And long periods of time have passed without DAS being involved in the various claims 
through no fault of its own, which has contributed to the time issues Mr E faced. Weighing up 
the history of this matter, I dont think its fair or reasonable to ask DAS to pay for any more 
legal opinions, whether from a solicitor or barrister. Mr E has shown that he is able to obtain 
advice, and I think its fair and reasonable to require him to obtain advice about the 
prospects of success and pay for it; if the opinion is supportive of his position and 
DAS declines to pay the cost, it's potentially open to Mr E to raise a new complaint."
What I've decided - and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr E set out why he disagreed with my view. He said 
that the two barrister opinions about the personal injury claim said his claim had reasonable 
prospects of success. He felt that there were no significant changes after the last supportive 
barrister's opinion had been obtained, and that the panel solicitors who advised were 
conflicted as a number of their solicitors had trained at the same large national firm where 
one of the parties he was pursuing had worked. Mr E criticised the advice given by those 
solicitors and confirmed that he had privately paid for another firm of solicitors to deal with 
the legal proceedings and a medical expert had been instructed.
DAS had nothing to add in response to my provisional view.Having thought carefully about what Mr E has said and reviewed the complaint again, I 
remain of the view that my provisional view is fair and reasonable. I note Mr E's response 
has focused on the decline of his claim in 2019. I will therefore deal with this issue below.
I don't agree with Mr E that the passing of time and the need to make an application to court 
to continue the proceedings isn't a significant development that happened after the last 
supportive barrister's opinion. It is significant, not least because courts increasingly have 
been taking a firm line and the panel solicitors gave a reasonable explanation of the court's 
likely response and the need for more medical evidence.
I don't know whether the application Mr E's new solicitors made succeeded, but this isn't 
relevant - DAS made its decision based on the information it knew at the time, including the 
advice of the panel solicitors. I've already explained why it's fair and reasonable for an 
insurer to rely on legal advice given by suitably qualified lawyers. And I note Mr E said in his 
response to my provisional view that the further medical evidence that the panel solicitors 
said would be needed had now been obtained - this is also a significant change.
Mr E has said that the panel solicitors were conflicted; I'm not persuaded that's correct but 
it's a professional matter and not a matter for DAS. And while Mr E has said that he can't 
afford to pay for legal assistance and advice, he has managed to do that as shown by the 
instruction of new solicitors. It remains open to Mr E to obtain a further barrister's opinion 
who can consider the proceedings in light of the court's decision on the application made 
and the new evidence obtained; if the opinion is supportive, Mr E can ask DAS to pay the 
cost. But I don't think in all the circumstances it's fair or reasonable for me to ask DAS to 
now pay for another opinion which may not be supportive, given what it's already paid or 
refunded already and the terms and conditions of the policy which says if Mr E wants to 
challenge the decision, he should initially pay for the new opinion.
I remain of the view set out in my provisional decision and confirm it as my final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr E to accept or reject my decision 
before 20 July 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman