DRN-2271871
The complaint
Mrs D and Mr S are unhappy with the delays in reaching and with the settlement offered to 
them for remedial repairs following their home insurance claim.
What happened
Mrs D and Mr S had made a claim to Zurich in 2018 following a water leak from their boiler.
Zurich accepted the claim and arranged repairs. These were substantially completed in
November 2018. However Mrs D and Mr S were very unhappy with the quality of the repairs.
And Zurich accepted that substantial remedial repairs were needed. Mrs D and Mr Ss
complaint about the way ther claim was handled was dealt with in February 2019 by Zurich
and by this service in a final decision I made in August 2020.
The remedial work required was very extensive and included complete relaying of the
downstairs floors., In February 2019 Mrs D and Mr S sent to Zurich two quotes for the repair
from other contractors. One was for £37,250 plus VAT and the other for £44,008.55
including VAT, so very similar.
Zurich reviewed the estimates and arranged for its loss adjusters to assess the work
needed. At first it offered Mrs D and Mr S £17,400 in June 2019 and then after reviewing the
matter offered a final settlement of £25,000 for the repair works.
Mrs D and Mr S initially accepted the proposed settlement but then changed their minds as
they felt that the work couldnt be done for the amount being offered.
Zurich accepted there had been delays in making the further offer of settlement and offered
£250 compensation for that. It maintained that its offer of settlement was reasonable.
On review by this service our investigator thought that Zurich should make an offer in line
with the two quotes Mrs D and Mr S had obtained, and pay for alternative accommodation
costs. He said it should also pay a further £500 compensation.
Zurich didnt agree and asserted that it only had to pay a settlement equivalent to what it
would cost it to complete the work. It agreed to pay for alternative accommodation during the
works but only if this is actually arranged.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that Zurich should pay a settlement equivalent to 
the lower of the two quotes, but not any further compensation.
Mrs D and Mr S responded:
Since these quotes were obtained in January 2019 they are now over a year and a half 
old. Costs have gone up since then.
They would like the cash settlement to include the accommodation allowance, as Zurich 
has delayed in paying for requested expenses. Theyre still awaiting payment of a £350 
disturbance allowance. If this isnt possible they want the details of the payment to be set 
out  who to contact at Zurich, and how long it has to pay it.
My decision said they werent in any rush to obtain quotes and that Mrs D was pregnant. 
This is not correct as they sought quotes as soon as Zurich confirmed in November 2018 
that they were in agreement the work was substantially poor and needed to be remedied.
Zurich didnt accept my decision. It said:
The contractors had laid the flooring in a different direction to how it had been before. 
The flooring stopped at the kitchen plinths and didnt run from wall to wall underneath the 
kitchen cupboards. Additionally there were minor snagging works. The bulk of the cost of 
the repairs involved removing and reinstalling the kitchen units and replacing the flooring. 
It doesnt believe this justifies Mrs D and Mr S receiving the full cost of their using their 
own contractors.
The complaint was in relation to the length of time it had taken to offer a cash settlement 
and not the amount of the cash settlement itself. Mrs D and Mr S were initially happy with 
the amount of £25,000 offered and never raised a complaint to us about the amount 
itself. It now seems unfair that Im making a decision on an aspect of a complaint that 
was never raised.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings:
It will be clear, from the various estimates that the work required is not just snagging work
and a bit more, it will require complete relaying of the flooring and the removal and
reinstallation of the kitchen units. And its evident from the communications with the
contractors that they didnt really accept they had done anything wrong. For those reasons I
dont think it would be reasonable to expect Mrs D and Mr S to have those same contractors
back.
Further, this isnt dealing with the claim under the terms of the policy when Zurich could quite
properly say its only obliged to pay what it would cost it to have the work done. I think, as
Mrs D and Mr S have been put in this situation by the admittedly very poor work, that they
should be able to use contractors of their choice.
I cant see that Zurich has re-costed the quotes obtained by Mrs D and Mr S. Instead it has
reviewed the work and determined that it would only pay what it would cost it to carry it out.
In response to our investigator it has said that its not unusual for it to see quotes that are
substantially higher than the prices it receives from its approved contractors. There could be
several reasons for this, such as 1) Companies are tempted to provide higher quotations
where they believe the costs are being met by an insurer 2) It receives discounted rates from
its approved contractors 3) Customers obtain quotes from more premium companies. It also
said Mrs D and Mr Ss quotes include complete removal of the decking when it believes only
a partial removal is necessary.
Both quotes Mrs D and Mr S received were broadly similar. Ive seen no evidence from
Zurichs loss adjuster that Mrs D and Mr Ss quotes are inflated. I also have no idea whether
they have instructed premium companies but consumers on their own will be limited in the
companies they can get to quote, especially for remedial work. Both their quotes include fullremoval of the decking and I think thats reasonable. And, as Ive said above the fact that
Zurich gets discounted rates is irrelevant in respect of this complaint because it concerns
remedial repairs.
I think that Zurich should pay Mrs D and Mr S a cash settlement equivalent to the lower of
their two quotes. It doesnt need to pay the VAT until Mrs D and Mr S provide an invoice
from the contractor concerned. It should also pay the reasonable cost of any alternative
accommodation arranged by Mrs D and Mr S while the work is being carried out. They
should contact Zurich at the appropriate time to arrange this. A suggested figure of £11,400
has been put forward for this so the cost should be around that amount.
As for compensation, I do bear in mind that at the time of submitting their quotes Mrs D and
Mr S were in no hurry to get the work under way. Mrs D was due to have a baby and they
wanted to be settled in before starting on any new work. So although I can see that it took
some time to put forward a cash settlement, I do think the offer of £250 compensation is
reasonable. If Mrs D and Mr S want to accept the offer of compensation they should contact
Zurich directly.
I disagree with Zurichs comment that apart from the flooring being laid wrongly, there were 
only minor snagging works. Zurichs experts report on the quality of the work found:
In the rear garden the timber decking is damaged and is starting to rot due to the amount 
of accumulated waste/debris that had been left on the decking for the duration of the 
works. The contractors had been concealing waste/debris from the works under the 
decking boards.
The laid flooring throughout is poor with flooring warped and filler used to fill in gaps in 
between warped/bowed boards. The initial floor installation had to be taken up and 
another drying programme resumed. It is possible that the same boards were then relaid.
Mastic has been applied to floor edges where previously the floor had run under the 
skirting. Skirtings have been cut unevenly and installed poorly.
Kitchen base units were set aside to allow the installation of the flooring, however upon 
refitting the units they have been misaligned and no longer flush fitting. Worktops should 
have been taken out to allow easy removal/install of the units which would have avoided 
this issue.
Wall plaster to front wall of kitchen has blown and cracked.
Childs Bedroom: 
Newly installed wood flooring bouncing with air pockets. Visible buckled wood floor to a 
1SQM area. 
Wood work not sanded down/prepped before painting.
Rear patio doors do not open/close property any more.
Rear Bedroom:
Fitted wardrobe installed incorrectly with supporting pole not secure, and drawer units 
moving/wobbling.Poor plaster skim finish - uneven and undeveloped wall finish.
Those issues on the whole dont appear to me to be minor snagging issues, but rather 
serious issues with the quality of the work.  Apart from the floor being laid wrongly, it appears 
that it would have had to be relaid anyway due to the poor quality of its installation. 
Additionally I think the contractors failure to communicate adequately with Mrs D and Mr S 
led to the floor being installed the wrong way, and not being installed under the kitchen units.
In light of this I think Mrs D and Mr S were justified in wanting to use their own contractors. 
Whilst I note that Zurich offered to use another contractor on its network I dont think that is a 
satisfactory alternative.  As I said in my provisional findings Ms D and Mr S were put in this 
position by the very poor work. Whilst its liveable with, its clearly not satisfactory, and I 
dont think, unless Mrs D and Mr S want their house to be devalued that they would 
reasonably want to accept a settlement and not have the work done
As regards what Mrs D and Mr S complained about, as our investigator pointed out as noted 
in the final response, this was due to the difference in price between both parties quotes. So 
whilst the final cash offer hadnt been reached, at that point the price difference was in 
contention. Zurich has known about this for several months, so if it had wanted to open a 
new investigation it has had ample time to do so. 
As regards acceptance of Zurichs settlement, Mrs D and Mr S initially did accept it. But its 
clear that they then changed their minds. I dont think Zurich regarded this as a binding 
settlement, as it made no attempt to pay it, and hasnt made an issue of it before now. 
Ive noted Ms D and Mr Ss point about the date of their quotes. I have advised both parties 
that I proposed to add interest to the payment at the standard rate of 8% per year. I think its 
fair to apply that rate from the date the quotes were sent to Mrs D and Mr S, which was 21 
February 2019, until Zurich reimburses them. I should point out that Zurich could have 
chosen to pay the £25,000 without prejudice at the time it made the offer.
With regard to alternative accommodation, I think its reasonable for Zurich not to pay this 
until it has been arranged. And I cant direct it as to how to pay this, as it will have to go 
through its system. Ive indicated what an appropriate figure is and this decision is issued on 
the basis that Zurich will pay around about that sum. If it doesnt pay any agreed figure for 
alternative accommodation within 28 days of it being agreed it will have to pay interest at 8% 
per year until it is paid.
Finally I note, in relation to compensation that Mrs D and Mr S say they obtained quotes as 
soon as they could following agreeing with Zurich at the work need to be redone. I think it 
right to say they werent in any hurry at that stage to get the work done.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Zurich Insurance PLC to:
pay to Mrs D and Mr S a cash sum equivalent to the lower of their two quotes for 
repair and add simple interest* at 8% per year to that figure from 21 February 2019 
until it pays Mrs D and Mr S.
to pay any VAT on receipt of the appropriate invoice.
pay the reasonable cost of any alternative accommodation arranged during the 
repairs, and when a figure is agreed, pay that within 28 days and if still unpaid after that, to add simple interest* at 8% per year to that figure from then until it pays Mrs D 
and Mr S. 
*Zurich Insurance PLC is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from any 
interest paid. Should Mrs D and Mr S request it, Zurich Insurance PLC should provide 
them with a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, 
they can reclaim it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman