DRN-4136934
The complaint
Mr T complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) keep reducing the amount he 
can withdraw in branch without identification.
What happened
Mr T says the amount he can withdraw from a NatWest branch without identification reduces 
each time he goes into the branch. He was told he couldnt withdraw £1,500 without 
identification and then he was told he couldnt withdraw £1,000 without identification. Mr T 
made a complaint to NatWest. But as NatWest didnt respond to him he brought his 
complaint to our service.
NatWest told our service that they werent upholding Mr Ts complaint as they had followed 
their process. They told us the manager of the branch had made an exception by allowing 
Mr T to withdraw a higher amount without identification, but they advised him he would need 
identification moving forward.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ts complaint. She said that based on the information she 
had been provided, the branch was following the correct process regarding asking for extra 
identification. She said the limit to withdraw funds from customer accounts in cash can 
change from time to time, and this is not unusual. She said although NatWest didnt send 
him a final response, this didnt stop him from bringing his complaint to our service, so this 
wouldnt affect the outcome of the complaint. Mr T asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive noted NatWest didnt send Mr T a final response letter as they say they were 
still within their timescale to investigate a complaint, Im pleased to see this didnt affect Mr T 
bringing his complaint to our service. 
Id like to explain to Mr T that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their processes or procedures such as what their procedure should be for branch cash 
withdrawals. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who 
have the power to instruct NatWest to make changes to their policies and procedures, if 
necessary. 
NatWest have forwarded our service their cash withdrawal procedures as of December 
2022. This shows that the withdrawal limit that a customer would need to present 
identification for is £1,000 and over. So Im satisfied that NatWest are acting in line with their 
procedures here. From time to time this limit may change, or the identification that NatWest 
require could change. This would not be unusual if NatWest feel that they need to do this to 
protect their customers accounts.
I have considered that Mr T had previously been able to withdraw £1,500 in cash at the 
branch without extra identification. The cash withdrawal process does allow a manager 
discretion, and this is why this was allowed on that occasion. But Mr T has been made 
aware that he would need to bring extra identification moving forward if he wanted to 
withdraw £1,000 or more in cash, so he should bring the extra identification to the branch as 
discretion may not be granted in the future after he has already been told to bring the extra 
identification.
Based on the cash withdrawal limits weve been provided, it should be possible for Mr T to 
be able to withdraw up to £999.99 without providing extra identification - as long as he 
brought his chip and Personal Identification Number (PIN) card with him and used this as 
part of the withdrawal. Although £1,000 would only be a penny more than £999.99, NatWest 
would need to draw the line at some point. And they have taken the decision for this to be at 
£1,000 for extra identification. Mr T should be aware that this could change in the future, so 
he may wish to bring extra identification if he wants to make a large cash withdrawal at the 
branch. But it follows I dont require NatWest to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman