DRN-4166828
The complaint
Mrs K complains about how One Insurance Limited dealt with a claim she made on her car 
insurance policy after an accident.  
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known by both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill focus on providing the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs K has strong views about what has happened. I want to assure her Ive 
read and considered carefully everything shes said. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised or to 
answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mrs K, and 
by One Insurance Limited, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on 
the facts of the case. I wont therefore be taking into account the reviews of other peoples 
experiences of One Insurance Limited that Mrs K has provided.
Having reviewed everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the 
following reasons:
One Insurance Limiteds liability under the policy is to repair all accident-related 
damage to manufacturers standard. I recognise that this means they would be 
potentially quoted at a higher cost than a policyholder maybe willing to pay and would 
include some items in order to meet this requirement, which on the face of it 
someone may choose not to repair if they undertake a private repair. 
Mrs K has said One Insurance Limited inflated the repair costs in order to avoid 
repairing the car and to class the car as a write off. Ive looked at the engineers 
report One Insurance Limited has provided and the details of the repairs Mrs K had 
done. But I havent seen evidence which shows One Insurance Limiteds report was 
obviously wrong.
Or, have I seen any comments from an engineer of comparable qualifications and 
experience about what repairs in the report in their opinion didnt need completing 
(remembering the repairs have to be undertaken to a manufacturers standard). So, 
overall, I think it was reasonable for One Insurance Limited to base its repair costs on 
this report.  
I am not satisfied One Insurance Limited offered Mrs K a fair valuation for her 
vehicle. And by doing this Im satisfied it caused her inconvenience and influenced 
her decision not to proceed with the claim and repair the car privately. 
I accept it was initially indicated to Mrs K her car might be repaired. This isnt 
unusual; however, it is only after a car is fully inspected that an insurer will become 
aware of all of the damage to a car and make its assessment on how to move the 
claim forward.
There were slight delays in getting the assessment completed which caused Mrs K 
inconvenience as she was without her car. 
Based on the policy, Mrs K was only entitled to a courtesy car if hers was being 
repaired. As it was deemed to be a write off One Insurance Limited did not need to 
provide Mrs K with a courtesy car.
As part of the claim, it was discovered Mrs K had points on her licence that One 
Insurance Limited was not aware of. Under the relevant legislation, the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), One Insurance 
Limited is entitled to make any adjustments to the settlement to reflect the fact it has 
only been paid a proportion of the premium it would have charged had the true 
circumstances been known. Having considered the question asked and the 
information One Insurance Limited have provided from its underwriters, Im satisfied 
it was entitled to make a deduction from the settlement it originally offered to Mrs K.
 
One Insurance Limited has confirmed the claim remains open as there are 
outstanding charges associated with it. Therefore, it is possible for Mrs K to decide if 
she wants to proceed with this now. She would need to provide details of the repairs 
she had done, and costs incurred to One Insurance Limited for its consideration. 
And, subject to the deduction of any applicable policy excess and, that above for the 
misrepresentation of points, One Insurance Limited would then need to make 
settlement to Mrs K for any remaining amount. Mrs K will need to contact One 
Insurance Limited if she now wishes to do this.
Im satisfied One Insurance Limiteds handling of this claim caused Mrs K distress 
and inconvenience. I think it should pay her £500 compensation to reflect this. 
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ks complaint against One Insurance Limited. I direct it to pay her £500 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman