DRN-3981183
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC recorded two missed payments on his credit file 
or with the service he received from Barclays surrounding a credit card that was no longer 
visible to him on Barclays banking app.
What happened
Mr L had a Barclays credit account which was closed by Barclays a few years prior, but 
which had an outstanding balance to which Mr L was making ongoing monthly payments to 
clear. In April 2022, the credit card for the closed account disappeared from Barclays online 
banking app, which meant that Mr L was unable to log into the account using the app. Mr L 
contacted Barclays about this, but Barclays staff couldnt explain why this case.
Mr L also noticed that when he input the sort-code and account number hed been using to 
make payments to the closed credit account, the payee details no longer showed as 
Barclays but instead referred to a well-known retail brand. Because of this, Mr L cancelled 
his direct debit payments, only to later discover that Barclays reported two missed payments 
against him as a result. Mr L wasnt happy about this, especially as hed contacted Barclays 
several times to try to understand and resolve the issue. So, he raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Ls complaint. They didnt feel theyd acted unfairly in how theyd 
managed the situation and noted that the credit file reporting was correct because Mr L had 
himself cancelled the direct debit and not made alternative payments. Mr L wasnt satisfied 
with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel that Barclays had acted 
unfairly in regard to reporting the payments that Mr L hadnt made. But they did recommend 
that Barclays pay £100 to Mr L as compensation for the trouble hed incurred when trying to 
understand why he could no longer access the account via the online app. Mr L remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can understand why Mr L would have had concerns about the account, 
given the disappearance of the credit card from the banking app and his inability to log into 
the app as a result, as well as that Barclays appeared unable to explain what had happened 
when he first contacted them.
However, it was ultimately Mr Ls choice to cancel the direct debit and to not make payments 
towards the account, and so I find it difficult to censure Barclays here for accurately reporting 
those missed payments to Mr Ls credit file as they did. And I dont feel that the service 
issues that Mr L encountered justify his not making payments to the account such that 
Barclays should fairly or reasonably be instructed to amend the credit file reporting as it 
currently, and accurately, stands.
Mr L has explained that he could no longer log into the account online and that when he 
checked the sort-code and account number hed been making payments to for this account, 
it no longer showed the payee as Barclays but rather showed the name of a well-known 
retailer. Mr L has also explained that his concerns were amplified because when he 
contacted Barclays, their staff couldnt explain what had happened and why he couldnt 
access the account.
In their response to Mr Ls complaint, Barclays explained that the card that Mr L held for the 
closed credit account had expired, and that because the account was closed, it was their 
policy to not issue a replacement card. Barclays further explained that this was why the card 
disappeared from the banking app and why Mr L couldnt log into the banking app from that 
point onwards because an active card was required to be able to log into the banking app.
I can appreciate that Mr L might not have been aware that the card for the closed account 
was due to expire, given that the account was closed and that Mr Ls only actions towards 
the account was to make the monthly repayments. But as the account holder, I do feel that 
Mr L should have had an ongoing awareness of the balance remaining on the account and 
that monthly payments still needed to be made towards it, even during the time that he was 
trying to understand why his access to the account via the online app had been removed. 
I also dont feel that Mr Ls decision to cancel the direct debit that was set up to make 
monthly payments towards the account on the basis that the payee details referenced a 
retailer was a reasonable one. There are two main reasons for this. Firstly, the credit 
account was a Barclays account branded to that retailer, which I feel Mr L should have been 
aware of. And secondly, given that all previous payments made to that sort-code and 
account number had been received by Barclays, I feel that it stands to reason that any 
continuing payments made to those details would continue to be received by Barclays.
Indeed, had it been the case that Mr L had continued to make payments using the sort-code 
and account number that he previously had been using, but that for whatever reason those 
payments werent received by Barclays, then I would almost certainly be instructing Barclays 
to amend their credit file reporting as Mr L would like here  because there would be clear 
evidence that Mr L had attempted to meet his obligation to make those payments. 
But in this instance Mr L cancelled the direct debit and didnt make the two payments via an 
alternative channel. And so, Im satisfied that Barclays have fairly and accurately reported 
those payments as being missed.
However, I agree with the recommendation put forwards by our investigator that Barclays 
should make a payment of £100 to Mr L as compensation for the service issues he 
encountered, including that Mr L made several attempts to resolve this issue via online chat 
but that Barclays staff were largely been unable to help him.
I had considered whether an increased compensation amount might be merited here. But its 
notable that in one of the earlier online chats that Mr L engaged in, he was told by Barclays 
that he would need to call a specific telephone number to discuss his issue. As such, given 
that Mr L then engaged in several later online chats  having already been told that he 
needed to speak with Barclays on the telephone  I dont feel that Barclays should be held 
solely responsible for the further inconvenience and frustration that Mr L incurred on those 
online chats. And consequently, Im satisfied that the £100 compensation as recommended 
by our investigator is a fair compensation amount here.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr L was wanting, but while I will be upholding this 
complaint in his favour, Ill only be doing so in order to instruct Barclays to make the £100 
compensation payment to him. I hope Mr L will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision here that I have.
Putting things right
Barclays must make a payment of £100 to Mr L.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman