DRN-2180437
The complaint
Miss E complains that Monzo Bank Ltd reported her account to a credit reference agency 
without her consent, and wrongly reported it as the wrong kind of account.
What happened
Miss E has an account with Monzo. There is a dispute about what kind of account it is. She 
describes it as a pre-paid Mastercard; Monzo describes it as a current account. The account 
has an overdraft facility, but Miss E does not use it. She objects to Monzo reporting the 
account to a credit reference agency, on the grounds that, firstly, she never consented to 
this; secondly, Monzo has never lent her money so there is no credit to report; and thirdly, 
Monzo is wrongly reporting the account as a bank account when it isnt one.
Monzo told Miss E that she had consented to its reporting of her data to a credit reference 
agency when she opened the account, because the terms and conditions and Monzos 
privacy notice had told her this would happen. Monzo does not accept that the data it is 
reporting is inaccurate. It told her that if she withdrew her consent to reporting then it would 
have to close her account. Being dissatisfied with Monzos response, Miss E brought this 
complaint to our Service. She asked for £10,000 compensation.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He agreed with Monzo that the account was a 
current account and that Monzo had made it clear when the account was opened that it 
would report the account on Miss Es credit file. Miss E asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read a record of an online chat Miss E had with Monzo in June 2019 in which she 
discussed the kind of account she had. I will quote an excerpt (omitting some parts for 
brevity):
MONZO: Monzo only offers one type of card; a MasterCard. These 
accounts are called current account.
MISS E: So it's not a "current bank account", it's "MasterCard current 
account", is that right
MONZO: I believe they are both the same thing, you have a UK Current 
Account
MISS E:  Since you have sent me a MasterCard, This account would be 
MasterCard prepaid card with current account.
MONZO:  we do not offer pre-paid cards anymore. So these would just 
be normal Mastercard current account.
MISS E: If it was current bank account, you would sent me debit card. 
But I've got MasterCard, so the account is MasterCard current account
From reading all that, it seems to me that Miss E thinks that Mastercard doesnt do debit 
cards, leading her to conclude that because she has a Mastercard, her Monzo account cant 
be a regular current account. However, that is not the case. Mastercards website explains 
that it does offer Mastercard debit cards for current accounts.1 And Monzos terms and 
conditions make it clear that the account has an overdraft facility, which would not be the 
case if it was just a pre-paid card account. I am therefore satisfied that the account is 
accurately described on Miss Es credit file.
I have read Monzos terms and conditions2 and its privacy notice.3 I wont quote them here, 
because the investigator has already quoted them at length. But they explain that Monzo will 
share information about the account with a credit reference agency, and that if a customer is 
no longer content to allow this then Monzo will close their account. So Im satisfied that by 
opening and using this account, Miss E was consenting to Monzo doing this. I recognise that 
she didnt realise that and that she probably didnt mean to, but I dont think that is Monzos 
fault.
I accept that Miss E never used her overdraft facility, but it was there, and so Monzo had a 
duty to report her account each month. A bank doesnt only report a current account when it 
is overdrawn. It reports it every month, regardless of what the balance is, because it is a 
credit agreement. This is normal practice, and I cannot see that Miss E has been 
disadvantaged by it.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
1 See https://www.mastercard.co.uk/en-gb/consumers/find-card-products/debit-cards.html
2 See https://monzo.com/legal/terms-and-conditions/version-1-7/
3 See https://monzo.com/legal/privacy-notice/version-1-4/