DRN-3253074
The complaint
Mr S complains that a finance agreement brokered by Lets Talk Finance Limited (LTF) was 
misrepresented to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint LTF, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
If Mr S was given a false statement of fact and if that false statement of fact led him to enter 
into an agreement he wouldnt otherwise have entered into, Id think the agreement had 
been misrepresented to him and Id ask LTF to do something about it.
Was there a false statement of fact?
I think there was. The order form Mr S agreed to made no mention of any deposit but the 
finance agreement did. And by that time Mr S had already paid an arrangement fee to cover 
LTFs administration costs when brokering the agreement - the details of which he hadnt 
been made fully aware of.
Would Mr S have entered into the agreement had it not been for the false statement?
LTF say Mr S had no intention of doing so. Theyve explained that he tried to cancel the 
agreement the day after the order form was issued and theyve also explained that the 
deposit was always to be paid by the dealership. LTF say that the order form was always 
subject to change.
Mr S says he wouldnt have entered into an agreement where there was no clarity about who 
was going to pay the deposit.
Ive seen a copy of the email Mr S sent to LTF the day after he signed the order form. Mr S 
said he didnt want to proceed with the agreement as the payments and insurance are more 
than my intended budget. He didnt withdraw from the agreement because he was told by 
LTF that he wouldnt get his arrangement fee back and hed need to pay a cancellation fee. 
At that point Mr S was unaware there was a deposit required. If hed been aware I dont think 
he would have proceeded with the agreement. I say that because hed already expressed 
reservations that the agreement wasnt affordable and if hed been told there was, potentially 
another £2373.25 to pay I think that would have reinforced his view.
LTF have explained that Mr S would never have had to pay that deposit. When they sent 
Mr S the finance documents on 27 April 2021 they explained that the deposit would be paid 
by the dealership directly to Mr S.
But that wasnt something Mr S was aware of when he placed the order and thats not what 
the finance agreement said. The agreement said Mr S was responsible for making the 
advance payment and I dont think he would have proceeded with the order had he been told 
that in the first place.
LTF have explained that they took advice from the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA) and theyve suggested the advice was supportive. That advice was 
provided over the phone and as there are no call records I dont know what LTF told the 
BVRLA about the case or what they were told in return. Ive not been able to take that 
evidence into account. 
Overall, Im persuaded that the agreement was misrepresented to Mr S.
Putting things right
LTF should put Mr S back in the position he would have been in had the misrepresentation 
not have taken place. 
To achieve that Im asking LTF to refund the arrangement and cancellation fees and to add 
interest to those refunds as Mr S has been deprived of the money.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Lets Talk Finance Limited to 
refund the arrangement and cancellation fees Mr S paid and to add 8% simple interest per 
year to those refunds from the dates of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman