DRN-3047167
The complaint
Mr R says hes had poor service from Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) both 
when he wanted to make a lump sum overpayment and since.
 
What happened
Mr R contacted Halifax in early November 2020 to ask about making a lump sum payment 
on his mortgage. After a couple more calls he made a payment of about £41,000  roughly  
25% of the amount outstanding.
Mr R wants to permanently reduce the term of his mortgage, but says that a requirement for 
him to undergo a full financial assessment to do this is unnecessary  and that, furthermore, 
this wasnt explained properly to him in some of the calls he made.
When Mr R complained to Halifax about this it said as a responsible lender it was required to 
undertake a financial review in such circumstances.
Mr R asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator noted the content of two calls 
between Mr R and Halifax, and thought it had been explained that hed need to go through 
the review process  so they thought Mr R had been given the correct information.
Mr R doesnt agree and pointed out that our investigator had missed at least one of his calls. 
And he thinks it unreasonable for Halifax to agree a payment holiday without a financial 
check but not to reduce the term of the mortgage which he believes to be much less risky. 
He also believes hes still paying the same level of interest despite paying such a large lump 
sum off his mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint, and Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the same two calls as our investigator. Those are the only two Halifax was 
able to find. But I have seen notes about a third call  made a couple of weeks before the 
two that we have recordings for  so I think Ive now been able to review all the calls relating 
to this complaint.
When Mr R first called, the notes made at the time say he was enquiring about how to make 
an overpayment. I can see the member of staff told him to call when he was ready to make 
the payment and they would take him through the process. He was also told he could either 
reduce his monthly repayment or the term of his mortgage. Theres no mention of him having 
to undergo a financial assessment before the term could be reduced. But as I am unable to 
listen to the call, I cant say if should have been discussed at the time, as the notes seem to 
reflect a general discussion and not that Mr R was requesting a term reduction at that point.
The first call recording I listened to was, by and large, about Mr Rs mortgage being moved 
to Halifax from another lender and how it was being recorded on a new system. The call also 
covered the fact that Halifax had written to Mr R about this, even thought hed not received 
the letter at that point. There was a discussion about registering for online management of 
his account, and finally the call covered the fact that Mr R couldnt make a payment during 
this call  but he could have the number of a phone based automated payment system if he 
wanted to pay that way. Mr R was content to take that number. There was no enquiry from 
Mr R about how to reduce the term in this call.
Three days later he called again. During this call Mr R was told that, after he made the 
planned overpayment, if he wanted to reduce the term of the mortgage hed need to spend 
some time carrying out a financial review  45 minutes is mentioned  with another member 
of staff. Mr R took the number to call to do this, and didnt query the need for a review.
I cant say the member of staff did anything wrong here.
Halifax has sent us the terms and conditions that apply to Mr Rs mortgage  and they do 
say that if he wants to permanently reduce the length of the term, hell have to speak to an 
adviser who would discuss current and future plans. I accept that Mr R hadnt seen these 
when he was enquiring about making the one off payment, but this point doesnt seem 
unreasonable to me. I say that because Halifax is entitled to make commercial decisions 
about how it allows (or doesnt allow) customers to change the mortgage agreement they 
have. And Halifax isnt saying it wont reduce the term but instead that it wants to comply 
with its obligations as a responsible lender. I dont think its appropriate for me to intervene in 
that, even if Mr R does think this is unnecessary.
I dont think I can compare what Halifax did with regards to the payment holiday it offered Mr 
R with the request to reduce the term of the mortgage formally. I understand payment 
holidays were offered in response to the covid-19 pandemic, and that was an extraordinary 
set of circumstances. But the fact that Halifax might have waived its normal checks in 
response to this doesnt mean it has to that permanently.
Finally Mr R says he was still at one point paying the same amount of interest on his 
mortgage despite reducing the capital outstanding by about 25%. Halifax said this was only 
because it took a few days for the new levels of interest to show, and that it is only charging 
interest on the new, lower, capital amount. So it doesnt look to me as though this was a long 
term issue, or that Mr R has been financially disadvantaged here.
My final decision
Based on all Ive said above, Im not going to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022. 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman