DRN-3283440
The complaint
Mr B complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (Legal & General) 
changed the term of his over 50s Life policy without his knowledge.
What happened
In July 2013 Mr B had a phone call with Legal & General and discussed his protection 
needs. A policy was taken out, and during the conversation Mr B feels that he was told hed 
stop paying premiums when he turned 80 years old.
On 11 February 2021 Legal & General sent Mr B a letter which stated it would stop collecting 
premiums on his 90th birthday. Mr B complained, he felt the terms had been changed from 
what was originally agreed and felt it would be unfair for him to have to pay an additional 10 
years of premiums. Legal & General disagreed and the complaint was referred to our 
service.
Our Investigator found that Legal & General had provided correct information regarding the 
point at which premiums would stop being collected. Our Investigator didnt think there was 
enough evidence to suggest that any discussion which took place at the point of sale had 
suggested the policy would be paid up when Mr B turned 80 years old. 
Mr B disagreed. He explained he never received any documents which stated premiums 
would end at age 90 and he provided all documentation he held to demonstrate this. He 
requested that an Ombudsman review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key considerations of this case are whether Legal & General did enough to effectively 
communicate the correct terms of the policy at the point of sale, and whether there is any 
evidence to suggest it has changed these terms since then.
Mr B feels that he was told the policy would be paid up at age 80. I recognise                      
Mr Bs recollections about the time of sale, but I must weigh his recollections against the 
consideration of any documentary evidence available and decide what is most likely to have 
happened. Having done so, Im not satisfied there is enough evidence to persuade me that, 
more likely than not, Mr B was told or led to believe the policy he took out would be paid up 
when he reached age 80.
This is because I havent seen anything to suggest Mr B was told this was the case. The key 
features documents for the policy states If you reach your 90th birthday, you stop paying 
premiums. The policy schedule also confirms: premiums are payable during the lifetime of 
the Life Insured up to and including the Life Insureds 90th birthday. And the terms and 
conditions sent to Mr B say: Premiums are due up to and including your 90th birthday. As 
there is no point at which the documentation suggested the policy would be paid up at age 
80, Im satisfied that it was reasonably clear the policy would instead be paid up when        
Mr B reached age 90.
I appreciate that I cant say with certainty what was discussed verbally at the time of sale 
due to the lack of a recording being available, but all documentation available explains how 
the policy would be paid up at age 90. Legal & General have also been able to provide the 
call script used at the time by its staff and this again confirms when you reach 90, you stop 
paying the premiums.  Im satisfied the documentation is the most reliable representation of 
what happened available to me. So, I cant reasonably conclude that Legal & General misled 
Mr B about the nature of the policy as the balance of evidence doesnt support this. Im 
satisfied that Mr B was reasonably informed that the policy premiums would stop when he 
reached age 90, and so Im also satisfied that Legal & General havent changed this term of 
his policy.
I appreciate that Mr B has explained how none of the documents he now holds state that 
premiums would cease at age 90  and hes submitted these for review. But Im satisfied he 
was originally sent the other documents listed above that did contain the relevant 
information. Mr B is adamant that he never received this paperwork, but Im satisfied it was 
sent to the correct address at the time. Additionally one of the letters Mr B has provided 
states the key features and policy schedule were enclosed - Id have expected to see some 
evidence of Mr B querying this with the business at the time if they werent in fact sent.
So, whilst I cant say with certainty what was discussed verbally at the time of sale, the 
documentation available means I cant reasonably conclude that Legal & General misled    
Mr B or altered the terms of the policy after it was taken out.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman