DRN-2336534
The complaint
Mr R complains that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) mishandled his legal expenses 
insurance claim.
Amtrust use intermediaries to administer their legal expenses insurance and manage claims 
on their behalf, so any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as 
including the acts or omissions of such intermediaries. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr Rs concerns centre predominantly around the quality of the advice provided by the 
solicitors  i.e. the legal assessment that concluded his claim had less than 51% chance of 
success (also known as a prospects assessment). He has said, for example, that the 
assessment was biased and unfair. But as the investigator has already highlighted, Amtrust 
is the legal expenses insurance provider, not the suitably qualified expert dealing with the 
legal claim or assessing its prospects. As such, our role is to assess the insurers handling of 
the claim in light of the policy terms to determine whether theyve fulfilled their obligations 
reasonably and dealt with the claim fairly. 
Were unable to consider the quality of legal advice (unless it is patently wrong) or the 
actions of a law firm as this falls under the remit of the Legal ombudsman. Should Mr R want 
to complain about the legal assessment provided, he would therefore need to direct any 
such complaint to the solicitor and/or Legal Ombudsman, as Amtrust is not responsible for 
this. 
I can, however, consider whether it was reasonable for Amtrust to rely on the solicitors legal 
advice as the basis for declining Mr Rs claim. Generally speaking, its reasonable for an 
insurer to rely on the advice of suitably qualified professionals, unless that advice is patently 
wrong  i.e. where there are obvious mistakes, or it is flawed to the point that even a lay 
person would see that it was not reasonable to rely on it.
Amtrust instructed their panel solicitors to carry out a legal assessment after Mr R submitted 
his claim. The solicitors advised that the claim did not have sufficient prospects of success, 
which was a requirement for cover under the policy. Amtrust instructed their panel solicitors 
to carry out another assessment in light of further information provided by Mr R, and 
subsequently referred the matter to counsel in January 2020. The barrister reported:
I cannot find any fault with the initial Advice and Supplementary advice that was 
provided to you, and I conclude that I do not think that your claims enjoy an overall 
success prospect of more than 51% chance of success.
So, neither of the legal assessments carried out by the suitably qualified legal professionals 
(including a barrister) determined that Mr Rs claim had prospects of success in excess of 
51%. I appreciate that Mr R disagreed with this. But he has not submitted any expert 
evidence that would suggest the solicitors/barristers advice in relation to the prospects of 
his claim was wrong. So theres currently no basis in which to conclude that Amtrust were 
incorrect to rely on the advice of the legal professionals when deciding that they would not 
cover Mr Rs claim. He says that from his perspective his claim was genuine and valid. But 
Mr Rs opinion cannot reasonably outweigh that of a solicitor or barrister; for example, even 
where a policyholder is himself legally qualified, he cant act as an independent expert in his 
own cause. 
I appreciate that Mr Rs former employer eventually agreed to settle his claim, but this does 
not mean that the claim would have succeeded at tribunal or that the prospects assessments 
were flawed. Im therefore satisfied that Amtrust have acted fairly and reasonably by 
declining the claim.
Mr R says he wants Amtrust to cover the legal costs he incurred when instructing his own 
solicitor. But the policy sets out:
There is no cover where
c) Advisers costs or any other costs and expenses incurred which have not been 
agreed in advance or are above those for which we have given our prior written 
approval
Given that Mr Rs claim did not meet the policy requirements for reasonable prospects of 
success, the insurer is under no obligation to cover his legal fees. And even if the claim was 
covered, he incurred these legal fees without the agreement of the insurer, so there would 
be no contractual basis in which they would be covered under the policy in any event.
I think Amtrust have handled Mr Rs claim fairly throughout, as they instructed the panel 
solicitors to reconsider the claims prospects when Mr R disagreed with the assessment. 
They also referred it to counsel for a further professional opinion. So Im satisfied theyve 
been robust in their assessment of Mr Rs insurance claim, and I do not consider there to be 
any fair and reasonable basis in which Amtrust can be held liable for the legal costs Mr R 
has incurred. 
In summary, and having considered all the evidence and arguments, Im not persuaded 
Amtrust have done anything wrong, so I will not be directing them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman