DRN-4088486
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc havent refunded money he lost as a result of a 
scam. 
Mr B is being represented by a claims management company but for ease of reading Ill only 
refer to Mr B in my decision. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In 2019 Mr B invested £600 towards online cryptocurrency. He was then contacted by a 
merchant in 2022 who told him that the investment he had made in 2019 was now worth 
£80,000 but he needed to pay 1% of that amount to move the money or it would be frozen. 
After he made the payment, Mr B was contacted by the merchant who told him they could 
help him with trading cryptocurrency. So, Mr B decided to make further payments by debit 
card and his online banking via a genuine electronic money remittance company. In total 
Mr B sent around £15,850.  
Mr B realised he had been scammed when the merchant stopped responding to him and 
failed to show up to an agreed meeting. 
So, Mr B contacted HSBC to complain and ask for his money back. HSBC considered the 
complaint but decided not to offer Mr B a refund. It said the payments werent unusual and it 
couldnt recover the payments on Mr Bs behalf. Unhappy with this response, Mr B brought 
his complaint to this service. 
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said HSBC hadnt treated 
Mr B unfairly by not attempting a chargeback on the payments Mr B made on his debit card 
because the payments had been made to an account in his name with a legitimate payment 
services provider. And the Investigator didnt think the payments were unusual when 
compared to Mr Bs previous account history. 
Mr B disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said it was unusual for him to 
send money to the electronic money provider and the previous genuine payments the 
Investigator had relied upon were to established payees on his account which were 
abnormal expenditure for him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr B feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Recovery
Ive thought about whether HSBC did enough to attempt to recover the money Mr B lost, as 
there are some instances where debit card transactions can be refunded through making a 
chargeback claim. And APP payments can sometimes be recovered from the beneficiary 
bank. 
A chargeback wouldnt have been successful for the debit card payments to the account in 
Mr Bs name at a legitimate payment services provider, as Mr B was able to move the 
money onto the scammers. So, Mr B duly received the service he paid for on his debit card. 
The money was subsequently lost from his other account when it was moved to the 
scammers. So, he couldnt claim that he didnt receive the goods or services paid for from 
his HSBC account. The same can be said for the APPs Mr B made to the account in his 
name. Hes told HSBC and this service that the money was moved on to the scammers and 
therefore HSBC wouldnt be able to recover any money on his behalf. 
As a result, I dont think HSBC have acted unreasonably by failing to pursue a chargeback 
claim and not attempting to recover Mr Bs money here.
Prevention
While I dont think that HSBC could have done more with regards to the recovery of 
Mr Bs funds once it was made aware of the situation, Ive also considered whether it ought 
to have intervened before allowing any of the payments to be made.
Under regulations and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks 
should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The starting position 
is that liability for authorised payments rests with the payer, even where they are duped into 
making that payment. There is no dispute that Mr B made the APP and debit card payments, 
and so they were authorised. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customer as a result.
What this means is that as a starting point Mr B is liable for these transactions unless theres 
evidence that HSBC could and should reasonably have done more to protect him and that 
this would have made a difference. 
It isnt in dispute that HSBC has (and had) obligations to be alert to fraud and to act in its 
customers best interests. So, the starting point here is whether the instructions Mr B gave to 
HSBC when authorising the debit card and online payments were unusual in relation to the 
typical account activity.
I dont think the payments Mr B made to the scammers were sufficiently unusual at the time 
for HSBC to step in and ask more questions even if they were to a new payee in this 
instance. Thats because the first payment he made towards this scam was for a small 
amount. And I note from his statements he made similar and larger payments before the 
scam started, ranging from £4,000 to £30,000 in July 2022. Although Mr B has said these 
previous genuine payments were abnormal for his account, theyre still considered a part of his payment history. And because the scam payments were made over the course of a few 
weeks, I dont think HSBC has treated him unfairly by not stopping them here. 
So, it follows that I dont think the activity was so unusual, for this particular account, where I 
think it wouldve been reasonable for HSBC to have intervened and to have spoken to Mr B 
before processing them. I also dont think there were any other reasons for HSBC to have 
done more before following the instructions Mr B provided.
I appreciate my decision leaves Mr B in a difficult position and that he has lost a lot of money 
to this scam. And Im sorry to hear about the effect the scam has had on him. But, for the 
reasons Ive explained Im not going to ask HSBC to do anything more here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman