DRN-3878869
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service he received from Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin 
Money, after he was the victim of a scam.
What happened
In June 2022, Mr Cs wife received a number of messages through an instant messaging 
service from someone claiming to be their daughter. The messages initially said they had 
lost their phone and so were using a temporary number. Then they said they had a bill that 
needed paying but couldnt access their mobile banking, so asked if Mr and Mrs C would pay 
the bill for them. As Mr and Mrs C believed the messages were coming from their daughter, 
they agreed and Mr C made a payment of £933.21 from his account to the bank details the 
messages gave him. Unfortunately, we now know the messages were coming from a 
scammer.
The scam was uncovered after the messages asked if the payment had been made. Mr and 
Mrs C then became suspicious and Mrs C phoned their daughters husband, who confirmed 
the daughter hadnt sent them any messages. Mr C then reported the payment to 
Clydesdale Bank as fraud, and asked it to refund the money he had lost.
Clydesdale Bank investigated and initially said both it and Mr C were liable, so refunded 50% 
of the money he had lost. It also offered Mr C £50 compensation for the poor customer 
service he had received when raising his claim. Mr C wasnt satisfied with this, so 
Clydesdale Bank reviewed the case again and agreed to refund 100% of the money Mr C 
had lost, and to pay him a further £30 compensation. Mr C remained unsatisfied with the 
amount of compensation Clydesdale Bank had offered, and so referred a complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They said they felt the amount of 
compensation Clydesdale Bank had offered was reasonable, so they didnt think it should 
have to pay anything further. Mr C disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Clydesdale Bank has already refunded the money Mr C lost as a result of this scam, plus 
interest. So it has already put him back in the position he would have been in had he not 
fallen victim to this scam. And so I havent considered the money he lost any further.
Mr C has said hes unhappy with the way he was treated by Clydesdale Bank when he first 
raised this claim. Hes said Clydesdale Bank didnt show any empathy or understanding and 
that hes been caused a significant amount of stress by the amount of time it took for 
Clydesdale Bank to agree to refund all the money he lost. He doesnt think the £80 
compensation Clydesdale Bank has offered is fair.
Ive listened to recordings of the calls with Clydesdale Bank about this claim. And I agree 
that the customer service Clydesdale Bank provided fell below the standard wed expect, 
particularly in the call when the scam is first reported. I think the Clydesdale Bank employee 
was abrupt and sounded disinterested and unsympathetic.
But firstly, it was Mrs C, not Mr C, who had this call with Clydesdale Bank. And I can only 
consider the distress and inconvenience suffered by the person bringing the complaint. And 
as the payment sent to the scammer here was sent from a sole account in Mr Cs name, he 
is the person bringing the complaint and so I can only consider the distress and 
inconvenience he personally suffered.
So while I agree that the customer service Clydesdale Bank provided in this call was poor, I 
think the majority of the distress and inconvenience this will have caused will have been to 
Mrs C, rather than Mr C.
And secondly, Clydesdale Bank has accepted that the service it provided could have been 
more appropriate. It has now offered its sympathy to Mr and Mrs C for the situation they 
found themselves in when they became the victims of a scam. And it has apologised for the 
service they received and paid a total of £80 compensation for this poor service.
And I think this is in line with what the Financial Ombudsman Service would have 
recommended in these circumstances for the poor customer service Clydesdale provided 
and the distress and inconvenience it caused. And so I think this is a fair and reasonable 
resolution to this complaint.
I appreciate how strongly Mr C feels about this complaint, and that my decision will likely 
come as a disappointment to him. But I dont think the customer service Clydesdale Bank 
provided in its other contact with him fell significantly below the level wed expect.
Clydesdale Bank is also entitled to investigate what has happened and consider whether it is 
responsible for refunding the full amount a customer has lost. So I dont think it would be fair 
to require it to pay further compensation for not initially refunding Mr C in full. And it is 
important to remember that the initial cause of the loss Mr C suffered, and the distress and 
inconvenience he was caused, was the scammer  rather than Clydesdale Bank.
And so I dont think it would be fair to require Clydesdale Bank to pay any further 
compensation here.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman