DRN-3133404
The complaint
Mr H complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) decided to stop sending 
Premium Bond prizes by cheque.
What happened
Mr H says NS&I decided to stop sending Premium Bond prizes by cheque or warrant and 
insisted that customers provide bank details so that any prizes could be paid directly into a 
bank account. He says that decision is unfair as he does not have modern technology and is 
concerned about the security risks in providing his account details. Mr H says if NS&I can 
notify him of any winnings by post then why cant it continue to send him a cheque for any 
winnings. He says older customers of NS&I are being victimised and suggests a phased 
approach for these changes that would only affect new customers.
NS&I initially said it was entitled to change the terms and conditions of the Premium Bond 
accounts but has since reversed its decision. 
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought NS&I was entitled in line with 
account terms and conditions to change the way in which it tells customers about any win 
and how it paid any prizes. The investigator didnt think there any security risk by providing 
account details and didnt think NS&I had acted unfairly.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and in summary questions why NS&I hasnt told its customers 
in writing of the decision to reverse the removal of cheque payments. He says NS&I 
promised an apology to him and says there are numerous examples of data breaches.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont require NS&I to do anything 
further in the circumstances of it.
I appreciate Mr Hs concerns about the initial change in NS&Is policy and his main concern, 
which was the security of his account details. I also accept what Mr H says that he doesnt 
have modern technology. But I hope Mr H appreciates that we are not NS&Is regulator and 
so its not our role to tell it how it runs its business. In any event NS&I has reversed the 
proposed change and so there is no need for me to comment further on that initial decision.
Mr Hs complaint has evolved since NS&I made the reversal decision and he says although 
he knew about the decision, he ought to have been told about it in writing. NS&I says it 
would have had to have written to 25m customers. I appreciate Mr Hs point and I accept 
there may have been those unaware of the reversal decision. But I can only comment on Mr 
Hs complaint and Im satisfied that he was aware of the decision to reverse the decision. 
And for the reasons I have already explained it is not our role to tell a business how it 
communicates with its customers. I have not seen any evidence on NS&Is records that it 
promised Mr H an apology and dont think that what took place justifies an individual apology 
in any event.
Overall, Im satisfied that NS&I has done what Mr H wanted and reversed a policy decision 
he disagreed with. In those circumstances I cant fairly order NS&I do anything further and 
am satisfied this brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do. I 
dont think there is any justification for compensation here or that Mr H suffered any financial 
or other loss.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman