DRN-3604958
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to refund money she lost as 
part of a romance scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Mrs C lost over £8000 to a romance scam in 2020. She had 
met the scammer on social media and began sending payments to him after being told he 
was a doctor for the US army based in Syria, and that she would need to pay the army for 
his early retirement in order for him to leave so they could get married.
Barclays refused to refund Mrs Cs loss under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
Code as it said she ignored an effective warning and also had no reasonable basis for 
believing the payee was legitimate.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He didnt think the warning provided by Barclays was 
impactful enough, and also considered that Mrs C had a reasonable basis for believing the 
payments were genuine as the scammer had sent her photos and had built trust with her. 
Barclays disagreed, so the matter was escalated to me to determine.  
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in July 2022, I said I was minded to uphold 
it, but on a different basis to the investigator, and set out the following reasoning:
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Barclays should reimburse some or all of the money Mrs C lost in line with the 
provisions of the CRM Code it has signed up to and whether it ought to have done 
more to protect her from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
There is no dispute that Mrs C has been the victim of a scam. She was tricked into 
making the payments after messaging someone who had gained her trust and was 
under the impression she would marry. But this isnt enough in and of itself for Mrs C 
to receive a refund of all the money she lost from her account. 
Under the provisions of the CRM Code, both the bank and its customer have 
obligations. If it can be shown that the customer has met their requisite level of care 
then they will receive full reimbursement. If the customer has not done this, then it is 
for the firm to show that it has met its obligations under the Code. The most relevant 
obligation for the firm is to provide an Effective Warning. If a firm has not met its 
obligations then it, subject to any liability by the bank which received the money, will 
be liable for 50% of the customers loss.
Having carefully considered the circumstances of this case, I dont think Mrs C had a 
reasonable basis for believing the person/people she was paying were legitimate or 
were who they said they were. But neither do I think Barclays provided an Effective 
Warning to her either. So, Im currently minded to find the fair outcome is for 
Barclays to refund 50% of Mrs Cs losses. Ill explain how I have reached this 
conclusion below.
Did Mrs C meet her Requisite Level of Care under the CRM Code?
I have first considered whether Mrs C failed to take the requisite level of care 
required for Barclays to choose not to reimburse her under the terms of the CRM 
Code.
The CRM Code requires payment service providers to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams like this, in all but 
limited circumstances. It is for Barclays to establish that a customer failed to meet a 
requisite level of care under one, or more, of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM 
Code.
The exceptions relevant to this case are:
The customer ignored an Effective Warning in relation to the payment being 
made.
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing 
that: the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the 
payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business 
with whom they transacted was legitimate.
So I need to consider whether these exceptions apply to Mrs Cs case.
Did Mrs C ignore an Effective Warning?
The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, 
they should provide Effective Warnings to their customers. I accept that Mrs C was 
shown a warning when she set up the new payee and that the warning displayed was 
generated after she had selected the purpose of sending money to family/friends. I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Mrs C to have picked this option in the 
circumstances of the romance scam. 
The warning Mrs C was presented with stated:
If somebody else has asked or pressured you to make this payment online, 
such as through a social media or dating site, then you should take time to 
think about it before sending the payment. We recommend that you speak to 
someone impartial as well.
I dont think this warning was impactful or went far enough to be effective. It only said 
that Mrs C should take time to think about the payment and talk to somebody 
impartial; it failed to ensure that she could reasonably understand the consequences 
of continuing with an irrevocable payment in such circumstances. So, I dont think it 
could have positively impacted her decision making. It also wasnt specific to the 
scam she was falling for and doesnt bring romance scams to life in general. So, Im 
not persuaded Barclays provided an Effective Warning in line with the requirements 
set out by the CRM Code.
Did Mrs C have a reasonable basis for believing the payments she made were 
legitimate?
Ive also thought about the steps Mrs C took to reassure herself about the legitimacy of the transactions and whether it was reasonable for her to proceed with the 
payment. Having done so, I am not persuaded that she had a reasonable basis for 
believing that the payee was the person she was expecting to pay, the payment was 
for genuine goods or services and the person she transacted with were legitimate. 
This is not a finding I have made lightly, and I have considered that the scammer was 
able to build trust and rapport with Mrs C over time with the promise of marrying her, 
and had also sent her pictures of the supposed work he was carrying out in Syria as 
part of the US army. However, there were several indications that she ought to have 
recognised meant that she wasnt dealing with a legitimate person. I say this 
because:
She had not once spoken to the scammer by voice or video call. I understand 
she had been sent pictures and videos and was told he could not call, but the 
fact that she was not able to speak to the person who had promised to marry 
her should have led to a greater degree of checking on Mrs Cs part before 
she agreed to send money.
The reasons given for her having to pay the money were also very unusual 
and unrealistic. She was told, for example, that the only way the scammer 
could marry Mrs C is if she paid for his retirement from the army, and that she 
would have to sort this with the army headquarters. It seems very implausible 
that anyone would have to pay for another persons retirement, or that the 
only way for someone in the US army to return home would be if they had a 
wife to return to or a person to marry.
Mrs C had been given a Gmail address to correspond with for the US army 
headquarters. It did not appear official or look like it had any links to the US 
army. 
She was also told that she would have to pay around £19,000 in order to 
release a 43kg package containing the scammers belongings, which seems 
like a very large and implausible amount to have to pay in taxes in order for 
someones personal effects and documents to be released by customs. I also 
cannot see that Mrs C researched any of the courier companies she was 
contacted by in order to check they were genuine. 
Its clear that at some stages Mrs C also had doubts and asked the scammer 
about her concerns. But she relied on the scammers answers that it was all 
ok and didnt reasonably do enough to assuage those doubts.
Overall, I think there was enough going on to have raised significant concerns about 
the transactions Mrs C was making from the start. And this ought reasonably to have 
led her to take a more cautious approach, as she rightly did when she eventually 
spoke to an independent third party who informed her she was being scammed. But 
she ought to have taken such steps at the outset in light of the suspicious 
circumstances presented, so I think further steps could and should have been taken 
in order for her to meet the required level of care under the CRM Code. 
Did Barclays meet its standards as a firm under the CRM Code?
Even though I dont think Mrs C had a reasonable basis for belief when making the 
payments, she may still be entitled to a refund of 50% of the money she lost if 
Barclays didnt meet its obligations under the CRM Code, one of which is to provide 
Effective Warnings.The CRM code says that, where firms identify APP scam risks, they should provide 
Effective Warnings to their customers. It sets out that an Effective Warning should 
enable a customer to understand what actions they need to take to address a risk 
and the consequences of not doing so. And it says that, as a minimum, an Effective 
Warning should be understandable, clear, impactful, timely and specific. Whilst Mrs C 
typically made payments around this size, Barclays is still required to provide an 
Effective Warning upon identification of a scam risk. In this case, Barclays did identify 
a scam risk and it provided a written warning to Mrs C as part of the payment journey 
when setting up a new payee.
Earlier in this decision I concluded Mrs C did not ignore an Effective Warning. I was 
not persuaded that Barclays warning to her was impactful enough in the 
circumstances of this scam to meet the minimum requirements of an Effective 
warning under the CRM Code. It follows that I am not persuaded that Barclays has 
provided such a warning to Mrs C.
Mrs C is not an expert in scams and doesnt have the same level of knowledge or 
experience of this type of scam as the building society does. If Barclays warning had 
given advice on how Mrs C could have protected herself from this type of scam, and 
prominently explained the potential consequences of making an irrevocable payment, 
then I think this wouldve been important contextual information that would have had 
a material impact and affected her decision to go ahead and send the money. Ive not 
seen any evidence that persuades me it is more likely than not that Mrs C would 
have continued with the purchase regardless.
So, overall, as I dont think Mrs C met her requisite level of care, and also that 
Barclays could have done more to protect her, I think a 50% split of liability is a fair 
and reasonable outcome for her fraud claim under the CRM Code. There is no other 
reason why Barclays should be held further liable for the remainder of Mrs Cs 
losses.
I invited further comments and arguments in response to my decision. Barclays responded 
and accepted my provisional findings. Mrs C said she had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither of the parties had any further evidence or arguments to put forwards, I see 
no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision above. It follows 
that I uphold this complaint in part.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank PLC to:
Refund Mrs C 50% of the £8,833.57 she paid to the fraudster
Pay 8% simple interest on that sum from the date Barclays declined her claim under 
the CRM Code until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 Jack Ferris
Ombudsman