DRN-1488418
 
The complaint
Mrs H says Barclays Bank UK PLC (when it was trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
 What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1997. 
Mrs H told us that shes unhappy because shes been charged for a product that she never 
asked for and did not need. Mrs H said that she had other ways to pay her Barclaycard if she 
wasnt able to work.
Our adjudicator didnt feel this was a complaint we should uphold. Mrs H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. She disputes the way our adjudicator said Barclays sold her the PPI. 
So the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
Where theres only limited information and disagreement about what happened I have to 
look at everything and decide what I think is most likely. 
Barclays says, looking at the application form Mrs H completed, its one that couldve been 
used in a branch or sent to Mrs H in the post.
Mrs H is certain that she never had a meeting with anyone in a Barclays branch  she says 
shes sure she received her card through the post.
I dont think it would be reasonable to expect Mrs H to recall exactly how she applied for her 
Barclaycard after so long  and Ive no doubt shes correct when she says she remembers 
getting her card via the post at home. 
But Im thinking about how she applied for her Barclaycard in the first place  and whilst I've 
seen her completed application form, its not clear if she filled it in at a Barclays branch or at 
home after receiving the form in the post.
In order to be as fair as possible to Mrs H, Barclays looked at her complaint on the basis that 
shed taken it out during a meeting at the bank. Looking at her complaint this way gives Mrs Hs complaint the best chance of being upheld in her favour. So, in these circumstances, I 
think this is the fairest way to approach her complaint - and its how I will look at her 
complaint.
I think Barclays made Mrs H aware that the PPI was optional and she chose to take it. There 
was an option on the form to say she didnt require PPI. But Mrs H made it clear on the 
application form she signed that she wanted to include the PPI option. I dont know what, if 
anything, was discussed about the PPI. But there were clearly marked Yes and No tick 
boxes for PPI. In my view, Barclays made it reasonably clear that it was up to Mrs H to say if 
she wanted PPI or not  and the PPI was added to her account when she indicated on the 
form that she wanted to have it. 
If Mrs H applied for her Barclaycard and the PPI during a meeting at the bank, then Barclays 
says it would've recommended her to take out this PPI. In these circumstances, Barclays 
wouldve had an extra obligation, beyond just giving Mrs H information about PPI. If a 
financial business makes a recommendation about PPI, it has to take reasonable steps to 
make sure the cover it recommends is suitable as well as giving important policy information 
in a clear way.
Mrs H was eligible for the cover. 
Ive taken into account everything Mrs H has told us about her work benefits and what shes 
mentioned in response to the adjudicators assessment. But the policy wouldve paid more 
than her minimum credit card repayments, on top of any sick pay and, it appears, for longer - 
up to 12 months per claim if she was off work sick or disabled and she couldnt work. Mrs H 
told us she could only rely on her work benefits  she had no other ways to pay her credit 
card bills if she wasnt working. 
The policy wouldve also paid out if shed lost her job and was unemployed. 
Being entitled to redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped Mrs H if she was off work sick. 
And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve got if shed 
lost her job, giving her some additional financial security in those circumstances.
So it looks as if PPI was suitable for Mrs H based on what Ive seen of her circumstances 
when she took out her credit card with PPI. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mrs H chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this 
type of cover. Although there were some things the policy didnt cover, it doesnt look as if 
those applied in Mrs Hs case. So, I dont think having more information about things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve affected her decision to take it out. 
I dont know how much information Mrs H wouldve known about the policy cost and benefits 
 its possible Barclays didnt explain this as well as it shouldve done. But she chose to take 
out the policy when she didnt have to  and Ive seen nothing to suggest that it wasnt 
affordable for her. 
I've taken into account everything Mrs H has told us, including comments made in response 
to the adjudicators view. For the reasons Ive explained above, even if this was a postal 
application for PPI that Mrs H had filled in at home, this wouldnt affect the outcome. I 
appreciate its frustrating when Barclays cant say for certain how she applied for the PPI  
but I hope that setting out things as Ive done helps put Mrs Hs mind at rest on this point.  Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered Mrs H, I think it unlikely she wouldve made 
a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think shed still 
have taken out the policy. 
So I cant fairly say that Mrs H has lost out as a result of anything Barclays mightve done 
wrong. This means it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman