DRN-4073236
The complaint
Mrs W complains that an account she opened with Leeds Building Society wasnt as 
advertised.
 
As I understand it, in bringing her complaint, Mrs W is represented by Mr W. For ease, 
though, Ill refer to all actions as being those of Mrs W.
What happened
Mrs W holds an ISA with Leeds Building Society. The specific account she opened is called 
a 1 Year Fixed Rate ISA (Issue 164). It doesnt generally permit access to the capital once 
invested but, if a withdrawal is necessary, the account holder is subject to a 60-day interest 
penalty.
 
The account was opened in April 2022, and Mrs W expected her money to be invested for 
12 months from the date it was opened. So, she was unhappy when she discovered that her 
ISA wouldnt mature until the end of May 2023  meaning her money would be invested for 
around a month longer than shed anticipated.
 
Mrs W complained. In response, Leeds Building Society said that the ISA could receive 
funds until 31 May 2022. On 1 June 2022, it became fixed and no further deposits could be 
made.
 
So, to summarise, the fixed term didnt run for 12 months from the date the ISA was opened 
 but rather for 12 months from the last possible deposit date. Leeds Building Society said 
this was clear in the terms and conditions which govern the ISA, which Mrs W had agreed to 
upon opening.
 
Mrs W remained unhappy and she referred her complaint to our service for independent 
review. An investigator looked at what had happened, and he didnt think that Leeds Building 
Society had done something wrong. In short, he said:
During the account opening phone call, Mrs W had been asked whether shed read 
and understood the key features of the fixed rate ISA. She said she had and did. 
The terms and conditions of the ISA were clear about when it matured, with the 
literature distinctly defining the maturity date. 
Mrs W had been provided with a cooling-off period after agreeing to open the 
account, so she couldve cancelled if she wished to do so. 
Overall, Leeds Building Society hadnt mis-led Mrs W. 
Mrs W disagreed. She said that the ISA clearly specified  in its major title  that it was a 
one-year product. So, on that basis, the title misrepresents the product because it had a 
fixed end date regardless of when it was opened. Mrs W added that, with other financial 
institutions shed dealt with, products described as being for a one-year term were just that.
 
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill say at the outset that I can surely appreciate Mrs Ws point of view. Its not illogical to 
think that a one-year fixed term product would run for 12 months from the point it was 
opened, so I understand why shes disappointed by whats happened. 
That said, for me to conclude that Leeds Building Society has done something wrong Id 
need to see that it had made an error. Here, though, I dont think it has.
I say that because, from what Ive seen, Leeds Building Society opened and has operated 
Mrs Ws ISA in-line with the terms and conditions which govern it. Having reviewed the key 
facts documentation, I agree with our investigator in so much as Im satisfied that the ISAs 
maturity date is clearly defined. 
While Mrs W might find it unusual that this product operates in the manner it does, 
particularly when compared to others shes held with different providers, that doesnt mean 
that Leeds Building Society has made any mistakes. Ill also add, just for completeness, that 
I dont think its unreasonable for a product to work in the way this ISA does  even if it is 
slightly different to how others on the market might work. 
Separately, Ive noted Mrs Ws concern around the way Leeds Building Society advertised 
this product. But Im afraid thats not for me to review here, I cant comment on how 
appropriately the product was marketed or named. Instead, if Mrs W is concerned about 
Leeds Building Societys advertising, she will need to contact the Advertising Standards 
Authority.
 
What I will say, though, is that Im not persuaded Leeds Building Society mis-led Mrs W. 
Fundamentally, Im satisfied that the detail around how Mrs Ws ISA operates was 
sufficiently and clearly explained in the accompanying literature.
 
I am sorry to disappoint Mrs W with what Ive said here, but I do hope she understands my 
reasons for not upholding her complaint. I certainly see her perspective but, overall, I cant 
fairly say that Leeds Building Society has done something wrong. So, its on that basis that I 
dont require it to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman