DRN-4138638
The complaint
Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt do enough to protect 
him from losing money to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, Mr M has explained that in 2017 he was tricked by a scammer into 
making a payment of £10,000 from his NatWest account which he lost to a scam.  
 
NatWest didnt reimburse his lost funds, so Mr M referred his complaint about NatWest to us, 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators looked into things and didnt 
recommend the complaint should be upheld. Mr M remained unhappy, so the case has been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint for materially the same reasons as our Investigator. 
Ill explain why.  
 
I understand its not disputed in this case that Mr M was scammed. Im sorry if Mr M lost 
money to a scam, but this doesnt automatically entitle him to a refund from NatWest. It 
would only be fair for me to tell NatWest to reimburse Mr M if I thought it reasonably ought to 
have prevented the payment in the first place, or it unreasonably hindered recovery of the 
funds afterwards. 
 
Prevention 
 
Im satisfied Mr M authorised the relevant payment. NatWest would generally be expected to 
process a payment a customer authorises it to make. And under The Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the account, Mr M is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance, in circumstances where he authorised the payment. That said, as a 
matter of good industry practice NatWest should have taken proactive steps to identify and 
help prevent transactions  particularly sufficiently unusual, uncharacteristic or suspicious 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there are many 
payments made by customers each day and its not realistic or reasonable to expect a bank 
to stop and check every payment instruction. Theres a balance to be struck between 
identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to 
legitimate payments.  
 
In this case, NatWests records indicate it did recognise Mr Ms payment instruction made in 
branch as unusual, and it did discuss the payment with him before following his instruction to 
send it. This is what I would reasonably expect, given the circumstances of the payment 
instruction.  
 
To meet its obligations, NatWest ought to have discussed the payment instruction with Mr M 
(before it followed it) appropriately. But if NatWest didnt discuss it with Mr M appropriately, 
that wouldnt be enough by itself for me to uphold this complaint. To uphold this complaint on 
the basis that NatWest ought reasonably to have prevented the payment from being made, 
Id need to be persuaded that not only did NatWest fail to discuss the payment instruction 
with Mr M appropriately before it was executed, but also that its more likely than not, had 
NatWest intervened appropriately, that the payment would have been prevented.   
Otherwise, I couldnt fairly say NatWest caused Mr Ms loss nor, therefore, that it should be 
held responsible for it. 
 
I cant be sure about the extent of the in-branch discussions between Mr M and NatWest 
before the payment instruction was executed by NatWest. Available records indicate Mr M 
gave the reason for the payment as business investing online. And that he answered No 
to all the following questions:  
 
Have you been contacted by anyone claiming to be from the Bank, the Police or any 
other company asking you to make this payment to protect your bank account from 
fraud or alternatively asking you to return money which has been overpaid; and  
Have you been approached or cold called by anyone regarding work required to 
your property and are these funds for them; and  
Is this transaction as a result of a request from someone you have not actually met 
face to face. They may have befriended you online and now state they need funds 
urgently. Or they may be advising you of an investment opportunity, a competition 
win, or an inheritance windfall. 
 
Mr Ms payment was for an investment opportunity; but hed met the person face to face 
(and more than once). The above questions clearly couldnt cover every possible scam. And 
thats why in a situation like this I would expect NatWests discussion with Mr M to have 
been broader, with some open questions. As a starting point, Id reasonably expect NatWest 
to have asked Mr M who the payment was for, what it was for, and for the basic surrounding 
context  and to have then proceeded appropriately from there, with the intention to disturb 
or unearth a potential fraud or scam. 
 
If this had happened, Ive no reason to believe Mr M wouldnt have been open and upfront 
with NatWest. In which case, I think NatWest most likely would have learned from Mr M what 
he has since explained:  
 
The payment was headed to someone working for a merchant Ill call U, who was 
helping him with a cryptocurrency investment. The person had been recommended 
to him by a work colleague he trusted, who said shed made good profits and the 
investment was reliable and genuine.  
Hed met the payee a couple of times. On both occasions he felt assured of his 
professionalism and legitimacy. After the first meeting hed decided to think about 
things. No pressure had been placed on him to make the investment. And then he 
decided to go ahead (which is when he met with him the second time).  
He felt reassured because his work colleague recommended this person and 
emphasised she was making good profits; and also because of how genuine and 
professional things seemed at both meetings with the payee.  The payee helped him create a trading account; and the payment was going to the 
payee who would then deposit it onto his trading account, to begin trading. 
 
NatWest had no duty to protect Mr M from a bad bargain or to give investment advice. And 
Ive not seen any information that makes me think it should have known Mr M was being 
scammed (as distinguished from it being a possibility). As the Investigator stated, I dont 
think the fact that the proposed investment was in unregulated cryptocurrency would have 
given any insight into the actual legitimacy of the investment. I would reasonably have 
expected NatWest to caution Mr M about the possibility he was being scammed, and to 
question why the money was going to the payee and not directly to the trading account  
and to have asked him about the due diligence hed undertaken.  
 
Ultimately, though, I think its most likely Mr M would have wished to proceed. I think he 
would have explained why he was satisfied with things, and why the money was going to the 
payee first. Even if hed paused the payment to look further into it, it seems likely the 
scammer would have persuaded Mr M of a legitimate reason for this. I understand hed 
recently won £100,000 on the lottery and after some thought hed decided to accept his work 
colleagues recommendation, which he trusted, and he felt further reassured after meeting 
with the scammer  to put £10,000 into a cryptocurrency-type investment. I dont think it 
would have been proportionate for NatWest, nor that it ought to have been obliged, to 
prevent the payment against Mr Ms wishes. So Im satisfied NatWest didnt unreasonably 
miss an opportunity to prevent the payment, nor therefore Mr Ms loss.  
 
Recovery 
 
Ive considered whether, after the payment was made and NatWest was notified of the scam 
by Mr M, NatWest unreasonably hindered recovery of the funds. 
It seems to be a common occurrence in scams like this that the beneficiary account is 
drained of the funds promptly after receipt, presumably to limit chances of any potential 
recovery. I dont think it would be unfair to say in a case like this where the scam isnt 
discovered until quite some time after the payment, it would therefore tend to be unusual for 
the funds to remain in the beneficiary account by then. And here, when Mr M notified 
NatWest hed been scammed, NatWest got in touch with the beneficiary bank which said the 
funds were no longer available for recovery. Unfortunately, I dont think this is surprising. 
And Im satisfied therefore that NatWest cannot be said to have unreasonably hindered 
recovery of the funds, nor therefore that it can be held responsible for Mr M not being able to 
recover the funds. 
 
I realise this means Mr M is out of pocket, and Im sorry if hes lost this money. However, I 
think this would ultimately be the fault of the cruel and callous scammer. I cant reasonably 
tell NatWest to reimburse him in circumstances where I dont think it ought reasonably to 
have prevented the payment or been able to recover it.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman