DRN-3802628
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain that Society of Lloyd's trading as Lloyd's of London (Lloyds) 
unfairly declined their insurance claim for storm damage.
For ease of reading I will refer only to Mr C in my decision.
What happened
Mr C had an Elite Home (Listed Property) Insurance Policy with Lloyds that covered a 12 
month period from May 2021 to May 2022. Mr Cs home is a grade II listed building, built in 
the late 1700s and is situated at the top of a hill. As there werent any other tall buildings 
providing shelter nearby Mr C said his home had been damaged by the prolonged storms 
and driving rain that had been happening throughout the summer of 2021. He said this had 
caused some structural damage with the pointing being damaged and bricks falling to the 
ground. Mr C arranged for the building to be repaired at a cost in excess of £17,000 and he 
claimed for this against his insurance policy. But his claim was declined as Lloyds said the 
damage was caused by gradual deterioration and the weather conditions had only 
highlighted the existing damage. Mr C complained to Lloyds.
Lloyds said Mr C hadnt shown the damage was caused by a storm. They said the claim had 
been declined as the evidence supported gradual deterioration which was an exclusion 
under Mr Cs policy. They also said Mr C had the repair work done before any assessment 
of the damage could be looked at, and he hadnt been able to show any photographic 
evidence that the damage was storm related. 
Mr C wasnt happy with Lloyds response and added that Lloyds would no longer renew his 
insurance policy with them. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator agreed that there hadnt been a storm to elicit the damage and so Lloyds 
had acted fairly and reasonably in what theyd done. She also said the choice whether to 
renew was a commercial risk decision for the insurer to make. 
Mr C didnt agree he said thered been widespread coverage of the weather conditions 
around the time of the damage to his property. He asked for an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know my decision will be disappointing for Mr C, while I empathise with the position he 
finds himself in, for me to say Lloyds must do something different I must first be satisfied that 
theyve done something wrong. I cant see that they have here which is why I wont be 
asking them to do anything else. Ill explain why.
When making his claim Mr C didnt give a specific date for when the damage was caused 
but said it was as a result of that summers weather conditions  heatwave and torrential 
rainfall.
For any insurance claim to be successful, the policyholder must show they have a
valid claim, meaning an insured event happened that caused them damage or a loss. 
Insurable events are listed in the policy and reflect the fact that no policy covers everything 
that might happen.
Mr Cs policy provided cover for damage caused to his property by a range of insured 
events. The events were listed in the policy and are commonly found in most policies
on the market. Examples included flood, fire and storm.
Mr C said the brickwork for the building had been completely restored in 1971. And showed 
evidence that from June 16 to June 18 2021 there was a yellow warning issued for 
thunderstorms. And that in August 2021 there was a documentary about the torrential rainfall 
thered been across the country.
Mr C said he was woken one night (no specific date given) by the most violent rainstorms 
and the next morning there was debris around the building. He said in accordance with his 
policy he arranged to get the site cleared and the building work completed for safety 
purposes. He them claimed for the cost against his insurance policy. 
As mentioned above for Mr C to have a valid claim hed need to show that an insured event 
happened. Mr C claims the damage was caused by stormy weather. Ive considered the 
weather conditions around the time of his claim. In the area of Mr Cs property for June 2021 
the average gust of wind was 20 miles per hour (mph) with the highest gust being 29 mph on 
01 June 2021. The highest rainfall on 18 June 2021 being 6.6mm per hour. For July 2021 
the average gust was 22mph, with the highest being 46mph on 06 July 2021, and 41 mph on 
30 July 2021. The highest rainfall was 3.8mm per hour on 28 July 2021. 
The Royal Meteorological Societys defines a storm as being between 55 and 63 mph. The 
strongest gusts I found was 46 mph on 06 July 2021 which in the Societys terms would be 
considered a gale.
Lloyds said that the damage was caused by gradual deterioration that was highlighted by the 
weather conditions. Ive also considered this, and I can see that the contractor while he 
acknowledged the weather conditions said the bricks had laminated, and the faces of the 
brick had been removed by the weather conditions. Lamination is caused by weather 
exposure and weakens the structure of the brick. This explains Lloyds saying the damage 
was highlighted by the weather as the wind caused the faces of the already damaged 
bricks to come off.
For Mr C to make a successful claim for storm damage to his property, he needs to show 
there was a storm at the time, and that the storm was the dominant cause of the damage. 
From the evidence Ive seen I dont think Mr C can show this.
Lloyds declined Mr Cs claim as his policy terms and conditions say:We do not cover:  loss or damage caused by or resulting from wear and tear or gradual 
deterioration.
And
What is not insured? -  The cost of maintenance and normal decoration, wear and tear or 
other gradually operating cause
I havent seen any evidence that the damage to Mr Cs property was because of an insured 
event, that being a storm. The structure of the bricks had been weakened over time and 
exposure to the weather. So, on balance, I think the decision that Lloyds has come to, that 
the damage to the building was caused by gradual deterioration over time, was fair. I can 
see from the policy that damage caused by gradual deterioration is excluded. So, Im 
satisfied it was reasonable for Lloyds to decline the claim.
Renewal
insurers arent bound to renew insurance cover each year. Each policy is an annual contract 
and there is no binding requirement to offer another. Nor do insurers that choose not to 
continue offering cover have to justify why. Again, this is because of the annual and 
individual nature of each insurance policy. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman