DRN-3959284
The complaint
Mr W has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc Trading as First Direct didnt send him any 
reminders of the cover he received under a First Options package.
Mr W says that this led to him paying for duplicate breakdown cover.
What happened
Mr W says he took out a First Options packaged through First Direct around 1998. One of 
the key benefits of this package was that it provided breakdown cover.
Later on in 2004, Mr W agreed to add a First Directory package to his First Direct account. 
At the time, this offered things like travel insurance and mobile phone insurance. In 2009, 
First Direct added breakdown cover as a feature of the First Directory package.
In 2019 Mr W received letters to explain that the First Option package was being withdrawn 
and that his package would be cancelled.
This made Mr W realise that he was still paying for First Options packaged, and also that he 
had duplicate breakdown cover since 2009.
First Direct issued its final response letter and it did not find in Mr Ws favour. In short, it said 
that it wouldve been up to Mr W to cancel his First Options package if he didnt need it 
anymore.
Unhappy with First Directs response to his complaint, Mr W referred his complaint to our 
service. 
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they also didnt find in Mr Ws favour. In 
summary, they said the responsibility for sending out documentation relating to the First 
Options package lies with the insurer and not First Direct. And so they said that they could 
not hold First Direct responsible for any apparent failings of the insurer and suggested Mr W 
raise a complaint with the insurer.
Mr W disagreed with this, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im unable to say that First Direct has done anything wrong or 
acted unfairly in this matter.
Firstly, having reviewed everything, it seems that Mr W was aware that hed agreed to both 
the First Options package (which I understand was a standalone package of benefits) and 
also the First Directory package (which was a package of benefits attached to his bank 
account). And Mr W does not appear to be complaining that either of the packages were 
mis-sold.
Instead, it seems that when First Direct wrote to Mr W in 2009 (and First Direct has provided 
evidence to show it did), to say that he would get breakdown cover provided by his First 
Directory package, it seems Mr W had forgotten that he still had his First Options package. 
And this led to him continuing to pay for both packages.
Mr W has argued that how the payments for the two packages were described were unclear. 
Whilst the description given to some of the payments couldve perhaps, at times, been made 
clearer on the bank statements, Mr W paid for the two packages from different accounts. So 
I dont think they could reasonably have been confused as being payments for the same 
package.
Of course, I cant reasonably hold First Direct responsible if its simply the case that Mr W 
had forgotten that he was already paying (and had been for many years) for breakdown 
cover. All I can consider is whether First Direct has done anything wrong or acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr W.
Mr W argues that First Direct shouldve sent him annual reminders of both his First Directory 
Package, and also his First Options package. Had it done so, Mr W says that this wouldve 
made him aware he was paying for breakdown cover twice and so couldve cancelled the 
First Options package. However, Mr W says he only received annual reminders from First 
Direct about his First Directory package and says he received nothing for years about the 
First Option package.
I can see why Mr W has questioned this. As First Direct did send Mr W annual summary 
statements for his First Directory package, and these clearly outlined how much Mr W was 
paying for the First Directory package and what benefits came with his account. However, as 
the First Options package was a standalone package, that was not linked to his bank 
account, I understand it was treated differently by First Direct (although I appreciate that Mr 
W wont necessarily have been aware of this).
To explain, during the adjudicators investigation, it was established that First Direct had a 
business arrangement for the First Options product, whereby the insurer was responsible for 
administering the package of products or sending out any policy documentation for the 
associated benefits - such as when changes are made to the terms and conditions etc. As 
far as I can tell, First Direct was only responsible for selling the package in the first place.
To support this, First Direct has provided us with evidence to show that the insurer sent out 
the letters to Mr W in 2019 informing him that the product was being withdrawn. And that is 
the case, even though the letter was sent out with First Direct headed paper. Furthermore, 
contained within those letters, it also explained that if Mr W wanted to make a complaint, it 
directed him to contact the insurer and not First Direct. So all of the evidence I have seen 
does indicate that the insurer is responsible for sending policyholders documentation about 
the First Options package.
As such, based on all the evidence that we have been provided with, I cant reasonably hold 
First Direct responsible for Mr Ws complaint that he didnt receive any policy documentation 
or reminders about his First Options package. This is because it wasnt responsible for doing 
so. And I cant hold First Direct responsible for any alleged wrongdoing carried out by a third 
party.
This means that if Mr W wants to pursue this matter further, he will need to raise his 
concerns with the company mentioned in the product withdrawal letters.
I appreciate that this will come as a great disappointment for Mr W and I can see that he has 
had to wait a long time to be made aware of this  especially as we had to investigate 
whether our service was able to investigate the complaint in the first place. But I hope I have 
been able to explain why I dont think that First Direct is responsible for Mr W potentially not 
receiving any documentation relating to his First Options package since 2009.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, Im unable to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman