DRN-2909374
The complaint
Mr L complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) failed to refund direct debits that he didnt 
recognise setting up.
What happened
Mr L has explained that he noticed several payments leaving his account to a media 
company Ill refer to as G. The payments were taken from a direct debit that he says he 
didnt set up or authorise. There were other payments to G using various debit cards 
belonging to Mr L that he also didnt recognise.
Mr L reported several debit cards as being lost during the same period and BoS replaced 
them with updated card numbers. When Mr L noticed the payments to G, he raised them 
with BoS, and they approached G with a Chargeback request. This is a way to challenge 
transactions that have been made using, in this case, Mr Ls debit cards. G didnt defend the 
Chargeback which meant that Mr L received refunds for the two card transactions that had 
been made. BoS recorded information related to the Chargeback including Mr Ls name, 
date of birth, address and mobile phone number.
Mr L also challenged the direct debits and BoS investigated them. Mr L told BoS that hed 
cancelled his contract with G in September 2019. Mr L said a family friend had been staying 
with them at the time, who Ill refer to as Z. Mr L also explained that hed taken a contract 
with a different provider of media services. BoS declined to refund Mr L and told him the 
Direct Debit Guarantee wasnt appropriate as the Direct Debit theyd been carried out 
properly. Mr L complained to BoS who after again looking into the situation declined to make 
any further refund.
Mr L then brought his complaint to our service for an independent review. It was looked into 
by one of our investigators who though it was reasonable for BoS to hold Mr L liable for the 
direct debits and didnt uphold his complaint.
She thought it was unlikely someone could have obtained the different debit card details to 
make the manual payments to G, as Mr L had confirmed that no one else had access to 
them. It was also pointed out that the direct debits appeared to have been moved to coincide 
with Mr Ls salary payments.
Mr L disagreed with the outcome and asked for a further review which has now been passed 
to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly like to recognise the patience that Mr L has exhibited whilst this investigation has 
continued, unfortunately evidence from one of the third partys took a long time to arrive.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that BoS can hold Mr L liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. 
Coming to the question of authorisation, this is made up of two parts. Authentication and 
consent. Authentication is usually referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, BoS 
have supplied evidence that shows the account details were used to set up a direct debit 
with G. Im satisfied that the evidence shows all the disputed transactions were 
authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which BoS and Mr L agreed to use the card for transactions. 
For example, when using the account details to set up a direct debit, BoS agree to accept 
that this is a legitimate payment instruction made by the cardholder and make the payment 
on their behalf. The transactions in this case used the correct account details and were 
received by BoS from G in the agreed manner, so Im satisfied that consent was given and 
the disputed transactions were authorised. But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt be 
appropriate for BoS to hold Mr L responsible, for example if the account details were used to 
set up a direct debit without his permission.
Mr L has explained he ended his contract with G in September 2019, which is the same 
month that a new contract started and was set up using Zs name but paid for using Mr Ls 
account. Mr L later told our service that the contract with the other media service was 
between 2016 and 2019 but he was unable to show any evidence of this because it wasnt in 
his name. Mr L said he then had a contract with G from 2019 onwards for different services 
to those provided to Z.
I asked G to provide their account information linked to Mr L and his address. What this 
shows is slightly different to what Mr L said. Gs records show that Mr L had a historic 
account at a different address several years earlier. The next record G have shows an 
account that used Mr Ls email and his date of birth, using a different name, but was 
registered a few years later at a different address. The next record is in the name of Z 
starting in September 2019 but using the same mobile phone number that Mr L registered 
with BoS and our service.
Gs records then show the account in the name of Z was cancelled in July 2020 on the same 
day that a new contract was registered in another name at Mr Ls address. This persons 
name is the same one that Mr L regularly transfers money to, so I think its reasonable to 
assume that hes aware of this account. 
So, it appears that Gs records show various accounts linked to Mr L in one way or another 
and whilst its possible some of the earlier accounts werent set up by him, I dont think thats 
the likely explanation. Gs records show Z used Mr Ls mobile phone number to register the 
account. Im not sure why someone who was trying to impersonate him would register Mr Ls 
legitimate phone number as that would be a seemingly unnecessary risk of discovery. It 
would have been much safer to register their own mobile phone number to avoid any risk 
that Mr L would be contacted by G. 
Mr L explained that he didnt reveal his card details to anyone else, but Mr L explained that Z 
was living with him at the time. So, its possible that another person could have obtained 
these details but, as the card transactions made to G used three different card numbers, I 
find it increasingly unlikely that anyone other than Mr L could have used these card details to 
make payments to G after earlier direct debits were returned unpaid.
Whoever set up the direct debits that Mr L has complained about knew enough details to 
complete the paperwork to allow G to set up the direct debit with BoS. Ive seen the records that show Mr Ls name and account details were correctly entered to allow the direct debit to 
be taken from his account. So, its plausible they were known to someone else, but the 
services provided by G were at Mr Ls address and I find it unlikely that he was unaware of 
this as there would have either been some new equipment fitted to his property or new 
boxes plugged into current outlets in the house.  Hes also told us that he also had a contract 
for services from one of Gs businesses at the same time that Zs contract was operating. 
Gs records dont support what are effectively the same services supplied to the same 
property at the same time.
Id also note that when the earlier direct debits were returned unpaid, the two debit card 
payments that settled these outstanding debts (that Mr L later received a refund for), were 
only made once his account had funds in them. This would indicate that whoever made them 
knew something about the account balance, it seems unlikely that it would be anyone other 
than Mr L or his close family. 
Also, the three successful direct debits that make up this complaint were taken on a different 
date to the earlier ones. The change corresponds to the date when Mr L received his salary, 
so it seems that whoever changed the date was aware when Mr Ls salary was paid.
Mr L told us that hed left his wallet in a public place and then held a party that could explain 
how someone else could have obtained his card details. I accept that on these occasions Mr 
L could have had his card details compromised, but they dont explain why whoever took 
them would arrange media services with G at his home address. The exposure of his cards 
in a public place would be unlikely to have been found by someone who would then arrange 
a contract in Mr Ls name. Id question how they could know all the other details needed to 
set up an account or indeed why theyd do this. If they took his card, it would be much easier 
to use it until it was blocked and there arent any other disputed transactions recorded by Mr 
L. 
Similarly with the party held at Mr Ls address, I can see how someone could have obtained 
one of the cards, but not all three that were then used to make the payments to G over a 
period of four months, so I dont think these instances can explain how the payments to G 
were made.
When Ive taken everything into account, I think its more likely than not that Mr L was 
responsible for making these transactions. I realise Mr L will no doubt disagree with me, but 
Ive objectively assessed the available evidence. As a result, I dont think that it was 
unreasonable for BoS to hold him liable for the direct debits and I wont be upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman