DRN-1644897
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as St James Place Bank (St 
James) didnt treat them fairly when they experienced financial difficulty with their mortgage. 
They say it repeatedly refused their requests to extend the mortgage term, unfairly took 
litigation action, and forced them into mental ill-health.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have had a mortgage with St James for many years. Theyve also taken out 
further borrowing in the past. The mortgage is on repayment terms.
In around 2012, Mr B lost his job. Since then hes not been employed, but has been 
self-employed and trying to build up his business. Mrs B has been in employment but was 
made redundant in 2015. She began another job in 2016, but in 2017 gave up work for 
medical reasons. She began working again in 2018, though on a lower salary. 
Mr and Mrs Bs financial difficulties first began in around 2013. They took some contractual 
payment holidays, and St James agreed to temporarily convert the mortgage to interest only. 
It switched back to repayment terms in 2014, and Mr and Mrs B managed to maintain the 
payments, though it seems with some difficulty.
In 2015, Mr and Mrs B asked to extend the term of the mortgage. St James refused to 
consider a term extension. It said doing so wouldnt be affordable. It also refused a further 
temporary switch to interest only. 
In the years since 2015, Mr and Mrs B have fallen further and further into arrears. At times 
theyve been able to make some or all of their payments, but at other times havent been 
able to pay anything at all. 
By 2019, St James had begun to take legal action. Mr and Mrs B asked again for a term 
extension. They said a St James staff member had agreed an extension, only for it to then 
be withdrawn  St James said there was no agreement and while the staff member had 
discussed it with them, she had explained why it couldnt go ahead. 
Mr and Mrs B said they would put their property on the market. It seems there was a 
misunderstanding about this; St James said it thought they had already done so, whereas 
Mr and Mrs B say they were offering to do so once theyd got the property ready to market. 
St James paused litigation for a time, but when the property wasnt on the market, it re-
started the court action.
Mr and Mrs B complained about how St James had treated them over the years.
Our investigator got involved and discussed matters with both parties. He explained that he 
thought St James ought to have allowed a term extension in 2015  it was an appropriate 
way of helping Mr and Mrs B, and the rules of mortgage regulation say affordability shouldnt 
be a barrier to a term extension for reasons of forbearance. He thought that if this had 
happened Mr and Mrs B would still have struggled, and still have been in arrears  but the 
arrears would have been lower.
St James agreed to a backdated term extension. It re-worked the mortgage account as if a 
term extension to 2035 had been granted in 2015  reducing the arrears from the £70,000 
they had reached by 2020. It also agreed to refund around £16,000 in legal fees which had 
been added to the mortgage balance.
Our investigator thought that was fair and reasonable. He said that St James should also 
pay Mr and Mrs B £250 compensation, which St James accepted.
Mr and Mrs B didnt think this went far enough. They wanted St James to cover their own 
legal costs in defending the court proceedings as well. And Mr B said that St James 
behaviour over the years had worsened their financial situation and was the cause of both 
his and Mrs Bs mental health conditions, and of Mrs B in particular being unable to work 
through ill-health. He estimated their financial losses at £360,000. He said he wanted the 
Financial Ombudsman Service to decide in principle that St James was liable for their losses 
and to compensate them for their distress and ill-health  and then to appoint an 
independent mediator (at St James expense) to assess fair compensation for their financial 
losses.
Our investigator explained that the Financial Ombudsman Service itself decides fair 
compensation  including any financial loss  and asked Mr B to put forward any evidence 
he wanted me to take into account. Mr and Mrs B didnt provide any further evidence.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator that St James should have considered a term extension in 2015. 
At that time Mr and Mrs B werent in arrears, but explained they were struggling financially 
and were looking for assistance.
The rules of mortgage regulation say that lenders should treat their customers fairly  
including by assisting them to avoid arrears (known in the rules as a payment shortfall). The 
rules say that lenders should consider, amongst other things, extending the term, changing 
the repayment type, deferring interest or payment and capitalising arrears. Not all of these 
will be appropriate in every case  and none will be appropriate in some cases  but they 
should be considered.
The rules of mortgage regulation also say that an affordability assessment is not required 
where a change is made to an existing mortgage for reasons of forbearance. And a 
repayment strategy is not required for a temporary switch to interest only for the same 
reasons.
I dont therefore think that it was fair for St James not to consider extending the term of 
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage in 2015. Doing so would, at that time, have helped them with their 
immediate financial difficulties and made their monthly mortgage payments more affordable.
Im therefore pleased to see that St James has now re-worked the mortgage account so that 
it is as if a term extension had been granted in 2015.
And St James has also refunded all legal fees charged to the mortgage balance. I think this 
is fair. Mr and Mrs B have said that St James should also pay them the costs they incurred 
on their own representation in the court proceedings  in the region of £1,500. I dont intend to ask St James to cover these costs. 
Thats because even with the term extension the arrears would still have been very 
substantial, and Mr and Mrs B would still have struggled to afford to make any payments, 
especially after 2017. By that point there was little St James could reasonably do to assist. 
St James did consider a term extension in 2019, but even the reduced payments that would 
result werent affordable for Mr and Mrs B and wouldnt have solved the underlying problem. 
And had that decision been made following the term extension that should have happened in 
2015 it would be even less practical in 2019, since any further extension would have to go 
deep into Mr and Mrs Bs retirement to make much difference to the monthly payments. 
Ive said an affordability assessment isnt necessary when considering a term extension in 
these circumstances. But theres little point in extending the term unless it makes the 
mortgage affordable again; in 2015 it would, but by 2019 that was no longer the case.
The other options, a temporary reduced payment arrangement or an interest only 
concession, are appropriate for shorter term difficulties where theres a good prospect of the 
borrowers getting back on track. Theyre not appropriate for longer term or ongoing 
forbearance  not least because once those concessions end the missed payments or 
unpaid capital will need to be caught up, which means Mr and Mrs B would need to pay 
more each month thereafter. It wouldnt be sustainable to put them in that position unless 
there was evidence that theyd be likely to be able to afford those increased payments in the 
future  and there isnt that evidence.
St James did agree to put legal proceedings on hold while Mr and Mrs B put the property on 
the market. But there was confusion about exactly what this meant; St James understood it 
was already on the market, whereas Mr and Mrs B were offering to do so once theyd made 
some improvements. St James did pause its move to legal action for a time, but when the 
property didnt go on the market re-started proceedings. By the time Mr and Mrs B were 
ready to try and sell the property, action had restarted.
I dont think this was unfair. The mortgage payments werent being made, and so the 
situation was getting worse month by month. By this point the arrears had been going on for 
some years and were already very substantial (and still would have been with a term 
extension). Repossession should be a last resort, but I think that by this point the last resort 
had been reached. Mr and Mrs B werent able to manage their mortgage and had little 
prospect of getting things back on track in a reasonable time. The longer things went on, the 
worse the arrears would get and the more the equity Mr and Mrs B have in the property  
which is currently enough for them to downsize mortgage free  would be eroded. 
I therefore dont think it was unreasonable for St James to have taken legal action. And 
though its offered to remove its own legal fees from the balance to assist Mr and Mrs B, I 
dont think it fair to expect it to cover their costs as well.
Putting things right
Mr B says St James conduct has caused them significant financial loss. He says its resulted 
in loss of earnings for him of £2,500, and £3,500 for Mrs B, per month. Hes explained that 
both have mental health conditions which have had a substantial impact on them and their 
family. 
Im very sorry to hear about Mr and Mrs Bs health, and everything theyve been through. I 
can see theyve had a very difficult time in recent years, and they and their family have my 
sympathies.But I dont think I can fairly say that St James is the cause of whats happened  either to 
their finances or to their health. Both Mr and Mrs B lost their jobs in the years to 2015  not 
by reason of health, but by reason of business failure and redundancy  and from the 
chronology Mr and Mrs B have provided, it seems this  not their health  was at least the 
initial cause of their arrears and financial difficulty. 
Ive said St James should have allowed them to extend the mortgage term in 2015. But even 
if it had done, the mortgage would still have fallen into arrears.
It seems Mrs Bs mental health problems began in 2017. Mr and Mrs B say that this was 
because of the pressure St James put on them. I havent seen any medical evidence setting 
out Mrs Bs diagnosis, or giving an opinion of the cause of her illness. I dont think I can 
safely conclude that their illnesses were a direct result of and caused by St James arrears 
management and customer service.
I think its likely that Mr and Mrs Bs financial difficulties were the cause of the worry and 
upset they felt at this time. This led to difficulties in maintaining their mortgage. While St 
James did contact them and try to understand their position and whether the arrears could 
be made up, thats something its required to do  and I dont think the level of contact was 
unreasonable. While their struggles to maintain the mortgage and their other commitments 
were no doubt difficult and distressing, they werent caused by St James.
Once St James became aware of Mr and Mrs Bs difficulties, it transferred them to its 
specialist team dealing with vulnerable customers. And while no way forward could be 
agreed, it seems to me that was because of Mr and Mrs Bs precarious financial position  a 
position which would still have been precarious even if the 2015 term extension had been 
granted.
I do understand why Mr and Mrs B blame St James for their situation. They have had 
financial difficulty for many years. The worry and pressure of their situation, and their desire 
to keep their family home in the face of their circumstances must have been  I have no 
doubt  immense. 
But St James didnt cause their situation. It didnt cause them to lose their jobs, or 
experience financial difficulty. It tried over the years to work with Mr and Mrs B  and while 
theyre unhappy with what it did and didnt do, I do think it tried to reach a resolution. It 
delayed taking legal action for several years  longer than it would have done with other 
customers. 
It should have considered a term extension more carefully in 2015. Had it done that, the 
arrears would now be lower as would the monthly payments. But they would still be very 
substantial, and I think it most likely that everything else that has happened would still have 
happened, and St James isnt responsible for that.
The failure to consider a term extension in 2015 did cause Mr and Mrs B trouble and upset. 
But they didnt go into arrears at the time, even when it was refused. When it was refused, 
they continued to make their monthly payments  apart from some agreed payment holidays 
 for over a year. But at the same time, a term extension would have made things easier for 
them at the time, and reduced (though not eliminated) the arrears that arose later. I agree 
that £250 is fair compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Its fair and 
reasonable for Bank of Scotland plc trading as St James Place Bank to:Extend Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage term by 20 years from March 2015  taking the 
term to 2035;
Re-work the mortgage as if Mr and Mrs Bs term had been extended in March 2015, 
using the monthly payments as they would have been and the payments Mr and 
Mrs B actually made;
Remove legal fees added to the mortgage balance and any interest charged on 
them;
Re-calculate the arrears balance based on the contractual payments due had the 
term been extended in March 2015 and based on the payments Mr and Mrs B have 
actually made since then;
Make any amendments to their credit files that flow from the re-working of the 
mortgage account and arrears history and balance;
Write to Mr and Mrs B setting out their new mortgage term, monthly payment and 
arrears balance;
Pay Mr and Mrs B £250 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman