DRN-1791576
The complaint
Mrs P has complained about advice she received from The Prudential Assurance Company 
Limited to contract out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS) and set up 
a personal pension instead.
What happened
Mrs P took advice in 1991. She set up a personal pension plan which received national 
insurance rebates for three years. The plan is still active. The funds were invested in 
Prudentials with-profits fund.
Mrs Ps representatives say that the advice was unsuitable. They say that the with-profits 
fund was unsuitable because it was expensive and lacked transparency. And that investing 
in a single fund meant there was a lack of diversification.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He explained that when the 
government began to allow contracting-out of SERPS, no advice was given about who 
should and who shouldnt contract out. This led to pension providers making projections of 
future benefits and comparing these with potential SERPS benefits. The rebates were 
arranged in a way that meant age and earnings were key factors in assessing whether an 
individual was likely to be better off by contracting-out. In this case Mrs Ps age and earnings 
met the criteria suggesting she may be better off.
The investigator added that he didnt think the with-profits fund was unsuitable. It was made 
clear that this was the only fund available for Mrs Ps investment. He felt that the with-profits 
fund matched Mrs Ps attitude to risk, and it was invested in a wide range of assets so there 
was no lack of diversification.
Mrs Ps representatives didnt agree and said that advice to invest in a single fund was 
unsuitable. The with-profits fund was expensive and included smoothing which Mrs P didnt 
need given that she was investing for over 35 years. They added that advice to invest in a 
single fund wouldnt be considered good advice now, and so it wasnt good advice in 1991.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator and with his reasoning. I dont uphold this complaint.
When the Government decided to allow individuals to contract out of SERPS (and offered 
incentives to do so), it didnt give advice about who should be advised to remain in SERPS 
and those for whom it was anticipated that contracting out would be beneficial. To provide 
some clarity and guidance, pension providers made comparisons of the projected benefits 
from SERPS with those from a personal pension. These calculations were based on what were felt to be conservative assumptions of likely future investment returns at the time. In 
drawing up these comparisons, two key criteria were considered; age, and earnings.
One of the attractions of contracting out of SERPS at an early age is that the younger 
someone is, the longer there is until retirement. So there is a greater chance that a personal 
pension could perform better than SERPS over this longer period. The age at which the 
providers advice whether to contract out or not changed, is known as the pivotal age.
Mrs P was 25 years old when she contracted out and was under Prudentials pivotal age.
Mrs Ps annual earnings were also above Prudentials minimum guidelines for contracting 
out. This meant that the national insurance rebates would be considered sufficient to justify 
contracting out.
As Mrs P's age and earnings met the key criteria, the advice to contract-out doesn't seem to 
be unsuitable.
And I dont think the with-profits fund was unsuitable for Mrs P's investment. Whilst her 
pension was invested into a single fund I dont think this meant there was a lack of 
diversification. The with-profits fund invested in a wide range of assets. This fund also 
matched Mrs Ps attitude to risk, cautious. The documents from the time clearly set out that 
this with-profits fund was the only one available to Mrs P at that time.
The personal pension was recommended by Prudential, and not by an independent financial 
adviser who may have considered a wider range or products.
In making this determination, I must consider the standards that applied at the time the 
advice was given. The advice was given almost 30 years ago. The projections of future 
benefits that were made at that time, and which Mrs P may have relied on, may not have 
proved to be correct, but they were only projections and there were no guarantees that Mrs 
P would be better off. Im sorry that she may have lost out, but Im not satisfied that the 
advice she received was unsuitable for her. 
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman