DRN-3159212
The complaint
Mr T complains that Bamboo Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.  
What happened
Mr T was given two loans by Bamboo. He borrowed £1,900 in December 2019 that he 
agreed to repay in 18 monthly instalments. He refinanced that loan in September 2020 and 
took an additional £1,100 of borrowing. In total, at that time, Mr T needed to repay £2,367 in 
a further 18 monthly instalments. Mr T has faced problems with his finances and entered into 
an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) in February 2021. The second loan was included 
in the IVA.
Mr Ts complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think that it had 
been reasonable for Bamboo to give either loan to Mr T. So he thought the complaint should 
be upheld and asked Bamboo to put things right.
Bamboo didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr T accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Ts complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Bamboo gave these loans to Mr T required it to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Bamboo had to think about whether repaying 
the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr T. In practice 
this meant that Bamboo had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr T 
undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for Bamboo to 
simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of 
any repayments on Mr T. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Bamboo did what it needed to before agreeing to 
lend to Mr T.
Bamboo gathered some information from Mr T before it agreed the first loan. It asked him for 
details of his income, and his normal housing costs. It then used some industry statistical 
data to estimate the remainder of Mr Ts expenditure. And it checked his credit file to assess 
how much he was repaying to other creditors and how he had managed credit in the past.
Mr T was entering into a significant commitment with Bamboo when he asked for the first 
loan. He would need to make monthly repayments for a period of 18 months. So I think it 
was right that Bamboo wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed 
information about Mr Ts financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that 
the checks Bamboo did before agreeing the first loan were sufficient to achieve that aim  
I think that the checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. And 
that is what I think should have happened in this case.  
The results of the credit check showed that Mr T was making extensive use of other credit 
facilities. It is true that, in recent times, Mr T appears to have managed his repayments well, 
and all his accounts were shown as up to date. But he had faced some problems around 
three years earlier when two accounts were defaulted. Experience often shows that 
consumers who have faced problems managing their money in the past, might be more 
likely to face further problems in the future.
When he asked for this loan, as well as a mortgage, Mr T had at least eleven other active 
credit accounts. He had seven open loans, including a substantial loan with a balance of 
over £15,000 that had been opened just eight months before. He also had four credit card 
accounts, two of which were nearing relatively large credit limits. In general his credit card 
accounts showed little evidence of declining balances.
I think that Bamboos credit check showed that Mr T was already heavily indebted. After 
taking the new loan he would be using over 80% of his normal income to service both 
secured and unsecured debts. I cannot agree that it was reasonable to conclude that was a 
sustainable method of managing his finances, and so I dont think it was reasonable for 
Bamboo to agree to give this loan to Mr T.Mr T asked to refinance his loan after just 9 of the scheduled 18 repayments had been 
made. Although Mr T explained that he required the loan to meet some costs imposed on 
leaseholders by his landlord for renovations to the flats in which he lived, I think his need to 
borrow additional funds during the term of the first loan should have caused concern to the 
lender.
As before Bamboo asked Mr T for details of his income, and his normal housing costs. It 
then used some industry statistical data to estimate the remainder of his expenditure. And it 
checked his credit file to assess how much he was repaying to other creditors and how he 
had managed credit in the past. Notwithstanding what I have said above, I think that these 
checks were again proportionate. But I again think the results of the checks should have led 
Bamboo to also decline this loan application.
The credit check results showed little improvement in Mr Ts finances. Whilst the amount he 
would need to repay each month had reduced a little, Mr T would still need to use more than 
78% of his normal income to meet his secured and unsecured debt repayments. And by this 
time each of Mr Ts four credit cards were approaching their not insubstantial limits  his total 
credit card debt at that time had reached almost £15,000.
As before I dont think it was reasonable for Bamboo to conclude that Mr Ts finances were 
in such a position that he would be able to afford the repayments on this loan in a 
sustainable manner. So I dont think Bamboo should have given this loan to Mr T either.
In summary, I dont think that Bamboo should have agreed to give either loan to Mr T. His 
levels of indebtedness were indicative of someone who was facing significant problems 
managing their money, and so would be unlikely to be able to repay further debt in a 
sustainable manner. So Bamboo needs to put things right for Mr T.
  
Putting things right
I dont think Bamboo should have agreed to lend to Mr T in December 2019 or 
September 2020. So Bamboo should;
refund all the interest and charges Mr T paid on the first loan 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the second loan and treat all the 
payments Mr T made towards this loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking Mr Ts second loan account as Ive directed results in Mr T effectively 
having made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Bamboo should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Mr Ts second loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, 
then Bamboo can use the total refund for the first loan (after the deduction of tax) to 
offset this. 
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ts credit file in relation to both 
loans. HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to take off tax from this interest. Bamboo must 
give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
As I said earlier, Mr T entered into an IVA in February 2021. I think it is reasonable for 
Bamboo to take account of any capital it has written off as a result of that IVA when 
assessing the compensation that is due to Mr T. And Bamboo should liaise with Mr Ts IVA 
practitioner to ensure that any compensation it pays is properly accounted for.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint and direct Bamboo Limited to put things 
right as detailed above.  
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman