DRN-3879462
The complaint
Mr M complains about Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited.
All references to Accredited also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ive looked at the questions Mr M was asked when taking out the policy. One of these 
questions asks if the van has been modified. Next to this, it provides further detail 
about modifications. It sets out its been modified if changed from the standard 
manufacturers specification in any way. It then presents examples  the first being 
changes to the bodywork  including spoilers. I think the question was clear and gave 
specific examples. I also see it was made clear in the documentation provided to 
Mr M, the importance of the information he provided to Accredited being correct.
Accredited have provided sufficient evidence in their underwriting criteria to show it 
wouldnt have provided cover to Mr M if it had been made aware about the spoilers. 
So, Im satisfied a qualifying misrepresentation has occurred under the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
Accredited have treated the misrepresentation as careless  which means it has 
avoided Mr Ms policy but has refunded the premiums. In the circumstances, I think 
this is a fair remedy and in line with that set out in CIDRA. 
I acknowledge Mr Ms comments that other vans on the market come with similar 
spoilers. But I would also add these vans could be modified  and there are also 
similar vans on the market without the spoilers.
A spoiler doesnt often come as standard on vehicles and is commonly a 
modification. From reviewing photos of Mr Ms van and its spoilers, comparing them 
with images of the same type of van, made in the same year, online, Im not satisfied 
theyre part of the standard manufacturers specifications. Most of the vans Ive seen 
come without spoilers, and more importantly Ive not seen any evidence that 
persuades me Mr Ms van come from the manufacturer with them on it. 
As Ive said out above, I think the questions Accredited asked Mr M made it clear a 
spoiler was seen as a modification. So, I think it wouldve been reasonable for Mr M 
to check this before taking the policy out if he was unsure.
So, for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman