DRN-1465833
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.  
What happened
Mrs M was given 70 loans by Sunny between January 2015 and January 2019. Each of the 
loans was due to be repaid in six monthly instalments but Mrs M repaid the majority of the 
loans within a few weeks of taking them out. At one time Mrs M had four loans outstanding 
at the same time. All of Mrs Ms loans have been fully repaid and a summary of some of her 
borrowing from Sunny is shown below.
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount 
1 20/01/2015 27/01/2015 £  450
2 23/01/2015 27/01/2015 £  250
3 18/02/2015 27/02/2015 £  200
4 15/03/2015 27/03/2015 £  450
5 30/04/2015 27/05/2015 £  800
6 29/05/2015 05/06/2015 £  700
7 17/06/2015 26/06/2015 £  300
8 19/06/2015 13/07/2015 £  350
9 26/06/2015 13/07/2015 £  100
10 28/06/2015 27/07/2015 £  100
: : : :
68 25/10/2018 26/10/2018 £  200
69 24/12/2018 25/01/2019 £  500
70 22/01/2019 25/01/2019 £  50
 
Mrs Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think Sunny had 
been wrong to give the first five loans to Mrs M. But he didnt think Sunny should have 
agreed to lend the remaining loans. So he asked Sunny to pay Mrs M some compensation.
Sunny didnt agree with that assessment. But it offered to refund the interest and charges 
that Mrs M had paid from loan 53 onwards. It later increased that offer to cover loan 32 
onwards. Mrs M didn't accept either offer. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mrs M accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mrs M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mrs M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ms complaint.
Sunny did some checks before it lent to Mrs M. It asked her for details of her income, and 
her normal expenditure. And it checked her credit file before agreeing the loans. Ive seen a 
summary of those checks and I dont think they showed anything that should have caused 
additional concerns to Sunny.
As I mentioned earlier each of Mrs Ms loans was repayable over a six month period. So the 
amounts that Mrs M needed to repay each time were smaller than if shed taken a normal 
payday loan. But of course she was committing to making those repayments over a far 
longer period. I think the fact that Mrs M typically repaid her loans much earlier than planned should have 
caused some concerns to Sunny. That might be the sort of behaviour that would indicate 
that someone was facing problems managing their money and needing to refinance loans on 
a regular basis. So Ive also taken that into account when looking at whether Sunny should 
have given the loans to Mrs M.
I think that the checks Sunny did before agreeing the first four loans were proportionate. The 
amounts that Mrs M needed to repay were small compared with the disposable income 
shed declared. Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mrs Ms 
circumstances at the time, and her borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve 
been proportionate for Sunny to ask her for the amount of information that would be needed 
to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first four loans. 
I do think, by the time Mrs M asked for loan 5, that Sunny should have increased its level of 
checks. By now Mrs M had taken four loans that had all been repaid within a month - far 
earlier than the agreed six month term. And the amount she asked to borrow had increased 
significantly. So I think from loan 5 onwards Sunny should have taken steps  to 
independently verify Mrs Ms true financial position. But from the information that Mrs M has 
provided to us about her finances at the time Im not able to say that better checks would 
have shown Sunny that it shouldnt have agreed to lend to Mrs M from loan 5 onwards.
But looking at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mrs M I think by loan 6 the 
lender should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt provide further loans. 
This was now Mrs Ms sixth loan request in just over four months. Although each of the first 
five loans Mrs M had taken had been repayable over a period of six months she paid those 
loans off in a matter of weeks, but borrowed increasing amounts very shortly afterwards. I 
think that pattern of frequent borrowing and repaying early should have indicated to Sunny 
that Mrs M was most likely having significant problems managing her money. 
When Mrs M asked for loan 6, the amount she asked to borrow was more than half of her 
declared income. She wasnt making any significant inroads to the amount she owed the 
lender. 
Following loan 6 Mrs M's pattern of repaying loans early and borrowing again very shortly 
afterwards continued unchanged. So Sunny ought to have realised it was more likely than 
not Mrs M was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying her previous loans was 
leaving in her finances and that her indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
I have considered that there were some gaps in Mrs M's borrowing. And in particular that 
there was a gap of  almost six months between loans 62 and 63. I've thought carefully about 
whether that gap should have given Sunny any confidence that Mrs M's finances had 
returned to a more stable footing. But given what had gone before I don't think it was 
reasonable for Sunny to make such an assessment at that time. And in fact Mrs M's 
borrowing pattern resumed shortly afterwards.
I think that Mrs M lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs M's indebtedness by 
allowing her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time. The sheer number of loans, and the period she was borrowing over, was likely to have 
had negative implications on Mrs Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in 
the market for these high-cost loans.So I dont think Sunny should have agreed to lend to Mrs M from loan 6 onwards. Sunny 
needs to pay Mrs M some compensation.   
Putting things right
I dont think Sunny should have agreed to lend to Mrs M after, and including, the loan that 
she took on 29 May 2015 (loan 6). So for each of those loans Sunny should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mrs M on the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*.
The number of loans taken from loans 6 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 6 to 70 should be removed from 
Mrs M's credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold most of Mrs Ms complaint and direct Elevate Credit 
International Limited to put things right as detailed above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman