DRN-2884182
The complaint
Mr B complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds proposed settlement to his motor insurance 
claim.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr B Ive considered and thought carefully about all of the points he has 
made. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised 
or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by both 
parties to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr B disagrees with the amount offered in settlement by Aviva. He thinks two of his 
items should be replaced at the full cost of purchasing them as new
When a claim is made on an insurance policy, the insurer needs to indemnify the 
customer by putting them back, as far as practicably possible in the position it 
wouldve been before the incident. This usually means the insurer will pay the cost of 
replacing the items at their current value, or considering any depreciation, not at the 
cost of buying them brand new 
Some policies, or sections of policies, offer to pay the full cost of replacing the items 
for new ones (new for old) but this is usually specifically detailed in the policy
I can see Mr Bs policy does specifically say it provides new for old cover under the 
child seats section, but doesnt under personal belongings
Aviva have provided several examples of purchasing refurbished versions of the 
items Mr B is claiming for and have offered the average price from these. 
Considering this, and what Ive said above, I think this is reasonable
In order to validate a claim, an insurer is entitled to request proof of ownership such 
as receipts. As Mr B has not been able to do this regarding the child seats, I dont 
think Aviva have acted unfairly in not covering this
However, I do think Aviva couldve done more to progress Mr Bs complaint. Mr B 
was claiming for several items under the personal belongings section of the policy 
and had gone to great lengths to provide the information requested of him by Aviva. 
Following this he was sent £100 which covered one of the items claimed for but didnt 
consider the other items. Although Aviva has now amended their offer to include 
these, I think it should also pay Mr B £100 compensation as this fairly reflects the 
inconvenience he has been caused  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
To put things right Aviva Insurance Limited should pay Mr B £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman