DRN-2807917
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Nationwide Building Society wouldnt allow them to port their 
mortgage product to another property.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D through a broker took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 2018 when they 
bought a house. Mr D is paid a basic salary plus commission. Nationwide approved a 
mortgage of £360,000. The house cost £480,000. Mr and Mrs D got assistance with the 
deposit through the governments Help to Buy scheme. Mr and Mrs D fixed their mortgage 
rate for the first 5 years by taking out a mortgage product. According to the mortgage offer, 
the mortgage product was portable if Nationwide offered a loan on any new property. If the 
mortgage was redeemed and not ported, an early repayment charge (ERC) was payable. 
The mortgage offer said that Nationwide didnt guarantee acceptance of any new loan 
application.
In the late summer of 2020, Mr and Mrs D saw a new house they liked and asked 
Nationwide about a new mortgage. The proposed new house would cost more than their 
present one, But Nationwide told them that since April 2020, in assessing affordability they 
werent considering commission or bonus type payments which meant that Mr and Mrs D 
couldnt apply for a mortgage with Nationwide to fund their new purchase. Nationwide says 
that in April 2020 it changed its policy so that it didnt include bonus, overtime and 
commission in assessing income in response to the unprecedented times and to try and 
protect our members
In September 2020, Nationwide wrote to Mr and Mrs D to say that if they chose to move 
home it would consider a like for like mortgage in order to facilitate the move and avoid the 
ERCs but borrowing more for the new property is not like for like and that an application for 
more borrowing would be considered under the new policy.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as she didnt accept 
that Nationwide had done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs D disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint arises from an enquiry Mr and Mrs D made rather than an application. But its 
fairly clear that if Mr and Mrs D had made an application at that time that in assessing 
whether a new mortgage was affordable that if Mr and Mrs D were borrowing more than they 
already had on loan that Nationwide wouldnt consider Mr Ds bonus, overtime and 
commission which formed the major part of his remuneration package, This was in line with 
the tightening of its lending criteria that it had adopted in response to the Covid pandemic 
and impending recession. Mr and Mrs D say that its unfair as when they agreed the original 
mortgage with Nationwide as such a restriction on sources of income wasnt in place and it 
was now preventing them porting their mortgage.
Under MCOB, which are the regulators rules for mortgage lending, Nationwide has to 
consider the affordability of a mortgage before allowing a borrower access to funds. Part of 
that assessment is whether the mortgage is sustainable over the length of the mortgage. 
Following the outbreak of the Covid pandemic, Nationwide says that it made the difficult 
decision to remove the use of commission, bonuses and overtime in affordability 
assessments in all mortgage applications due to the effects the pandemic was having on 
businesses.  Mr D has made the point that applications would be allowed based on a basic 
salary where there was no guarantee that the applicant could keep the job. But Nationwides 
view was that that as the payment of commission was not contractually the same as a basic 
salary, payments by commission posed a greater risk.
Mortgage lenders treat non contractually guaranteed payments such as commission and 
bonuses as different than salary payments. That has been industry practice with some 
lenders allowing only certain percentages of those non salary payments to be considered 
and that percentage varying. I note that in MCOBs there is a reference to different income 
streams and that lenders should have policies about what different income streams are 
acceptable and notes the separation between contractually guaranteed and non-
contractually guaranteed income streams which Nationwide references in its reply to Mr and 
Mrs D. 
Nationwide in response to the pandemic and recession changed its lending policies to meet 
the new economic environment. Although Mr and Mrs D may disagree with its new policy 
and whether it met its objective, Nationwide as a business is entitled to make commercial 
decisions about the risk associated with different types of income. Nationwides change 
complies with the regulators rules. MCOB requires a lender to determine what types of 
income are acceptable and after April 2020 Nationwide decided that at that time bonuses 
and commissions were not acceptable sources of income in its affordability assessment for 
new lending.  
Its clear from MCOB rules that different streams of income can be treated differently and 
there is nothing in the rules to prevent the lender amending its policies as to how it treats 
these different streams of income including treating certain streams as unacceptable as it did 
here. So, I cant say that Nationwide acted in breach of MCOB rules and those are rules I 
have to consider in coming to my decision. My understanding is that since earlier this year 
that Nationwide has since amended its view about the acceptability of these non-
contractually guaranteed streams of income for its affordability assessment presumably in 
response to the improving economic environment.    
Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs D this meant that when they enquired in 2020 about borrowing 
more from Nationwide on a new house, Nationwide couldnt assist them. But Nationwide was 
never committed to providing more borrowing to Mr and Mrs D. Mr and Mrs D could port if 
Nationwide approved the new mortgage. I believe that fairness dictated that Nationwide 
should have given consideration to any application to transfer the mortgage product with the 
same borrowing which was what Nationwide offered. But there was no commitment or 
promise from Nationwide at any stage to Mr and Mrs D they could borrow any more money. 
When Mr and Mrs D applied for the mortgage they did so through a broker and Nationwide 
would have had very little direct contact with them. So, I dont consider that Mr and Mrs D 
were unfairly treated by Nationwide. Mr and Mrs D also agreed that in return for a favourable 
interest rate that they would pay an early repayment charge (ERC) if they redeemed their 
mortgage and it wasnt ported. Again, that seems a fair bargain and if Mr and Mrs D had 
redeemed the mortgage without porting, I would have expected them to have paid the ERC. In answer to Mr and Mrs Ds direct question, I consider that Nationwides actions were fair 
and reasonable and so I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman