DRN-2735324
The complaint
Mr W says My Finance Club Limited lent to him irresponsibly. He says that he took on a 
large amount of debt and he struggled to keep on top of all of it. He says My Finance Club 
should have made better checks and found out about this. Mr W says it wouldnt have lent to 
him if it had done this.   
What happened
This complaint is about two payday loans My Finance Club provided to Mr W between March 
and September 2019. Some of the information I have been provided about the lending is in 
the table below. 
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm (days) date ended
1 17/03/2019 £150 30 30/04/2019
2 30/09/2020 £400 38 outstanding
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought that My Finance Club should have 
made better checks before approving loan 2. He thought if it had done this it would have 
seen that Mr W wouldnt have been able to sustainably repay this loan. This is largely 
because he was spending significant amounts each month on gambling.   
My Finance Club disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that:
the long period between loan applications demonstrated he was not reliant on short 
term lending
he had a reasonable income and expenditure and the loan looked to be affordable
Mr W was gambling, but this was a personal choice which has resulted in him being 
unable to meet his obligations. So, this wasnt a reason not to approve his loan 
application
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. My Finance Club 
needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that My Finance Club should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint in part and have explained why below.
Mr W didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loan 1. Because of this, I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement about this loan. So, I wont be making a decision 
about this lending. But it was part of the borrowing relationship Mr W had with My Finance 
Club. So, it is something I will take into account when considering the other loan he took.
My Finance Clubs records show that after Mr W repaid loan one he applied a total of 26 
times for more lending with My Finance Club. My Finance Club declined these loans for 
various reasons. In the time straight after loan 1 (over the period March to June 2019) the 
loans were declined mostly because My Finance Club thought the lending wasnt affordable 
for Mr W. And nearer the start of loan 2 (over the period June 2019 to September 2020) the 
recorded reason for the loans being declined were recent arrears on other lending and 
defaults on other credit. So, I dont think its reasonable to conclude Mr Ws finances had 
improved in between these two loans. 
I think My Finance Club couldve realised at that time that Mr W may have had some 
significant and longer term financial problems and he didnt just want the loans to help with a 
temporary cash flow problem. My Finance Club shouldve also become concerned about 
whether it knew enough about Mr Ws true financial situation.
I think that it wouldve been proportionate to fully review Mr Ws financial situation And I think 
that My Finance Club needed to verify the information it found out where possible. This is to 
make sure Mr W was in position to make the repayments sustainably.I dont think My Finance Club did this. It largely relied on what Mr W told it and some 
information from Mr Ws credit file. So, I need to think about what My Finance Club wouldve 
seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
Its already established that Mr W was having problems repaying his existing credit. My 
Finance Clubs own checks showed this was the case. And its unclear to me why it thought 
it was reasonable to lend in this instance when it hadnt felt this was right for Mr W for the 
proceeding 17 months. Ive not seen any indication that his circumstances had materially 
improved. 
But I think its reasonable to say proportionate checks wouldve also shown My Finance Club 
that Mr W was spending a significant amount on gambling. And in the months leading up to 
loan 2 he was spending much more than his income.  
I wont talk about whether this was due to personal choice, or otherwise. Its firstly not 
appropriate for me to do this, and it can be a very complicated issue. And any consideration 
about compulsive or problematic spending doesnt relieve My Finance Club of its 
responsibility to ensure Mr W was able to sustainably repay this lending.
In this situation any loan repayment (and Mr Ws other essential spending) was, at least in 
part, dependent on Mr W receiving a return from the money he spent on gambling. At best 
this is unlikely. So, it follows that its not reasonable to say that Mr W would be able to 
sustainably repay any lending where this was the case. So, I think that if My Finance Club 
wouldve how found out about Mr Ws gambling, it wouldnt have thought it was responsible 
to lend to Mr W because of this.
I think that My Finance Club wouldve found out this information if it had made proportionate 
checks. And I think My Finance Club wouldve seen Mr W wouldnt have been able repay the 
loan in a sustainable way. So, I think that My Finance Club shouldnt have given loan 2 to 
Mr W and I think hes lost out as a result of this. So, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint about 
loan 2 and My Finance Club should put things right.
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress My Finance Club should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about 
what might have happened had it not approved loan 2.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. For 
example, having been declined this lending Mr W may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would 
(or ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr W in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr W would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce My Finance Clubs liability in this case 
for what Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.My Finance Club shouldnt have given Mr W loan 2.
If My Finance Club has sold any outstanding debts My Finance Club should buy these back 
if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If My Finance Club is not able to buy 
the debts back then My Finance Club should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below.
A) My Finance Club should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr W towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything it has already refunded.
B) My Finance Club should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made 
by Mr W which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr W originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) My Finance Club should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr W as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr W having 
made overpayments then My Finance Club should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. My Finance Club should then refund the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans If this results in a surplus then 
the surplus should be paid to Mr W. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then My 
Finance Club should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr W. My Finance Club 
shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal My Finance Club has already 
written-off.
E) My Finance Club should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file in 
relation to loans upholding at step 2. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires My Finance Club to deduct tax from this interest. My 
Finance Club should give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax My Finance Club has 
deducted, if they ask for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Ws complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman