DRN-3122698
The complaint
Mr B is a sole trader. He complains that Lloyds Bank PLC declined his application for a new 
account  which meant he couldnt then apply to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan. 
What happened
Mr B had a personal account with Lloyds which he was also using for his business 
transactions. In June 2020, Mr B decided he wanted to apply for a Bounce Back Loan, so he 
approached Lloyds to make an application. 
Lloyds required their customers to have a business account before they were offered a 
Bounce Back Loan. So Mr B applied to Lloyds for the business account. However, this was 
then declined by Lloyds who said the turnover Mr B had declared on his application didnt 
match what they could see going through his existing personal account. 
Mr B complained to Lloyds and asked them to reconsider their decision. He explained that 
when hed submitted the account application, hed used a projected rather than historic 
turnover amount. In September 2020, Lloyds agreed to review Mr Bs application again and 
asked for his tax return and turnover. They said if this information could be verified by the 
turnover through Mr Bs personal account, theyd open the account for him.
 
However, when Lloyds started their checks for Mr Bs application again, they identified hed 
opened a limited company in late July 2020.  They told Mr B that this meant he wasnt 
eligible for a Bounce Back Loan under the Scheme rules  as he would now be applying on 
behalf of the limited company, which had only started trading after 1 March 2020.  
Mr B complained to Lloyds again. He said the limited company was a different business, so 
Lloyds agreed to ignore the new limited company and process the application for Mr B as a 
sole trader. However, they explained they were only opening business accounts for the 
purpose of accessing the Bounce Back Loan Scheme and would assess his application in 
light of the Scheme rules. 
Lloyds reviewed the evidence Mr B provided for his application but couldnt see there was 
sufficient turnover for him to meet the eligibility criteria for a Bounce Back Loan under the 
Scheme rules, so they declined his account application again. 
Mr B was unhappy and complained to Lloyds. He thought he was eligible for a Bounce Back 
Loan and felt his application had been declined as hed been discriminated against.
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. They said they didnt use racial profiling when making 
decisions about account openings and didnt tolerate any form of racism. They explained 
Mr Bs application had been declined as the evidence he provided didnt support the turnover 
amount hed declared on his application as a sole trader and they werent opening accounts 
for limited companies at that time.
Mr B didnt agree and asked this service to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She thought that Lloyds 
had acted fairly in declining Mr Bs application on the basis they couldnt evidence the 
turnover hed said. She said she hadnt seen any evidence Lloyds had acted in a racist 
manner when reviewing Mr Bs application. And she thought Lloyds had acted fairly as 
theyd reviewed Mr Bs application several times even after theyd seen he had started a 
limited company. 
Mr B didnt agree as he felt the investigator had unfairly favoured the bank and asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Although the Bounce Back Loan Scheme is a government backed scheme, lenders had 
some discretion to decide how they would accept applications, both from new and existing 
customers. And while it was not a requirement of the Scheme that customers applying under 
the Scheme had a business relationship, lenders were entitled to require one. So it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to require Mr B to open a business account before it would consider 
an application from him for a Bounce Back Loan.  
Lloyds have explained that due to the Covid-19 pandemic they werent opening any new 
business accounts. The only exception to this was for sole traders who already banked with 
them using their personal accounts and were eligible for a Bounce Back Loan. As part of the 
account opening criteria, the bank wanted to see the personal account was being used in a 
manner consistent for a business account, and evidence that the turnover amount declared 
on the business account application could be seen in the account transactions. 
Under the Scheme there were specific criteria that a business needed to meet before they 
could apply for a Bounce Back Loan  which included carrying on business on 1 March 2020 
and that the amount being borrowed was no more than 25% of the applications turnover. I 
think its reasonable that Lloyds wanted want to check this information before proceeding 
with the account application to ensure Mr B would be eligible for a Bounce Back Loan. 
When Mr B initially applied for the account, he said his turnover was £215,000 but Lloyds 
werent able to see any evidence of this amount going through his personal account. Mr B 
has told us he was using accounts with other providers for his business and that hed used a 
projected amount for his future turnover. 
Ive looked at the application form he completed, and Ive seen it says Expected annual 
turnover for the next 12 months so I think it was reasonable for him to provide a projection.
However, the projected turnover amount Mr B declared was significantly higher than Lloyds 
could see going through his account. So I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to have 
concerns about this amount as the bank hadnt seen any evidence to support this figure. 
Lloyds also said the lowest annual turnover was £8,000 to receive the minimum loan of 
£2,000 under the Scheme, and they hadnt seen evidence of this amount either. So the bank 
werent satisfied Mr B met the minimum eligibility requirement for the account or the Bounce 
Back Loan Scheme and declined the application. 
Ive looked at the bank statements Mr B provided and based on what Ive seen I think Lloyds 
decision was reasonable as this was the key part of their criteria for opening new business accounts at that time. Ive also seen a copy of this criteria, so Im satisfied it wasnt just 
applied to Mr Bs application and was the position the bank has chosen to take in these 
circumstances. 
Mr B told us he was unhappy with the time it took Lloyds to make a final decision on his 
application. However, Ive seen that there were similarities with the business names on the 
applications Mr B submitted  and therefore an issue with a trading date not meeting the 
Scheme eligibility criteria - so I think Lloyds actions were reasonable. 
Ive also seen that when Mr B raised the issue with Lloyds and clarified the business names, 
the bank agreed to reassess Mr Bs application as a sole trader. I havent seen any evidence 
there was a significant impact or delay from this so I cant reasonably say Lloyds treated 
Mr B unfairly here. 
When Lloyds looked at Mr Bs application for a third time, Ive seen they didnt dispute that 
Mr B met the Scheme eligibility for when it had started trading, or that his business may be 
turning over the amount hed declared on the second application. However, as the bank 
couldnt see that level of turnover going through the account Mr B held with them, they 
declined his application for the final time. I think this was reasonable as Mr B didnt meet 
Lloyds account opening criteria.
Mr B has told us he feels frustrated by this and feels there have been other factors such as 
his race which have impacted Lloyds decision. But I havent seen any evidence of this, and 
am satisfied Lloyds assessed Mr Bs application in line with their criteria and declined it 
because it didnt meet the banks standard requirements. 
I recognise that Mr B feels strongly about this and hell be disappointed with my decision. But 
based on everything Ive seen, I think Lloyds have acted reasonably, so, I wont be asking 
them to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman