DRN-3044157
The complaint
  Mr F and Mrs F complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a mortgage a 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
  This complaint is about a regular premium MPPI policy taken out by Mr F and Mrs F in 
1991.
The policy was sold to Mr F and Mrs F when they were also arranging their mortgage. The
policy was taken out in Mr Fs name only and he was covered against accidents, sickness
and unemployment.
Mr F and Mrs F say the policy was mis-sold to them. They say Mr F was covered only and
would not have been able to make a claim. They have provided a term given within the
insurance certificate that they say meant Mr F would not have been able to claim benefit due
to him not being the main wage earner.
I have issued two provisional decisions about this complaint. The first one was in April 2021 
where I was minded to not uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint and the second was in August 
2021 where, after further comments from the complainants, I changed my decision and on 
balance decided to uphold it. Both parties have received copies of these provisional 
decisions, but for completeness I include an extract from both decisions below.
First provisional decision issued in April 2021
I have provisionally decided not to uphold Mr F and Mrs Fs complaint. Here are my 
reasons:
I have first of all looked into whether Mr F as the sole policy holder was eligible for the
cover provided. I can see from reading Mr F and Mrs Fs most recent submission, that
this is the basis of their complaint. They have been clear about why they think they were
mis-sold the policy and also have provided supporting evidence. I would like to thank
them for the time they have spent in putting this together and submitting it to our service.
Mr F and Mrs F say that Mr F was not the main wage earner at the time they were sold
the MPPI policy. They point to a term given in the insurance certificate that says the
benefits of the policy will apply to the insured borrower provided they are the main
income earner at the effective date of insurance.
Our adjudicator recently sent a response to Mr F and Mrs F, not upholding their complaint. 
They said Mr F would have met the eligibility criteria given and so would have
been able to claim benefit if needed. They listed the eligibility criteria provided by
Santander and from reading this I can see that Mr F would have met those terms and so
agree with our adjudicator that he would have been eligible for the cover and for the
benefits provided.
I have read the terms in the insurance certificate that Mr F and Mrs F have cited and also
seen the evidence provided that Mrs F earnt a higher wage at the time of sale. But I have
also seen on the complaint form submitted that Mr F and Mrs F said Mr F worked in a
sector that was quite unstable so decided the policy should cover only him. So, I am
persuaded after reading this, that Mr F and Mrs F and the representative from Santander
agreed it would be suitable for Mr F to be covered for the reason given. And as Mr F met
the eligibility criteria and would have been able to claim benefit, the policy was set up in
his name. So, I dont uphold Mr F and Mrs Fs complaint on this point as I am currently
minded that Mr F could have claimed benefit if needed (because he met the eligibility
criteria) and can see the reasons why Mr F being covered was suitable. I do
acknowledge what Mr F and Mrs F have said about what is stated in the insurance
certificate, but on balance I think Mr F was eligible to claim benefit and it was agreed by
both parties that he would be covered, for the reasons that I have already given.
I then looked into whether Mr F and Mrs F were given a choice to have the MPPI policy.
This has been a difficult issue for me to consider as I havent been able to see the sales
documentation that would have been used at the time of sale. Although this is
understandable due to the many years that have passed since the date of sale.
I have though considered what I know of sales that happened at that time and also read
Mr F and Mrs Fs recollections. Having done this, I cant be sure what was discussed
between Mr F and Mrs F and Santander. Its completely understandable that Mr F and
Mrs Fs recollections are not detailed and as I have already said the sale took place
many years ago. And because of this and considering what I know of sales carried out
by Santander at that time, I dont think the evidence is strong enough for me safely to
say Santander didnt explain that MPPI was an optional feature. I havent, on this
occasion, seen enough evidence to be able to safely draw that conclusion.
Moving on, I need to consider next whether Santander provided advice to Mr F and Mrs
F or not during the sale. Both parties agree that advice was given so Santander needed
to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr F.
And based on the information Ive seen, I think the policy was suitable for Mr F as the
sole policy holder. I say this after considering Mr Fs circumstances at the time of sale.
Because, although he says he cant remember his sick pay entitlement and he held
some savings, the MPPI policy would have paid out in addition to his means and most
likely for longer (36 months per accident or sickness claim). Having the policy in place
would mean Mr F and Mrs F could use any provisions they may have had to cover other
expenses. So, I think Mr F would have found some use by having the cover.
Mr B was also not affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits
such as, for example, those that affect self-employed people or policy holders with pre-
existing medical conditions. It is unlikely Mr F and Mrs F needed better advice or
information about the policys exclusions and limitations and if they had received clear
information on these terms, I dont think it would have put them off. So, I am persuaded
the policy was suitable for Mr F.
I am not sure if Santander gave Mr F and Mrs F clear information about the costs of the
policy, but even if it did, I dont think Mr F and Mrs F would have done anything
differently for the same reasons as I have already given. Ive also seen nothing to
suggest it was unaffordable.
In conclusion, it has been a difficult decision to make due to the lack of information provided
about this sale, but based on what I have, I do not think the policy was mis-sold.
Second provisional decision issued in August 2021I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response 
to my provisional decision.
Santander did not respond to the findings in my provisional decision.
Mr F and Mrs F have sent in a submission on 12 May 2021 and have made several 
points regarding their complaint and my provisional decision. I will summarise what I 
think the main issues are below, but I can assure them that I have considered all that 
they have said carefully. What I think the main issues they have raised are:
The PPI policy seems to have been designed only for someone who is the main 
income earner. They say it is the only way that the written inclusions in the 
insurance certificate makes sense. They query why on multiple occasions I state 
that Mr F would have been eligible with no evidence of this.
Mr F and Mrs F say Mr F was never the main income earner and the assumption 
of him being so was incorrect. They say in joint mortgages its clear that the 
policy had been designed only for the main income earner.
Mr F and Mrs F say I have an entirely incorrect understanding of their case. The 
basis of their complaint is the fact they had a policy recommended to them that 
was wholly inappropriate to their circumstances. Mr F they say was the only 
person from the joint mortgage who was covered by the policy  crucially not Mrs 
F.
They go on to say the criteria in the insurance certificate states benefits will 
apply to the insured borrower provided he/she is the main income earner at the 
time the insurance is effected.
Mr F and Mrs F say it is not apparent why I draw an equivalence between 
Eligibility to purchase a policy and the ability to claim the benefit. There is 
nothing at all to say that merely being able to purchase the policy makes one 
able to claim from it unhindered by other considerations.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read Mr F and Mrs Fs response to my provisional decision and the points they 
made. This includes that Mr F was the sole policy holder, but he was not the main income 
earner, something that they say the insurance certificate states he needed to be in order 
for benefits within the policy to be applied.
Our service has very recently asked Santander whether it still holds a copy of the full 
policy document for the PPI policy. Santander has come back to us and informed us that 
it no longer has a copy. This is understandable due to the many years that has passed 
since this policy was sold to Mr F and Mrs F back in 1991. But with that being the case, I 
havent been able to check whether the terms given in the insurance certificate and in 
particular the one put forward by Mr F and Mrs F, are the same or similar as stated in the full policy document. This being the document that would more likely than not would have 
been used in consideration of any potential claim for benefit by Mr F.
So, I only have the insurance certificate in front of me and Santander has confirmed that this 
is all that it has from the time of sale too. With this being so and having re-read all that has 
been submitted by both parties, I am now minded to uphold Mr F and Mrs Fs complaint 
regarding the sale in 1991 and I will explain why. 
Ive looked carefully at whether Santander gave Mr F and Mrs F clear, fair and not 
misleading information so they could decide if they wanted to have PPI. This includes 
drawing Mr F and Mrs Fs attention to the policys costs, benefits and significant or unusual 
exclusions.
I think on balance a shortcoming has occurred here as to what was and what wasnt
covered within the policys terms and conditions. And this led to an exclusion not being 
disclosed by Santander clearly to Mr F and Mrs F. On the insurance certificate that has been 
supplied by Santander it states benefits will apply to the insured borrower provided he/she 
is the main income earner at the time the insurance is effected. Mr F was made the insured 
borrower only by Santander. Mr F and Mrs F have since provided information to our service 
that shows that he wasnt the main income earner at the time of sale and so wouldnt, in all 
likelihood, have been able to claim benefit if needed. This was a significant exclusion that 
needed to be drawn clearly to their attention and I cannot see that it was.
It is not clear to me whether Mr F and Mrs F would have been given clear information either 
verbally or through documentation. So, looking at all the evidence provided overall, I cant 
reasonably say that Mr F and Mrs F would have been alerted to the particular significance 
this exclusion is likely to have had for them, if Mr F had needed to make a claim. On 
balance, I dont consider that Santander did sufficiently draw the full details of this restrictive 
term to their attention.
Having found that failing I must go on to consider if Mr F and Mrs F would have reached a 
different decision had they been given clearer information. I think they would have, and I say 
this because I think if Santander had given Mr F and Mrs F all the information it should have 
done, they would have understood that the policy wouldnt give Mr F or Mrs F the cover they 
wanted or needed on their mortgage. So it follows that Santander needs to put things right.
I asked both parties again to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in 
response to my second provisional decision.
This time, Mr F and Mrs F did not respond to the findings in my second provisional 
decision.
Santander has sent in a submission on 19 August 2021. It says: 
It has never been a requirement to take out the policies with their borrowings. Mr 
F and Mrs F would have been duly advised that the policy was optional.
It can find no evidence that the policy was unsuitable for them.
The customers were deemed to have sufficient time to be able to read and 
understand the information at their leisure. 
It does not think it mis-sold the policy. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I have read Santanders response to my second provisional decision and acknowledge 
the comments it has made about Mr F and Mrs Fs complaint. But it hasnt made any 
comments or provided any further information regarding why I upheld Mr F and Mrs Fs 
complaint. This being that it didnt give clear information regarding a specific term on the 
insurance certificate. One that would have held significance for Mr F and Mrs F. If it had 
provided clear information on this, I think on balance it would have put them off from 
having the policy. 
So, as it hasnt responded specifically to what I have said about Mr F and Mrs Fs 
complaint, I see no reason to depart from my findings given in my second provisional 
decision sent out in August 2021. So, I uphold Mr F and Mrs Fs complaint and Santander 
now needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr F and Mrs F in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. Santander should:
Pay Mr F and Mrs F the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The rate
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr F and Mrs F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander
must give Mr F and Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for 
one.
  
My final decision
 I uphold Mr F and Mrs Fs complaint about Santander UK Plc.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman