DRN-1699109
 
The complaint
Mr M says Lloyds Bank PLC (through Cheltenham & Gloucester plc) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. Ill refer to the business as Lloyds in the rest of this 
decision. 
What happened
Mr M took out a mortgage and PPI through Lloyds in 1998. The PPI was added shortly after 
the mortgage was taken out. The policy covered him for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. Although it's accepted that Mr M had PPI, there is a dispute about the 
amount of mortgage cover Mr M had, and the premiums Mr M paid.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M didnt accept our adjudicators view, he 
said Lloyds had made mistakes and mis-sold PPI to him. He said he had been unfairly 
treated from day 1.
Mr M is also concerned about the way Lloyds has handled:  
some aspects of this complaint; and
a potential PPI sickness claim he may have had from 2000.
 
Im just dealing with Mr Ms mis-sale complaint here. Mr M will need to pursue those other 
matters with Lloyds first, if he decides to. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know exactly what was discussed when the insurance was added. But, looking at the 
paperwork Mr M signed at the time, I can see he signed a separate PPI application form to 
apply for PPI. Mr M said PPI wasnt explained to him and he didnt agree to take out PPI. 
But, looking at the paperwork, I think it likely that PPI was discussed separately. I say this 
because PPI wasnt covered on the mortgage application form, and he signed the 
PPI application some months after. So, I think Mr M opted to take PPI and thats why it was 
added. I can understand why he may not remember that now after so much time.
Lloyds recommended Mr M take PPI. So it had to consider whether it was suitable for him. In 
addition, it had to give him information that was clear, fair and not misleading about the 
PPI, so that he could make an informed choice about whether it was right for him and he wanted to buy it. If there was a problem with the sale, then I need to consider whether I 
think Mr M has lost out because of that.
I cant see that this policy was unsuitable for Mr M. Ill explain why.
Mr M appeared eligible to take out PPI given his circumstances.
Mr M initially said he was self-employed at the time of sale. He later said that he may 
have been employed. The mortgage paperwork completed in April 1998, and the PPI 
application dated July 1998, both showed that Mr M was working. It recorded that he 
had been employed since 1994. I think it more likely therefore, that Mr M was 
employed at the time he took out the mortgage and PPI. Mr M initially told us he 
wouldnt have got any work related benefits. I dont know if he would've been eligible 
to receive sick pay through the employer mentioned on the mortgage and PPI 
applications. But, even if he wouldve, the PPI policy wouldve paid out on top of any 
work related benefits and for up to 12 months per successful claim. So, I still think 
PPI couldve provided Mr M with a valuable benefit. 
Mr M didnt mention having any other resources he couldve made his repayments 
from, so I think PPI couldve provided him with valuable protection to safeguard his 
home. The policy wouldve also have covered him if he lost his job unexpectedly.
I cant see that Mr M wouldve been affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover (such as having a pre-existing medical condition) at the time he took out 
the policy, so I dont think having better information about these things wouldve 
made any difference to his decision to take out PPI. Mr M likely couldve benefited 
from everything the policy offered.
The premium was paid monthly, so he couldve cancelled PPI at any time without 
losing out financially. He didnt have to pay interest on the premiums. I cant see that 
the policy was unaffordable.
Its not clear exactly how much PPI cover Mr M had, Lloyds said he had 100%. Mr M 
thought his premiums were higher than Lloyds said they were. But, on either basis, I 
think PPI wouldve provided Mr M with valuable cover in his circumstances.  I also 
think he wouldve understood that he had to pay a separate amount for the cover. 
Ive seen some correspondence from Lloyds to Mr M around the time he took out the 
mortgage about the cover he had. The cost appeared affordable. So, this doesnt 
change my view. 
 
Its possible Lloyds couldve given Mr M clearer information, particularly about the costs and 
benefits. But, for the reasons explained, I think he wouldve likely still taken out the policy 
because of the protection it afforded him and it appeared suitable for his needs and 
affordable.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
 
 
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman