DRN-2381186
The complaint
Mr V complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc misinformed him about the timescales involved in 
clearing a euro-denominated cheque (bankers draft). He says the cheque took longer than it 
should to clear which, due to exchange rate movements, meant he received a lower amount 
of money than he should have.
Mr V said HSBC had offered compensation based on the timeframe he shouldve been told 
not based on the different timeframes he was given.
What happened
Mr V opened an account with HSBC in 2019 in order to deposit the sale proceeds from the 
sale of his European property. He had a European bank account but was aware that the fees 
could be high. Mr V says the normal process for this type of sale resulted in a cheque 
(bankers draft) being received. He checked the timeframe for this to be processed by HSBC 
and says he was told it would take two to 16 days. On this basis he says he decided to 
deposit the funds with HSBC rather than with his European bank.
Mr V deposited the cheque with HSBC on 25 September 2019. He says he was told at that 
time it would take two to 14 days to clear. As the cheque hadnt cleared by 15 October he 
contacted HSBC. At this time, he says he was told that days meant working days. He says 
he contacted HSBC on more occasions due to the funds not clearing and the staff couldnt 
give him a clear explanation for the delay. He says he was also told the cheque would take 
six to eight weeks to clear.
Mr V says the cleared funds were received on 5 November but by this time the exchange 
rate had deteriorated meaning he received less than he would have without the delay. 
HSBC accepted that there had been a delay in the clearing process for Mr Vs cheque. It 
says Mr V should have received his funds after 16 working days, but this didnt happen. It 
explained that its fees varied depending on the type of account the cheque is paid into and 
that a charge of EUR 39 should have been applied but due to the delays no charge was 
made. In recognition of the delay, HSBC offered to refund Mr V the difference between the 
amount he received, and the amount he would have received for the converted amount had 
this happened after 16 working days. This was calculated as an amount of £1,789.99. It also 
offered to pay Mr V £200 for the distress and inconvenience he had been caused.
Mr V didnt accept HSBCs offer and referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He thought it reasonable to accept when 
mentioning days that HSBC meant working days and so he thought the offer from HSBC 
based on the rates at 16 working days was reasonable.
Mr V didnt accept our investigators view. He said that the compensation offer from HSBC 
was based on the information he should have been given about the timescales, but this 
wasnt the information he received. He didnt accept that he should have known when HSBC 
mentioned days it was referring to working days and he thought the compensation 
calculation should be based on the information he received not what he should have been 
told. Mr V calculated this as being compensation of £3,788 along with the £200 for distress 
and inconvenience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr V set up an account with HSBC as he wished to deposit the proceeds from his 
European property sale. I note he had another option available to him as he had a 
European bank account. But based on the information it appears Mr V checked the 
fees and timescales and wanted to use the HSBC account.
The fees that should have been charged were waived due to the delays in the 
cheque clearing process which I find reasonable.
HSBC accepted that it didnt meet its timescales for clearing Mr Vs cheque. 
Therefore, it is clear a mistake has been made. In such circumstances we would 
expect action to be taken to put the consumer back in the position they would have 
been had the mistake not been made. In this case the delay meant that Mr V 
received a less favourable exchange rate than would have been the case without the 
delay. HSBC offered compensation for this which I find reasonable.
The outstanding issue is whether HSBCs compensation offer is reasonable. HSBC 
says that Mr V should have received the funds after 16 working days and has 
calculated the compensation based on the exchange rate at that time. Mr V doesnt 
think this is fair as he says he made his decision on the basis the process would take 
16 days. I understand why Mr V is upset by the delay and his point about days not 
working days. However, in this case while I accept HSBC could have made it clearer 
to Mr V when he asked about the timeframe that it was using working days, I find that 
Mr V should have been reasonably aware of this. I say this because he has noted 
that he knew the timeframe was in working days for UK cheque clearing and the 
account terms and conditions refer to working days regarding payments. Therefore, 
on balance, I find that Mr V was given the correct advice about the timescales when 
he first discussed this.
Mr V then received different information about the timescales while he was chasing 
his funds. Mr V was at one time told the cheque could take up to eight weeks to clear 
but this was incorrect as that appears to have been a previous timeframe that was no 
longer relevant. As he had already deposited the cheque at this time I cannot say this 
information had any impact on his decision although I accept it would have caused 
him concern and that Mr V wasnt provided with the service he should have been. 
Mr V received his funds on 5 November. This was later than should have been the 
case. However, as I noted above I do not find it unreasonable to accept that the 
reference to 16 days meant 16 working days and so I find compensation based on 
that timescale is reasonable.
Mr V wasnt provided with the service he should have been. He was given different 
timescales for the processing and had to chase his funds due to the delay. Therefore, I agree that he should be paid compensation for the distress and inconvenience he 
was caused, and I agree with our investigators comments that the offer of £200 
made by HSBC is fair.
Based on the reasons set out above, I find the offer made by HSBC to resolve this complaint 
is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that the offer made by HSBC UK Bank Plc to compensate Mr V for the 
difference in exchange rates arising from the delay in processing his cheque based on the 
rate after 16 working days - and £200 for the distress and inconvenience - is reasonable. 
This amount should be paid to Mr V, if this hasnt already happened.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman