DRN-3865125
The complaint
Mr L complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) Morses gave him a loan he couldnt 
afford to repay because at the time he had other short-term loans that needed repaying.
What happened
Mr L took one £400 loan from Morses on 31 January 2022. Mr L was due to make 35 weekly
repayments of £20. Had Mr L repaid the loan in line with the credit agreement he wouldve
repaid a total of £700. Mr L has had some problems repaying this loan, and as of 
August 2022, a total outstanding balance remains of £640.
Following Mr Ls complaint, Morses issued its final response letter to him. In summary, it said
it had carried out proportionate checks which included asking Mr L about his income and
expenditure and carrying out a credit search before the loan was approved. Based on these
checks, Morses was confident Mr L would be able to afford his weekly credit commitment.
Unhappy with this response, Mr L referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who didnt uphold it. He concluded Morses
had carried out proportionate checks which showed the loan repayments to be affordable.
Mr L didnt agree with the assessment, and Ive summarised his responses below:
He was over £20,000 in debt at the time.
Mr L had numerous defaults at the time.
Mr L was supporting his family at the time and the loan wasnt affordable.
As part of the assessment, Mr L acknowledges he spoke to an agent on the phone, 
and he was roughly guessing the answers to the questions. 
Mr L had  also maxed out his overdraft.
Morses didnt respond to or acknowledge the adjudicators assessment.
As no agreement has been reached, the case was passed to me for a decision. 
I proceeded to issue a provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to 
uphold Mr Ls complaint. A copy of the provisional findings follows this in italics and smaller 
font to differentiate it and it forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr L could afford to pay back the amount hed
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to
the circumstances. Morses checks could have taken into account a number of different
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ls income
and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr L. These factors include:
Mr L having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr L having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr L coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also suggestive 
of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr L.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr L could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr L was able to repay his loan
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ls complaint.
Morses has shown, that as part of the affordability assessment it asked Mr L for details of his
income and expenditure. Mr Ls income has been recorded as being £470 per week. Mr L
also declared his weekly outgoings were £274.50.
This left Mr L with disposable weekly income of £195.50. This was more than sufficient for
Morses to believe Mr L could afford the repayment of £20 per week, the loan therefore
looked affordable.
However, while Morses knew that Mr Ls outgoings came to £274.50 per week, of that £222
was actually being used to service existing credit. So, I dont think it was right for Morses to
have thought that Mr L could make these payments in a sustainable manner, given that
around 50% of his income  based on what he had declared - was already going to pay
other creditors.
It also isnt reasonable to have believed, that Mr Ls other outgoings, such as food, media etc
wouldve been around £50 per week  this just isnt plausible. The results of the credit
checks, which I come on to below, also, in my view show Mr L was likely a customer in likely
financial distress.
Before the loan was approved Morses also carried out a credit search and it has provided
the Financial Ombudsman Service with a copy of the results it received. I want to add that
although Morses carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one,
let alone one to a specific standard.
Therefore, its possible that the information Morses received may not entirely reflect the
information Mr L may be able to see in his own credit report. There could be for a number of
reasons for this, such as Morses only asking for certain pieces of information or recentlending not yet appearing on his credit report. But what Morses couldnt do, was carry out a
credit search and then not react to the to the information it received  if necessary.
Morses was also entitled to rely on the information it was given by the credit reference
agency. So, Ive taken a look at the results to see whether there was anything contained
within it that wouldve either prompted Morses to have carried out further checks or possibly
have declined Mr Ls application.
Having reviewed these results, I can see some quite concerning information that ought to
have made it realise that Mr M was likely already over-extended with other creditors. Ive
summarised these below.
I can see at the time this loan was approved Mr L had 15 active credit accounts with 
outstanding balances of £22,230.
Mr L had opened two new credit accounts within the last three months  a sign that he was 
regularly seeking new credit.
Within the last 12 months, Mr L had opened and accessed credit in excess of £16,000.
Mr L had seven defaults recorded on his credit file, with the most recent of these being 
recorded 15 months before the loan was approved. Mr L had only been able to successfully 
repay one of the defaulted accounts.
Morses was told, that Mr Ls monthly commitment to creditors was £938. This, is a significant 
sum, as represents around 50% if Mr Ls declared income.
In my view, Mr Ls credit search results showed that he had a high amount of outstanding
debt, with repayments due (already) of £938 per month (before this loan was paid) and a
history of regularly defaulting on credit accounts within the last three years.
Given the information that Mr L provided Morses as part of his income and expenditure as
well as the credit check results, Morses, at a minimum ought to have verified the information
Mr L had provided  perhaps through a bank statement.
However, as part of assessing the loan, Morses also had to consider whether the
repayments would be sustainable for Mr L  given what Ive seen, especially in light of the
high amount of debt (and Mr L already paying a significant portion to other creditors) Ive
concluded that Morses didnt make a fair lending decision. And Im intending to uphold the
complaint about the loan.
Ive outlined below what Morses needs to order to put things right for Mr L  but it is worth
saying that Mr L hasnt fully repaid Morses the capital that he borrowed, so at best, his
overall outstanding balance will reduce to around £340  assuming no further payments
have been made since Morses provided its statement of account.
Response to the provisional decision
Both Mr L and Morses were asked to provide anything further for consideration as soon as 
possible, but in any event, no later than 11 January 2023.
Mr L emailed and said he accepted the provisional findings. However, he added:
I dont agree with owing the company any money as Im sure they have gone into 
liquidation as i recieve (sic) and email which I can forward to you if you wish
Later, a copy of an email Mr L had received from Morses about the proposed Scheme of 
Arrangement was forwarded to us. 
Morses also emailed to say that it accepts the findings of the provisional decision. Although the ultimate deadline of 11 January 2023 for responses to the provisional decision 
hasnt yet passed, as both parties have responded I see no reason to delay the issuing of 
the final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties, accept the findings of the provisional decision I see no reason to depart from 
what I previously said. I still dont think Morses ought to have advanced the loan to Mr L 
because it was unlikely to be affordable for him. 
However, Mr L has said that he doesnt think the outstanding balance ought to be repaid. No 
further information as to why this is the case has been provided, beyond the details of the 
Scheme of Arrangement email Mr L sent. 
At the moment, this is currently at the proposal stage, and it doesnt mean the lender 
(Morses) is liquated. Instead, the Scheme of Arrangement can limit the types of complaint 
that are raised and provide one pot of money to which redress will be paid out off. But as the 
email provided by Mr L shows, this scheme hasnt yet been approved. 
I also havent seen anything else to make me think Morses ought to write off the balance 
Mr L owes it, but that doesnt mean that this option doesnt remain open to Morses  if it 
considers it reasonable when providing forbearance help to Mr L. So, as it stands, an 
outstanding balance will be due to be paid and I leave it up to Morses and Mr L to discuss a 
way forward. 
Ive outlined below, what Morses needs to do in order to put things right. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it not lent to Mr L, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there are a
great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr L may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr L in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr L would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mr L this loan.If Morses has sold the outstanding debts it should buy it back if it is able to do so and then
take the following steps. If Morses isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with
the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on this loan, 
and treat any repayments made by Mr L as though they had been repayments 
towards the principal of the loan. If this results in Mr L having made overpayments 
then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated 
on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date 
the complaint is settled.
B. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Morses should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr L. Id also remind Morses of its obligation to treat 
Mr L fairly and with forbearance if necessary.
C. Morses should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mr Ls credit 
file in relation to this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should
give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Ls 
complaint.
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mr L as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman