DRN-2178508
The complaint
Mrs E complains about the way in which Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
(VWFS) handled the settlement of a finance agreement she had taken out with it.    
What happened
In May 2019 Mrs E entered into a hire purchase agreement for a new car. Amongst other 
things, the agreement recorded:
Mrs E was to make 35 monthly payments of just over £186, followed by a final payment 
of just under £3,900. 
If Mrs E did not keep her side of the agreement but had paid at least a third of what was 
due under the agreement, VWFS could not take back the car without a court order.
Mrs E was to keep the car comprehensively insured. 
If the car was to become an actual or constructive total loss, Mrs E would have to pay 
the balance due under the agreement, less any rebate required by law and less 
anything recovered from the insurers.
If Mrs E was in breach of the agreement, she would have to pay VWFSs reasonable 
costs and expenses arising from the breach.
In August 2019 the car was written off in an accident. Mrs Es son was driving at the time, 
and the circumstances of the accident were such that the insurers would not cover the 
damage. 
VWFS said this meant the terms of the agreement had been breached and that the full 
amount due under the agreement was immediately payable. It issued a default notice 
requiring payment of over £8,200 by 18 February 2020.
Mrs E said that the insurer had offered £284.04 for the sale of the car. VWFS offered to sell 
the car itself, as it thought it might be able to get more for it. VWFS took possession of the 
car and a few days later Mrs E settled the amount owing under the agreement  before the 
expiry of the default notice. 
VWFS then said that, since Mrs E had repaid the finance, she was responsible for selling the 
car. Mrs E complained and the car was sold on her behalf for £300  a little more than the 
insurer had offered. 
VWFS then said that it had incurred costs of £452, made up of a repossession fee and 
auction costs, for which Mrs E was liable. It used the auction proceeds of £300 to reduce the 
amount due and wrote off the remaining £152 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mrs E complained to this service about the way VWFS had handled the matter. Our 
investigator acknowledged that VWFS could have handled things better, especially in its 
communication with Mrs E, but thought that waiving the £152 to which it was entitled was a 
fair way to resolve things. 
The investigator did not accept, as Mrs E had said, that VWFS promised to pay £248.04 in 
addition to the sale proceeds; rather, that was the minimum it would credit to Mrs Es 
account, whatever the sale price of the car.
Mrs E didnt accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, 
and for similar reasons. I agree with the investigators findings about the sale proceeds. 
VWFS agreed at least to match the insurers offer, not to make that as a payment in addition 
to the sale proceeds.
VWFS did not need a court order before taking possession of the car. It only needed a court 
order after one third of the amount due under the hire purchase agreement had been paid. 
Im satisfied too that the repossession and auction costs were reasonably incurred and that 
VWFS could look to Mrs E to pay them.  
I agree that VWFS could have explained things better than it did, especially in respect of the 
sale of the car. I think however that waiving the £152 that would otherwise have been due 
was fair compensation in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to take 
any further steps to resolve Mrs Es complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman