DRN-3691145
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice given by Retirement Direct Limited (RDL) to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal 
pension plan (PPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
Our investigator thought that the Financial Ombudsman Service couldnt consider Mr Cs 
complaint. Mr C disagreed with the investigators opinion. The complaint was then passed to 
me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that the Financial Ombudsman Service could 
consider Mr Cs complaint but that it shouldnt be upheld. A copy of the background to the 
complaint, and my provisional findings, are below in italics and form part of this final 
decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Mr C approached RDL in May 2007 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. RDL says 
that Mr C approached it after he saw one of its adverts about pension unlocking. Ive not seen 
this advert.
RDL gathered some information about Mr Cs pension scheme. Then in September 2007 Mr C 
and RDL had a telephone fact-finding appointment to gather information about Mr Cs 
circumstances and objectives. Briefly, Mr C said that he would like to access his pension fund to 
pay off some of his mortgage and other debt. This would allow him to potentially retire sooner 
and live in an overseas property. RDL also carried out an assessment of Mr Cs attitude to risk, 
which it deemed to be more than moderate.
RDLs call notes show that it explained at this early point that it was unlikely to recommend 
that Mr C transfer his DB scheme benefits as it couldnt see he had a financial need to do this 
and it would potentially leave him worse off.
After some further telephone contact, on 17 October 2007, RDL sent Mr C a written advice 
document. This summarised all of the information that had been gathered in respect of Mr Cs 
circumstances and his pension planning. Whilst the letter did outline Mr Cs transfer options, the 
crux of the advice given to him in respect of the DB pension transfer was that he should not do it. 
It explained that he should leave his pension planning as it was, and he had better alternatives to 
manage his debt if he wanted them. There was no evidence that the debt was causing him a 
problem and so Mr C shouldnt give up his guaranteed pension benefits to repay it.
However, the report also acknowledged that Mr C had already indicated that he would like to 
proceed with the transfer in any event. So RDL asked if this was still the case that he confirm in 
writing, and in his own words, that he wanted to transfer. It confirmed it would treat him as an 
insistent client and the advice would now be chargeable.
On 22 October 2007 Mr C wrote to RDL and said, in summary, that he would like to proceed 
with the transfer. He said he was due to incur expenses that he would struggle to afford and he 
would need to borrow to fund these. He said this would cause him problems.
On receipt of this letter RDL contacted Mr C and said that whilst he had confirmed his 
objectives, it wasnt clear from his handwritten statement that he understood the report 
provided and that he was aware of the consequences of giving up his pension benefits. RDLs 
telephone note documents that it talked this through with Mr C and he still wanted to proceed 
with the transfer.
After this, in a letter dated 29 October 2007, RDL sent Mr C a second summary of its advice. It 
again confirmed that if he proceeded it would be on an insistent customer basis. RDL repeated 
the information it had already sent about the costs and implications of this and that its advice 
was not to transfer. Mr C gave instructions, and completed the transfer forms, to proceed with 
the transfer on 13 November 2007.
Ive noted the correspondence between the time of advice and the actual transfer which took 
place in April 2008. It isnt necessary to refer to all of this here. But what is notable is that the 
transfer value reduced in March 2008. This was explained to Mr C, both by the transferring 
scheme and RDL, and Mr C confirmed that he still wanted to proceed.
In April 2008 Mr Cs transfer was completed. His PPP had received a transfer payment of
£83,261.95 and it paid tax-free cash of £19,865.49 to him and invested the balance in line 
with his attitude to risk.
Mr C complained in 2020 to RDL about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said that the 
transfer wasnt appropriate for him and he may have lost out financially. He also thinks that he 
wasnt an insistent client and RDL advised him to transfer, or it didnt clearly advise him not to 
transfer.
RDL didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said that it thought that Mr Cs complaint was out of 
time as he had complained more than six years after the advice was given and more than 
three years after he ought to have been aware he had cause to complain.
RDL also said that Mr C changed advisers in 2013, and so he should also have been aware at 
this point if the pension transfer wasnt what he wanted. And his new advisers should have 
reviewed the transfer at this time and so they should be responsible for any losses after this.
Mr C referred his complaint to our service. An investigator didnt think we could consider the 
complaint. She said that the subject of the complaint was known at the point of sale and so the 
complaint had been brought too late.
Mr Cs representative disagreed, saying that it wasnt right to say the complaint was out of time. 
This was because Mr C confirmed when the transfer was made that he didnt have any 
concerns. And so, its not reasonable to say he was aware that he could complain at the point of 
sale.
Mr Cs representative also said that Mr Cs new advisers confirmed in 2013 that there was no 
problem with the advice, and this adviser did not give Mr C pensions advice. It confirmed that 
Mr C became aware in 2020 when he was moving towards retirement that the advice may not 
have been in his best interests. It again said that Mr C didnt fully understand the advice he was 
given, he felt rushed and he wasnt aware of what an insistent client was. It said Mr C does not 
believe that the implications and risks of transferring away from his final salary scheme were 
explained to him in enough detail, he has explained that if they had been, he would not have 
gone ahead with the transfer.
Mr Cs representative went on to detail why it didnt think the advice was appropriate for him.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to me 
to make a final decision.
The jurisdiction of this complaint, and why I currently think it was brought in timeThe relevant time limits for bringing a complaint to this service are set out in the Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) section of the FCAs handbook at DISP 2.8. It is these time limits I 
must apply when considering if Mr Cs complaint was brought in time.
DISP 2.8.2R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service: 
(2)more than:
(a)six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b)three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint
Clearly Mr Cs complaint was referred to this service more than six years after the event 
hes complaining about  the contact with RDLs that led to Mr C transferring his DB 
pension benefits in 2008.
But the three year period set out at DISP 2.8.2R (2)(b) can potentially extend the deadline for 
complaining depending on when a complainant become aware, or ought to reasonably have 
become aware, he had cause for complaint.
So, Ive considered when Mr C was aware, or he ought reasonably to have been aware, he 
had cause to complain.
When did Mr C become aware he had cause for complaint?
Mr C representative says he first become aware he had cause to complain 2020. In his initial 
complaint it said that:
Mr C advised that in 2020, he was thinking of his retirement options as he was approaching the 
retirement age of 65 and came across our online advert which made him question the advice he 
received in 2007.
Having looked at what Mr C has said I find his account of when he realised he had reason to 
complain to be plausible, and his representative has consistently said this is when he thought 
he had reason to complain.
Ive not seen anything which clearly shows Mr C knew he had cause to complain before 2020. 
For example, there isnt anything to suggests that he tried to complain earlier than this or 
anything hes said which confirms he knew he had reason to complain earlier. So, I think that 
Mr C didnt realise he had cause to complain until 2020.
Is it the case Mr C ought reasonably to have been aware of cause for complaint more 
than three years before he complained?
While I think that Mr C complained within three years of when he had actual awareness of cause 
to complain, this doesnt, on its own, mean he complained within the three year part of the time 
limit.
I say this because there are effectively two parts to the three year limb of the time limit. Theres a 
part, which directly relates to Mr C himself  that is, was he aware he had cause to complain. 
The second part is that although Mr C may not have realised he had cause to complain until 
2020, it still might be the case that he ought reasonably to have known this earlier. That is 
because a reasonable person in his circumstances should really have known they had cause to 
complain.
The main substance of Mr Cs complaint is that RDL shouldnt have given advice to transfer the DB scheme because it ought to have realised it wasnt in his best interests to do this.
So, I need to agree that Mr C ought reasonably to have suspected this mightve been the 
case more than three years before he complained, in order for him to have complained 
outside this part of the time limit. Ive carefully thought about this matter.
I think that in order for it to be the case that Mr C ought to have been aware he had cause for 
complaint, it would have to be the case that he ought to have been aware of a number of things. 
He would have needed to know that there was a problem. And it would also need to be clear to 
him that the transfer caused this problem, and that RDLs actions (or its failure to act) contributed 
to or caused this problem.
Any potential loss stems from the transfer made in 2007. So, the transfer will have caused 
this potential loss, and RDL was the business that processed this transfer. So, Mr C could 
have been aware of the business he could complain about in 2007.
But Im not persuaded that Mr C should have been aware that this transfer would cause the 
problems he now says it has. Or that RDL should have acted any differently.
Mr Cs complaint is about his retirement benefits. But, as our investigator said, this was 
discussed at the time of sale and it was documented that the transfer would likely lead to him 
having a reduced pension at retirement. Mr C was giving this up for more pressing needs, and he 
thought this was the right thing to do at the time.
So I dont think its reasonable to say that Mr C would have been aware he had cause to 
complain at the time of the advice in 2007, he clearly (rightly or wrongly) thought the transfer 
was right for him at the time of sale. So I dont see how he could also be aware that he should 
be complaining about the advice at the same time.
Mr Cs representative has said that his new advisers informed him that the transfer was 
reasonable. So this wouldnt have given him cause to complain. This meeting took place a 
long time ago, and Ive no way of knowing with any degree of certainty what was discussed. 
For example, it might have been that his retirement planning wasnt really covered in any 
detail. So, I cant reasonably say that Mr C shouldve complained because of this contact.
And, any new adviser doesnt take on the responsibility for previous advice. This would only 
happen if further advice was given, and I dont think this happened here in respect of Mr Cs 
retirement planning. So, I dont think the contact Mr C had with another adviser means that he 
should have complained earlier than he did.
Bearing in mind all of this, and having taken everything into account, I dont think Mr C ought 
reasonably to have had cause to make this complaint about RDL at any stage more than three 
years before he complained.
So, it follows that I think Mr C complained in time because he complained within three years of 
becoming aware, or when he ought to have been aware, of the reason hes now complaining. 
And I think that we are able to look at his complaint. Ive gone on to do this below.
What Ive provisionally decided about the merits of the complaint  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why below.
The regulator expected a prospective investor to receive sufficient, clear information to make an informed investment decision based on a firm understanding of the risks involved and a 
knowledge of what protection, rights, expectations and options they may be giving up.
At least one illustration for the personal pension/section-32 plan had to be on a similar basis to 
the DB scheme, e.g. what spouses pension and increases in payment were shown.
A reason why letter or equivalent now had to be issued as soon as practicable after the 
recommendation. It should:
explain why that advice is suitable. That explanation should take explicit account of the 
alternative of remaining within the occupational scheme. and
demonstrate a real link between the circumstances, objectives and risk profile of the 
investor, and the recommendation made to him or her by the firm.
Presumption of unsuitability
COB 5.3.29G specified the information a business should gather from the consumer and the DB 
scheme in order to assess suitability, in a similar way to the LAUTRO/FIMBRA guidance.
Importantly it also said for the first time that:
When advising a customer who is, or is eligible to be, an active member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme whether he should opt out or transfer, a firm should:
(a) start by assuming it will not be suitable, and
(b) only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence available 
at the time that it is in the customer's best interests.
This is known as the presumption of unsuitability and has been renumbered to COBS 
19.1.6G in the current FCA rulebook.
The information for the point of sale says that the transfer wasnt suitable for Mr C. So, I dont 
need to look at this in detail. Ive outlined the main reasons why it wasnt in Mr Cs best interests 
to transfer below.
Financial viability
I cant see that RDL calculated any critical yield, or similar, when looked into Mr Cs pension 
transfer. This would have given Mr C an indication of the investment returns the PPP would 
need to replicate the DB scheme benefits.
But the suitability letter did say that if Mr C cashed in his DB scheme pension benefits then he 
(and his family overall) would have a lower retirement income. It was also established that the 
transfer would reduce the guaranteed death benefits and spouses pension that Mr Cs 
dependents would receive. For this reason alone the transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in 
Mr Cs best interests.
Financial viability isnt the only consideration when deciding whether to transfer; there might be 
other aspects which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive 
thought about the documented reasons as to why Mr C wanted to transfer below.
Flexibility
It was documented that Mr and Mrs C had debts. These took the form of a personal loan and a 
mortgage on an overseas property. Its not documented that these were causing financial 
difficulty. But the main reason why Mr C wanted to transfer was to repay the loan he had and 
start making inroads into the mortgage on the property.RDL didnt think that he should proceed with the transfer was because these debts were being 
managed at the time. It thought that Mr C should consider other means to repay them first. It 
outlined in the suitability letters the options it thought Mr C had in this respect. And it was noted 
that Mr and Mrs C had some surplus income each month.
Overall, in RDLs own words, there was no overwhelming need for Mr C to make the DB 
transfer so he shouldnt have done so. I agree that this was likely to be the case.
Was Mr C an insistent client.
At the time of the advice there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of 
insistent clients. But there were Conduct of Business (COBS) rules in the regulators Handbook 
which required RDL to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client. In addition, COBS required RDL to provide information that was clear, fair 
and not misleading. So, RDLs recommendation had to be clear and Mr C had to have 
understood the consequences of going against the recommendation.
Ive outlined the material aspects of how the transfer came about above so I wont repeat them 
here. I consider there were possibly some areas where more clarity would have been helpful in 
RDLs process and how it treated Mr C as an insistent client, that is, one who wanted to act 
contrary to the advice given. But I agree that, even if RDL had done everything it shouldve 
done, Mr C would still have gone ahead with the transfer of his pension to the PPP. Ill explain 
why.
It was Mr C who contacted RDL with a view to releasing money from his pension. Following this 
contact Mr C and RDL spoke on the telephone a number of times. RDLs notes to all of these 
calls show that it informed Mr C each time that a transfer was unlikely to be in his best interests. 
And it went on to say that it was not going to recommend the transfer later on.
RDL sent Mr C written advice in September 2007. It said that (Ive reformatted this) Summary - 
Our Advice Based on our above analysis of your individual circumstances, your short term and 
long term objectives: You should: Keep your  (DB Scheme)  intact until the normal 
retirement date.
There was a full explanation of why this was and what the implications of making the transfer 
were in the report. The report then went to note that this had already been explained to Mr C but 
he had indicated that he wanted to proceed in any event. It then went on to say what Mr Cs 
options were if he did want to make the DB transfer.
I think it would have been better if the first written communication about the advice didnt inform 
Mr C that he could make the transfer in any event on an insistent client basis. But I think this 
was balanced out by the telephone calls that had already explained why it wasnt in Mr Cs best 
interest to make the transfer. I think, overall, it was clear that RDLs advice was that the DB 
transfer wasnt in Mr Cs best interests, and why this was.
And RDL said that in response to the advice, that Mr C needed to confirm that he wanted to 
proceed, and it asked that he do this in his own words. Mr C did this, explaining that he had an 
urgent need for funds for a number of reasons. Whilst RDL accepted that Mr C did want, or 
need, the funds it didnt think Mr Cs written letter was clear enough as it didnt show that Mr C 
understood what he was giving up from the DB scheme transfer.
RDL followed this up and asked Mr C for clarification about this in another call. Mr C confirmed 
that he had read and understood the information he had been given in the reports and in the 
earlier telephone calls. And he understood that RDLs advice was to leave his DB scheme intact.
Mr C had clearly thought about the benefits to him of transferring at that point. And in 
correspondence Mr C confirmed he had no savings or other means to obtain the funds he 
needed. RDL did say that Mr C should consider restructuring his finances with the help of a 
debt management organisation or using some of his surplus income to repay his debts, but Mr 
C didnt want to do this.So, I think its reasonable to say that Mr C had made up his mind and he wanted to enact the 
transfer despite RDLs advice being not to do this.
I havent seen any persuasive evidence from the time of sale that this process pressured Mr
C. There was plenty of time between each contact and the transaction took place over a 
number of months. Mr C would need to respond before things would move on a number of 
times.
And I think its reasonable to say the advice was fully explained to Mr C both in the reports and 
in the telephone calls. I dont think I can reasonably say that RDL should have provided more, 
or better, information.
Overall, even though I think RDLs insistent client process could have been fairer, I dont think 
that would have changed the outcome in Mr Cs particular case. I say that because on balance, 
I think even if RDL had made their insistent client process clearer, Mr C would have pursued 
the transfer and insisted on RDL transferring his pension.
RDL, and Mr Cs representative, received my provisional decision. Mr C and his 
representative didnt agree with my provisional decision. Mr Cs representative, said that:
Mr C wouldnt have been able to make a decision without receiving full information 
(such as a critical yield) or advice. The risks of the DB transfer were not made clear.
Mr C doesnt recall speaking to RDL about whether he understood the documents, 
he says the calls were just to confirm safe receipt of the documents. 
The call made after the written declaration would have been to safeguard RDLs 
actions in treating Mr C as an insistent customer, not to clarity things with him. 
If RDL had clearly informed him of his other courses of action, such as taking a loan, 
he would have followed these. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its reasonable to say that Mr Cs representative didnt raise any new points after 
receiving my provisional decision. So, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached before, 
for the same reasons.
Briefly, as I said in my earlier decision, I think the information from the point of sale is clear in 
that RDL advised Mr C to not make the DB transfer and why. Whilst the point of sale 
documentation doesnt show that a critical yield was looked at, it does show other 
information that shows that the DB transfer was not in Mr Cs best interests. Overall, I think 
the documentation from the time of sale informed him of this. 
RDLs records show that there was a significant number of calls. And the written 
documentation refers to these calls and what was discussed in them. It also explains the 
advice in full. I dont think the call made after Mr Cs written statement was just to safeguard 
RDLs actions. The evidence from the time of sale doesnt support this. 
I appreciate that Mr C may not entirely recall what he and RDL spoke about in the telephone 
calls. But they took place around 15 years ago, so this is not entirely surprising. And there 
isnt anything further to support what Mr C has recently said about this. RDLs documentation said that alternative methods of meeting Mr Cs needs were 
discussed, including taking out a loan (amongst other things). I think this is a reasonable 
reflection of what happened at the time and that other alternatives probably were discussed. 
Given all of above, Im still not persuaded to uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman