DRN-3870354
The complaint
Miss K complains about very poor and delayed handling of her claim for damage to her 
home from an escape of water by her home insurer, AXA Insurance UK Plc. References to 
AXA include its agents.
What happened
Miss Ks home suffered an escape of water in February 2021, and she claimed for the 
damage. AXA appointed loss adjusters to manage the claim and an initial surveyor 
assessment was carried out the following month. Miss K said she was told she and her 
family would need to relocate for 5-6 weeks while repair work was ongoing, but she said they 
ended up relocating for 11 months, with the claim lasting 16 months. 
Miss K said that during this time, AXA treated her appallingly and subjected her to mental 
duress on a daily basis. She said she has been accused of lying, attempting insurance fraud 
and her claim was deliberately stalled by handlers who she said discriminated against her. 
Miss K said on two occasions AXA intended to leave her family homeless. Firstly, she was 
asked to pay £2,500 to secure alternative accommodation, and secondly, she had to put a 
post on social media to get AXA to contact her as they were ignoring her calls and emails. 
She also contacted advice organisations to discuss accommodation for homeless people.
Miss K said that her personal possessions, which she had left at her home were ruined 
because AXA didnt safeguard them. She said she was initially told she could claim for 
these, but later told that was not the case as they were ruined before her claim. Miss K 
brought her complaints to AXA and said she had twice asked for its claims handler to be 
removed. She sent AXA photos of ruined possessions, health documentation relating to a 
condition from which she now suffers due to the stress as well as her childs conditions.
In its final response to the complaint, AXA accepted that there were serious shortcomings 
with its handling of her claim and that it had been dealt with very badly. AXA apologised to 
Miss K for causing serious delays and has offered her a total of £1,400 compensation.   
Miss K said AXA failed to take responsibility for the consequences of its poor handling, and 
didnt address her complaint about discrimination, or health issues which she and her family 
suffered for 15 months. She said although the claim handler didnt write anything negative, it 
doesnt mean there wasnt discrimination, and the facts speak for themselves. She said the 
uncertainty of their living arrangements, and nearly being left homeless for such a long time 
has caused her medical conditions to worsen. She said AXA gave no help in obtaining the 
internet for her temporary accommodation. As Miss K wasnt satisfied with AXAs response 
to her complaint, she referred it to our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said AXA hadnt been proactive in 
arranging alternative accommodation and there was a lack of communication throughout. 
But she hadnt seen any evidence of discrimination or ill-will. She said the compensation 
AXA offered was in line with what we would expect in Miss Ks circumstances. 
Miss K disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsman review her complaint. 
She said the investigator had got her facts wrong, and she couldnt trust that her complaint 
had been properly investigated. She said the investigator had wrongly stated there was no 
evidence to suggest Miss K had requested AXAs help in obtaining internet service or help 
with arrangements. And further that the investigator had wrongly stated that AXA shouldnt 
be responsible for the contents at the property, saying that there was no cover in place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at the events and communications associated with Miss Ks claim to see 
if AXA acted in accordance with the policy terms and to see if it treated Miss K fairly, or not.  
The nature of the damage and repairs required to Miss Ks home meant that AXAs agents 
thought that Miss K would need alternative accommodation for about four weeks. When the 
repairs were being assessed and afterwards it was apparent the damage was worse than 
anticipated, mostly due to the incursion of tree roots and so Miss K would need to be away 
from home far longer. Its fair to say that AXA wouldnt have been aware of the extent of the 
claim at the start or the multiple site visits that would be required. But from the point of the 
assessment, the claim was likely to take several months to resolve.
Large escape of water claims are inherently stressful because they involve multiple parties, 
disruption to policyholders and generally take months to resolve. The extent of the damage 
meant that it took much longer to resolve Miss Ks claim due to its complexity and Ive 
considered the effects of this on Miss K. 
Notwithstanding the extent of the damage, I can see that there were significant and 
avoidable delays in AXAs handling of Miss Ks claim. The delays meant that her contractors 
had a reduced amount of time in which to complete the contracted repairs. This caused 
pressure with the scheduled completion date and a great deal of stress to Miss K. 
Miss K suffered from the nature and uncertainty of the short-term arrangements for 
alternative accommodation. She had to chase AXA repeatedly for its payment of the deposit 
on the second property and this caused her unnecessary stress. I dont think AXA made 
enough effort to find long-term alternative accommodation and the moving around caused 
Miss K and her family a great deal of distress and inconvenience. 
During the claim Miss K found her own accommodation, but the internet and other utilities 
werent set up. AXAs agents said this was Miss Ks responsibility and AXA subsequently 
said they were unaware of the problem. Miss K said the investigator was incorrect to say she 
hadnt requested AXA for help with this, as its agents were aware. I have no reason to doubt 
Miss Ks recall about this, particularly as the internet was important for her work, or about the 
inconvenience of travelling back to her home with no heating, water, or other facilities. 
Although there is some justification in AXAs response that it would only have responsibility 
for these things if it has sourced the accommodation, I would have expected AXAs agents to 
provide some assistance to Miss K in these circumstances. 
Miss K accepts that AXA hadnt provided cover for her contents, but thought it was legally 
responsible for the damage which resulted from its wrongful delays and negligence. AXA 
said that the escape of water was directly responsible for the presence of damp in Miss Ks 
home, and I agree with AXA that this has to be considered as the main cause of the damage 
and any gradual causes that followed on from that. I think that AXAs decision not to cover this part of the claim was reasonable. If she hasnt already done so, I would recommend that 
Miss K claims for her damaged contents from her contents insurer.  
Miss K said that she has been discriminated against by AXAs loss adjuster. She hasnt 
provided any evidence of this but says the facts speak from themselves. Although I have 
found that Miss K was provided with very poor service, I havent seen anything to indicate 
she has been discriminated against, and the facts dont tell me otherwise. We are an 
evidence-based assessor of complaints and so in the absence of any evidence of 
discrimination I havent found that this took place.
Having looked closely at the handling of the claim, I can see that it was progressed at a very 
slow pace and Miss K brought this to AXAs attention on several occasions. There were 
delays in communication and payments werent made despite urgent requests. Miss K was 
subjected to avoidable delays and very poor or non-existent communications, and I agree 
with the investigator that this was poor work by AXA and its agents. 
AXAs responsibility was to put arrangements in place for Miss K and her family and manage 
her expectations on timescales. This didnt happen and overall the claim was characterised 
by AXAs lack of management of the parties involved and a lack of momentum required to 
progress it within a reasonable time frame. 
AXA has accepted and apologised for the serious issues it caused with the handling of the 
claim and its agents serious failings with the arrangements for alternative accommodation. 
I was sorry to learn about the adverse impact the delays have had upon Miss K and her 
childrens mental health and wellbeing. I think they have been badly affected by the stress of 
their situation and medical problems appear to have followed on from this. The impact of the 
poor service AXA provided to Miss K has been substantial. AXA said it has paid Miss K £400 
compensation and has offered a further payment of £1,000. I think £1,400 compensation is 
in line with what I would expect to see in the circumstances of Miss Ks complaint and is fair. 
I realise that Miss K will be very disappointed with this outcome to her complaint, but I think 
this outcome is fair and consistent with similar complaints that I have seen. I recommend 
that Miss K contact AXA and accept the offer of compensation. However, if Miss K rejects 
the offer and this decision, she can pursue her complaint by other means if she wishes. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman