DRN-3980926
The complaint
Mr K complains to Gallium Fund Solutions Limited (Gallium) about an investment he 
made in 2017. He says the investment was mis-sold as he wasnt fully informed of the 
risks involved.
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Mr K invested £50,000 into a B&G Plc Five Year Compounding High Yield Bond. Sales of 
this bond were dealt with by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), a separate business from 
Basset & Gold Plc (B&G plc), the issuer of the bond. BG Ltd arranged applications for 
investments in the bond, through a website it operated. And it was responsible for 
advertising/marketing the bond. Potential investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss 
the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 February 2017 
to 28 February 2018.
Mr Ks investment in the bond
Mr K told us that hed been self-employed throughout his working life and in his earlier years, 
he hadnt started a pension or taken any steps towards retirement planning. In 2017, he 
began to think about this more and saw an advert in the media for the B&G bond. Mr K 
recalls speaking to one of BG Ltds representatives and being sent some information. He 
was looking for somewhere to put his money which would provide a decent return without 
being risky and thought the bond would be a good option for him. 
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that 
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day 
lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into administration 
in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mr K 
has not had his invested capital returned to him.
The application process
Mr K doesnt recall much about the application process now, but given the information we 
have received we can see his application was made on 23 February 2017 and appears to 
have been done online. We asked for copies of any call recordings BG Ltd held and were 
provided with some, but most were service and enquiry calls. While some calls were from 
before Mr K made his investment, they covered general points so these recordings have not 
been material in my consideration of this complaint.
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show the 
application journey that Mr K underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed to meet the 
rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on how to test whether the 
investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was certification, where Mr K 
was categorised as an everyday investor. The second was the appropriateness test. 
Galliums response to Mr Ks complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mr Ks complaint. It said Mr K had been given sufficient information 
and risk warnings about the investment, and that it wasnt responsible for the performance of 
B&G. It then made further submissions once Mr Ks complaint was referred to us. I have 
considered the submissions in full. I have also considered what Gallium described as its 
position statement, which sets out general information on the background to complaints 
about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mr Ks complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mr K as a restricted 
investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for him  was 
misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Mr K wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that it shouldnt allow Mr K to invest. For these reasons, both cumulatively 
and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: 
Regardless of label, Mr K was required to confirm that he met the requirements of a 
restricted investor and confirmed that he did. It is not fair or reasonable to conclude 
that the use of the word everyday contributed to Mr K giving an incorrect 
declaration, and it was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration. 
The appropriateness test answers and these confirmations were sufficient for Gallium 
to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and experience of 
the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mr K made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it, and did 
not choose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of the 
concentration risk. So he would have proceeded with the investment regardless.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I 
have taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a 
general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory 
system (PRIN 1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 
(Communications with clients) are relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules 
restricting who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was 
appropriate for the potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 
10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I have considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have 
considered these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for the same reasons. In summary:
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mr K into certifying himself as belonging to 
a category to which he did not belong (a restricted investor) by changing the term 
used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the category as being one 
anyone could fall into. This was not treating Mr K fairly or acting in his best 
interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Mr K, it is unlikely he would 
have certified himself as being a restricted investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bond was not an appropriate investment for Mr K. In the circumstances Mr K would 
either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have 
concluded it should not promote the bond to Mr K. 
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mr Ks complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mr K would either not have proceeded to make the 
investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably 
to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to 
compensate Mr K for his loss.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr K as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not invested in the 
bond.I think Mr K would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given 
Mr K's circumstances and objectives when he invested
.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mr K fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mr K's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
It is also clear that Mr K has been caused some distress and inconvenience by the 
loss of his investment. I do not believe Mr K foresaw such a drastic loss and I 
recognise the considerable worry he will have felt when B&G Plc failed given the 
money was for his retirement. I consider a payment of £350 is fair compensation for 
the upset caused.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
B&G Plc Five 
Year 
Compounding 
High Yield 
BondStill exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr K agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Mr K that he repays to Gallium any amount he may 
receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr K wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr K's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr K would have invested only in a 
fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have obtained with little 
risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ks complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr K in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman