DRN-3520386
The complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc moved his account from one branch to a 
different branch and refused to move it to a branch of his choosing. He also complains about 
how theyve handled his complaint. 
What happened
Mr B says that NatWest moved his current account from one branch to a different branch 
and refused to move it to a branch of his liking. He says this left him with a current account, 
a safe custody box and a deposit account all at different branches. Mr B says that if he were 
to open a new current account, NatWest informed him that he would get no choice at which 
branch it would be held at as NatWest would decide, so his account could be assigned to a 
certain location which he doesnt want it to be at (the same branch they moved his current 
account to). Mr B says he strongly feels that the choice of branch should be the customers 
and not NatWests.
Mr B made a complaint to NatWest. He says he sent them a letter on 11 August 2021, but 
they lost his letter, so they did not start to reply until 17 November 2021. He says he did not 
receive their response dated 19 November 2021 until 20 January 2022, which reduced the 
time he could bring a complaint to this service.
NatWest did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. They said they were unable to see a letter from Mr 
B on their system, so either they did not receive his letter, or it had not uploaded to their 
system correctly, they apologised for the upset that this had caused Mr B.
NatWest said that they apologised for the frustration Mr B felt in relation to his account sort 
code. They said previously, he could have opened an account in a branch, and this wouldve 
allowed him to choose where his account was held, however, this is no longer the case as 
applications are now processed internally and the system generates the sort codes. They 
said there had been no bank error with this as this is a bank decision, but they said they 
understood how he was disappointed with this decision. NatWest said that his sort code 
does not affect his banking experience and that he would be able to visit any NatWest 
branch for his banking needs. Mr B brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. She said account details are no longer tied 
to specific branches as they are centralised on the banks computer systems. So, although 
something material like his safety deposit box will be held in a branch, which is able to 
provide this service, it has no impact on the day-to-day running of his account. The sort 
codes do not affect which branches he can use, or which services he can access.
Our investigator said NatWest had sent her a screenshot of their system showing a search 
for the letter Mr B sent them in August, but this returned no results, so she couldnt prove a 
bank error here. She said that although NatWests letter reached Mr B on 23 January 2022, 
this was still within the six month period to bring his complaint to our service and as Mr B 
had managed to do so, there was no detriment to him. 
Mr B asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said he originally opened his account at a specific branch, therefore, when 
NatWest decided to move it, he shouldve been given a choice of where to move it to, he 
would have been previously able to choose which branch his account was at and this is no 
longer the case, NatWests systems should allow you to select which branch for an account 
to be held at, and while its been said that account details are no longer tied to specific 
branches, this is not really the case as the branch address appears on his cheque book and 
his statements. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the enforcer for 
the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts as an 
informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. So I must be 
clear to Mr B from the outset that Im unable to tell NatWest what branch they should 
allocate him to or to change their systems to allow him to choose what branch his account is 
held at, even if he previously could have chosen what branch his account would be held at, 
as these are commercial decisions for NatWest to make. 
Mr B has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr B has about NatWests business decision to move 
his current account from one branch, to a branch where he doesnt want it to be held, due to 
the original branch closing. He has said that he now has a current account, a safe custody 
box and a deposit account all held at different branches. So I understand why this is 
important to him.
So Ive considered if there is any material impact in how Mr B would be able to use his 
accounts as a result of a change of branch. But Im not persuaded that there would be any 
material impact and Ill explain why. Apart from Mr Bs safe custody box being held in a 
physical location (which Ill move onto later), the current account and deposit account are not 
held in a physical branch location as such. I say this as NatWest have explained that Mr B 
would be able to use these two accounts in the same way at the allocated branches as he 
would be able to at any other branch they have.
So Mr B would not need to use the branch he has been allocated to, in order to carry out any 
day to day transactions he may wish to do so. He should be able to transact in the same way 
as he had previously done at the previous branch - in any branch he chooses to do so. While 
Mr B has noted that the new branch address is on his chequebook and the first page of his 
statement, Im not persuaded this means his accounts are tied to a specific branch. I say this 
as Mr B is not restricted to transacting in only using the branch which is shown on his 
statements or chequebook.
In terms of the safe custody box, this would need to be held at a physical location until either 
Mr B decides he does not wish to store this with NatWest, or NatWest decide they no longer 
want to offer this service. So I cant say this is not restricted to a certain branch. But Mr B 
has confirmed he is happy for the safe custody box to be held in the branch it is - as this is 
where he says he deposited it. Ive considered what Mr B has said about NatWest not responding to his letter he sent them 
in August. Im persuaded that on the balance of probabilities, NatWest did not receive this 
letter. I say this as they have provided a screenshot to this service which shows they did not 
receive a letter from Mr B, so Im persuaded that its likely there has been an error with the 
postal system. I say this as when Mr B sent them an email with the contents of the letter 
from August, they responded in a quick manner, so Im satisfied that its likely they would 
have done so if they had received his letter he sent them in August.
Ive also considered what Mr B has said when he received NatWests final response letter. 
While it would have been frustrating to receive this when he did, Im glad that Mr B was able 
to bring his complaint to this service in time. But I cant hold NatWest responsible for any 
postal delays. I can see they closed the complaint on their system on 22 November 2021, so 
Im persuaded they would have sent out their response before closing the complaint. Ive 
also listened to the call he had with a NatWest complaint handler on 19 November 2021, and 
the call handler explained that the next steps would be to bring his complaint to our service, 
as Mr B said that they had reached an impasse. So Im satisfied that Mr B did know he could 
bring his complaint to our service. 
In summary, Im not persuaded that there is any material impact in how Mr B would be able 
to use his accounts as a result of the change of branch. So it follows I do not require 
NatWest to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman