DRN-2933951
The complaint
Mr A complains that Arval UK Limited unfairly applied damage charges when he returned a 
vehicle to it under a hire agreement.
What happened
Mr A entered into a hire agreement with Arval in December 2016. The agreement was for 
four years and was in respect of a car. At the end of the term Mr A returned the car to Arval. 
He says the car was in excellent condition and, by this stage, hed paid an amount which 
was equal to around 80% of the value of the car. 
Mr A says he was surprised when Arval told him hed have to pay damage charges for what 
he considered to be minor scratches. He thought this was unfair. He says that after four 
years, minor scratches were to be expected. He also thought the amount of the charges was 
excessive. He complained to Arval.
Arval investigated his complaint. It said the damage charges had been correctly applied 
following an inspection of the vehicle by an independent qualified inspector. The damage 
charges had been applied because the damage to the vehicle fell outside of what the British 
Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association (BVRLA) considered to be fair wear and tear. The 
damage charges related to damage to two of the alloy trims and damage to the rear bumper.
Arval acknowledged that it shouldnt have applied a charge for a missing key and agreed to 
deduct this amount from the charges.
Mr A didnt agree. He thought Arval were trying to make extra money at a time when 
consumers were already experiencing financial difficulties. He complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. She said the damage charges had been applied 
in line with the BVRLA Guide which set out accepted industry standards for fair wear and 
tear to vehicles which had been the subject of a hire agreement. She also thought the 
charges were in line with Arvals price matrix and were fair. She didnt think Arval needed to 
do anything further to resolve the complaint.
Mr A didnt agree. He said hed checked the price of replacing the damaged hubcaps and it 
was less than what Arval was charging to repair them. Our investigator considered what 
Mr A had said but she didnt change her view. So, the complaint has been referred to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked firstly at the vehicle inspection report and the photographic evidence provided 
with that report. This shows the following damage:
- Scratches to the rear bumper. The scratches have exposed the underlying primer.
- Gouges (which are more than 50mm of the wheel circumference) to the alloy rims on 
two of the wheels.
Mr A hasnt disputed the findings in the report. He describes the damage as minor scratches 
and he says this would be expected after a four-year lease. 
Id just point out here that Mr A did dispute the charge in respect of the missing key. Arval 
agreed that this was an error and agreed to deduct that item from the charges. That was the 
right thing for it to do and it did that as soon as the error became apparent. I think it acted 
fairly and reasonably when it acknowledged this error and took corrective action. So, I dont 
think it needs to do anything more regarding this point.
It is the case that damage can occur to a vehicle. That is not unexpected  especially over a 
four-year period. 
The BVRLA Fair Wear and Tear Guide (BVRLA Guide) sets out industry wide accepted 
standards that define what is acceptable and what is not acceptable as fair wear and tear 
when a vehicle is returned at the end of a hire agreement. In this case the hire agreement 
made clear that it was these standards which would apply when the vehicle was returned.
So, when Mr A entered into the hire agreement he agreed that at the end of the term Arval 
would inspect the vehicle for damage and it would use the BVRLA Guide as the standard 
against which it would assess what was fair wear and tear. Damage which was assessed 
as fair wear and tear would not be chargeable. But damage which fell outside of those 
standards would be chargeable.
The BVRLA Guide states that surface scratches to the bumper are acceptable. Having 
inspected the photographs of the bumper, Im satisfied that the damage to the bumper was 
more than a surface scratch. The primer is visible. So, under the terms of the hire 
agreement, this damage was subject to an end of contract charge. I think thats fair and 
reasonable given the terms of the agreement and the standard applied under the BVRLA 
Guide.
Ive also looked at the photographic evidence of the damage to the alloys. The BVRLA 
Guide states that scuffs (defined as light scraping of the top surface and not penetrating the 
base material) of up of 50mm of the total wheel circumference are acceptable. The damage 
visible on the two alloys exceeds 50mm and under the BVRLA Guide would not be 
acceptable.
So, Im satisfied that the charges for the bumper and the two alloys was applied fairly.
Ive then considered what Mr A has told us about the amount of the charges. 
Arval has a Car Damage Charge matrix published on its website and there are also details 
about the charges it applies in its Guide to returning an Arval vehicle. Ive looked at the 
matrix and Guide which applied in December 2020 when the car was returned. The charges 
applied here are in line with the information in both of those documents. Arval has also 
included further information in the Guide which seeks to compare its charges. I havent seen 
anything to indicate that the charges it applied here were different to what is published on its 
website or that the charges were excessive or unfair.
Mr A says he couldve replaced the alloys for less than the recharge. He hasnt provided any 
evidence to support that view. But it is the case that if Mr A thought he could carry out 
repairs to the vehicle, at a lesser cost, he could have done that. The BVRLA Guide and the information on Arvals website indicates that repairs could be carried out provided they were 
completed to a professional standard by a repairer who could provide a transferable 
warranty. Mr A didnt arrange to have the repairs carried out himself.
Having considered everything here, Im satisfied on balance that the charges were fairly 
applied and that the amount of the charges were in line with Arvals pricing matrix and were 
fair and reasonable. In these circumstances, I think Arval has acted fairly and reasonably 
and I dont require it to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Arval UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman