DRN-4308979
The complaint
Mrs and Mr L have complained about the information provided on the price of their motor 
insurance by Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited trading as Swinton Insurance 
(Swinton) following their renewal invite being sent.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive not set them out in detail 
here. But in summary, Mrs and Mr L are unhappy with the information provided by Swinton 
when their car insurance renewal was received. They feel theyve been treated poorly by 
Swinton with its customer service falling short of the level they expected and they are upset 
about being given misleading information.
In January 2022, Mrs and Mr Ls car insurance policy was due to renew. After receiving their 
renewal invite, they wanted to understand more about the cost of the policy and why the 
price was increasing by more than £100 compared to the previous year. 
Mrs and Mr L dont think Swinton treated them fairly when it answered their questions about 
this. It initially said the increase in price was the result of the underwriter changing its view of 
the risk. As a result of this information, Mrs and Mr L spoke to the underwriter directly. From 
this they learnt it had actually reduced the cost of the insurance it was providing. 
The cost of the policy had increased because of its commission charges applied to cover the 
costs of Swintons services. Mrs and Mr L wanted some further clarity on the costs they 
could expect to incur for Swintons services in the future but their requests for information 
went unanswered. Mrs and Mr L were left upset with how they were treated and feel they 
were deliberately lied to and brought a complaint about the service they received.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and thought something had gone wrong. She 
explained why she felt it was fair to expect Swinton to recognise the impact of the service it 
provided to Mrs and Mr L. She said it should pay £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
Mrs and Mr L experienced as a result of the service it provided.
Mrs and Mr L accepted the recommended outcome.
Swinton disagreed. It didnt think it had done anything wrong and questioned how the 
premium increase could have an emotional impact. Our investigator clarified that her view 
was not making an award for the emotional impact of the premium increasing, but for the 
poor service and misinformation provided by Swinton when it dealt with the questions about 
the price increase.
Our investigators opinion remained unchanged and as Swinton continued to disagree with 
the outcome, the complaint was passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I know 
Swinton will be disappointed by this, but Ill explain why Ive made this decision. In doing so, 
Ill focus on what I believe to be the crux of this complaint. So while Ive considered 
everything that has been provided, I will only comment on what I believe is relevant to the 
outcome. 
The crux of this complaint is that Mrs and Mr L believe they have been treated poorly when 
they questioned the price increase on their policy. They have not complained about the 
increase in price itself and why this happened as the commission increased from the 
previous years. The complaint is focused on the service they received and how this 
impacted them when they asked for further information.
When Mrs and Mr L first asked Swinton why the price of their insurance had increased they 
were told this was because of the underwriter increasing the cost. Based on this information, 
Mrs and Mr L complained to the underwriter and it sent a final response on the complaint in 
January 2022. This explained the price charged as the core insurance price had not 
increased, it had in fact decreased from the previous year. But the overall price had 
increased because Swinton added commission onto the premium price at renewal when it 
hadnt in the previous year.
Mrs and Mr L have not said they are unhappy with the amount of commission  what they 
are unhappy about is that Swinton didnt provide them clear, fair, and not misleading 
information about the price of their policy when they asked the question. Had this been 
provided, Mrs and Mr L would not have felt the need to complain to the underwriter. I think 
this caused inconvenience that could have arguably been avoided. 
Mrs and Mr L have said they have been distressed by how Swinton handled their requests 
for information. Theyve highlighted how they feel let down and how unhappy they are at 
being given misleading information. I think this is understandable and I am satisfied it has 
failed to treat them fairly when it provided incorrect information about why their premium had 
increased in price and it is fair that it recognises the impact of the avoidable inconvenience 
experienced when they raised a complaint with their underwriter.    
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained above, Swinton should pay Mrs and Mr L £200 for the 
distress and inconvenienced experienced when it failed to provide them clear, fair and not 
misleading information about the price of their insurance policy.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs and Mr LS complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman