DRN-3430423
The complaint
Mr H complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans irresponsibly 
provided him with an unaffordable loan. 
What happened
The main loan details are as follows: 
Date taken Amount Term 
monthsMonthly 
paymentTotal amount repayable
April 2019 £5,000 60 £309.40 £18,564
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr H and Everyday Loans had told us and she 
thought that Everyday Loans shouldnt have provided this loan. So she recommended 
upholding Mr Hs complaint. Everyday Loans disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to 
look at this complaint.
In brief summary, Everyday Loans said that Mr Hs credit file showed no sign of financial 
difficulty and there were no arrears, defaults or county court judgements present within the 
last 12 months. Also, Mr H had said he would use part of the loan to repay other debt and 
after doing this and taking into account the monthly repayments for this loan, Everyday 
Loans affordability calculation at the time showed he had monthly disposable income of 
£452.62. Everyday Loans said it didnt believe this would have indicated that any further 
borrowing would be unsustainable at the time it was approved.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website. Having thought about everything, I agree with the conclusion our adjudicator came 
to. Ill explain why I say this. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Everyday Loans asked Mr H about his income and expenses  including what he spent on 
his credit commitments. It also did its own credit check to understand his credit history and 
find out about his existing credit commitments and it reviewed bank statements provided by 
Mr H. 
Everyday Loans recorded Mr Hs monthly take home pay was around £1,804 which it 
checked against information it saw on his bank statements. Everyday Loans took into 
account nationally available statistics when thinking about Mr Hs likely spending and also 
allowed an extra amount as a buffer to account for any change in circumstances or one-off 
additional expenses. 
Based on this, Everyday Loans affordability assessment showed that Mr H likely needed to 
spend around £1,292 per month which shouldve left him with more than £500 surplus cash 
each month. 
This led Everyday Loans to conclude that the loan would be sustainably affordable for Mr H. 
Like our adjudicator, I think Everyday Loans checks were broadly proportionate. But, despite 
its affordability calculation appearing to show that Mr H should have had enough disposable 
income each month to cover the loan repayments, I think Everyday Loans shouldve realised 
this was unlikely, given the picture painted overall by the other information it had gathered. 
I think Everyday Loans saw that Mr H had a long history of using expensive short-term and 
unsecured loans and, when he applied for this loan, he was already paying at least five other 
providers of payday loans and high cost credit. In total he owed more than £11,000 on loans 
and instalment credit  as well as a further £1,200 or so on active credit cards, which were 
close to the account limits. 
During the 8 month period covered by the credit report, he had been persistently using most 
of his £1,000 overdraft. And, despite significant payments into his account from other lenders 
and his family, Everyday Loans saw from his bank statements that Mr H was still overdrawn 
at the start and end the month..
I think Everyday Loans shouldve realised that it looked like Mr Hs debt had become 
problematic for him and he was over-reliant on credit he couldnt afford without borrowing 
further to pay for it. 
Ive taken carefully into account everything Everyday Loans has said in response to our 
adjudicators assessment about the way it assessed affordability and noted that it 
understood that Mr H would use around £250 out of the loan proceeds to repay another 
outstanding loan. He said the balance would go towards the cost of car repairs.  
But this doesnt affect my view overall. Everyday Loans didnt have control over how Mr H 
used the loan as it paid the loan balance direct to him. And having seen the extent of Mr Hs 
reliance on using credit and the extent of his active credit commitments, I think it shouldve 
been apparent that there was a real risk Mr H would use the loan to meet financial demands 
that he considered to be the most immediate and pressing. 
Even if Mr H had used this loan to repay the loan hed discussed, I dont think Everyday 
Loans had sufficient reason to think this wouldve improved his overall position sufficiently to achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in his financial situation, given his 
reliance on using credit. It looks like the loan he planned to repay had only a single payment 
left  whereas this loan was potentially going to cost Mr H £13,564 in interest over the loan 
term and increase the amount of his monthly repayments for the next five years. And 
Everyday Loans was aware that the bulk of the loan was intended in any event to be spent 
and so it would add to his overall indebtedness. 
I think its also fair to say that, even with the planned debt consolidation, Mr H would still 
need to pay such a significant portion of his income towards credit, Everyday Loans 
shouldve realised that Mr H would likely struggle to repay this loan sustainably over the loan 
term. 
So all the indications were that he would most likely remain in serious financial trouble 
regardless. Thinking about all the information Everyday Loans had gathered, I cant 
reasonably say that it made a fair lending decision based on the information in front of it. 
I dont think Everyday Loans was able to safely conclude that its loan would be sustainably 
affordable for Mr H. I believe that Everyday Loans ought reasonably to have been aware that 
this loan was likely to be detrimental to Mr H and recognised that it shouldnt have provided 
it. So Everyday Loans needs to put things right. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr H to repay the capital amount that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending - but he shouldnt repay any more than this. 
Everyday Loans should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr H received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr H made should be deducted from this amount. 
If this results in Mr H having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Mr H
Whilst its fair that Mr Hs credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, its 
unfair that he should be disadvantaged by the decision to lend a loan that was 
unfairly provided. So Everyday Loans should remove any negative information 
recorded on Mr Hs credit file regarding the loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if 
he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
take the steps I've set out above to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman