DRN-1862285
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that British Gas Services Ltd (BG) twice rescheduled his annual boiler 
service appointment.
What happened
Mr A had HomeCare Four cover with BG, which included his boiler, heating and plumbing. 
Two days before BG was due to attend to complete Mr As annual boiler service, it 
rescheduled to a date seven weeks later. BG said emergencies in the area had taken 
priority. Mr A was unhappy with the change and BG offered a token goodwill payment as an 
apology. Mr A declined it.
Before the rescheduled appointment, Mr A reported a leak from his radiator and asked BG to 
fix it when it completed his boiler service. On the day of the appointment, BG rescheduled 
again to a date four weeks later because of emergencies taking priority. Mr A complained 
because his appointment had already been moved once.
BG said it had made a mistake when booking the appointment and it apologised. BG also 
offered Mr A £40 by way of apology for the inconvenience. He declined and escalated his 
complaint.
BG completed the service and repaired the leak on the second rescheduled appointment, 
which was over two months later than his original appointment.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that BG had acted in line with the 
terms and conditions when rescheduling the first appointment and it had given Mr A two 
days notice. She agreed that there was a shortfall when BG made mistakes scheduling the 
second appointment, but she thought it had made a fair offer in recognition of that. She didnt 
think BG needed to do any more.
Mr A disagreed. He said that BG should have enough resource in place to anticipate 
emergencies and complete the annual boiler checks. He also said that the leak he reported 
couldve caused thousands of pounds of damage, yet BG prioritised other appointments over 
his.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. 
Ill explain.
The facts are not disputed here. BG rescheduled Mr As annual boiler service appointment 
twice. It prioritised emergencies but confirmed the second reschedule was avoidable. BG 
offered Mr A £40 by way of apology, but he didnt think that was enough.
What remains for me to decide is whether BGs offer to Mr A was fair in the circumstances.
BG rescheduled Mr As annual boiler service appointments. The policy terms and conditions 
state that this may happen if BG needs to prioritise other appointments. I would expect BG to 
prioritise emergencies or appointments for vulnerable customers over routine boiler checks, 
so the policy term doesnt seem unfair. BG gave Mr A two days notice for the first change 
but told him on the day of his appointment about the second change. While I can understand 
that getting notice on the day is an inconvenience, the nature of emergencies means that BG 
may not be able to give more notice than that. So, while this wouldve been inconvenient to 
Mr A, I dont think it warrants a goodwill payment of more than £40.
Mr A says the leak he reported before his second appointment was due to take place 
couldve caused significant damage. I understand his point. But Im not aware that it did 
cause damage. He reported a leaking radiator and asked BG to investigate when it attended 
the boiler service appointment. That indicates to me that he didnt feel it was an emergency. 
If it had become worse, he couldve asked BG to prioritise his appointment, but I dont think 
he did. So I dont think BG was wrong to prioritise other emergency appointments over his.
That said, BG confirmed that the second rescheduled appointment was avoidable. It has 
apologised to Mr A and it offered a goodwill payment, which he declined. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that the error caused Mr A any loss. Although I accept it added to his 
frustration, I dont think it warrants an increase in the goodwill payment BG has already 
offered.
Mr A says he had cover so that he could rely on BG when he needed its service, yet it failed 
to deliver. He feels the service wasnt available to him for those months. He also says theres 
no accountability for BG because it can cancel appointments at any time and always claim 
emergencies took priority without proving that was the case. Mr A thinks BG should pay him 
at least £100, which covers the excess he paid and the time without service.
I understand the point hes making but I dont agree. The service was available to him 
because BG serviced his boiler and repaired the leaking radiator within the policy year. So 
the excess and policy premiums are valid charges. BG might not have carried out the work 
as soon as Mr A wouldve liked but it has acted in line with the terms of the policy. I would 
also expect that if Mr As need was considered an emergency, BG wouldve prioritised his 
appointment over a routine appointment for another policyholder. I think thats a fair 
expectation for policies of this nature.
In summary, Im satisfied that BG made a fair offer to Mr A in recognition of the avoidable 
rescheduling error. If he wishes to accept the offer, he will need to contact BG directly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman