DRN-3808827
The complaint
Mr O complains that MBNA Limited (MBNA) irresponsibly granted him credit that he
couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in October 2016. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
MBNA approved a credit card application for Mr O in January 2019. They initially provided a
credit limit of £2,400 but in March 2020 they increased the credit limit to £4,300.
Mr O says they were wrong to provide credit as it wasnt affordable for him.
MBNA disagree. They say that when they approved the credit card application they used a
combination of credit reference agency, computer modelling, and self-reported information to
assess the application and subsequent limit increase. They said that when they approved
the card application, and when they approved the limit increase, Mr Os credit file
demonstrated that he was managing his credit commitments well; there were no County
Court Judgments against him, no arrears on his accounts and no defaults. They said they
estimated that he would have enough disposable income to be able to sustainably pay the
credit they were offering.
Our investigator thought that MBNA shouldnt have provided the limit increase in March 2020
as Mr Os total indebtedness had risen considerably and it was clear he was in a cycle of
debt.
MBNA didnt agree. They noted that Mr O hadnt been using all of his credit limit with them
and didnt seem overly reliant on the card. They thought that Mr Os credit file showed an
ability to repay his debts and to reduce them and they noted that several credit card
commitments had been reduced significantly before the limit increase. MBNA therefore 
asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not currently expecting to uphold this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and
reasonable here.
Account opening.
I think MBNA completed proportionate checks before approving the credit card. They
reviewed Mr Os credit file and gathered some information from him about his income and
circumstances. That information suggested Mr O could afford the credit they were offering.
There was no adverse information on the credit file, Mr Os performance on accounts with
other creditors was good and the income hed declared, and MBNAs estimation of his living
expenses suggested the credit was affordable. I dont think MBNA were therefore wrong to
approve the credit card with the limit they provided.
The limit increase in March 2020
MBNA completed similar checks in March 2020, but I dont think they could be considered
proportionate at that time. Thats because I think there was some adverse information on
Mr Os credit file that suggested he may be experiencing some financial difficulties. His total
indebtedness had risen considerably. Hed taken out three new loans and an additional
credit card and the debt on his credit cards had risen from about £4,100 to over £12,700.
This had significantly increased Mr Os overall indebtedness.
I think MBNA should therefore have done more to assure themselves of Mr Os ability to
sustainably repay the credit they were providing. I think they should have done more to verify
his income and expenditure. I cant say exactly what they would have found if theyd have
asked about that but in the absence of that information I think the best way to think about it is
to review Mr Os bank statements from the time of the credit limit increase.
In August 2018 I asked Mr O to provide bank statements from around the time of the
increase, but he didnt provide them and hasnt responded to further requests made in
September and October of this year. So, I dont think Mr O has given us enough information
to fairly determine what proportionate checks would likely have shown MBNA.
As Mr O hasnt been able to demonstrate that the agreement was unaffordable, I cant
reasonably conclude that MBNA ought to have known he would struggle to make the
repayments. Im therefore not currently persuaded that MBNA acted unfairly in approving the
finance.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O didnt provide any further information, but MBNA did. They noted Id said, there was 
some adverse information on Mr Os credit file that suggested he may be experiencing some 
financial difficulties. They objected to that statement and explained that overall his credit 
file is excellent  the only late payments are on a utility account with British Gas at a linked 
address.... They asked that the statement should not be used in the final decision.
I agree that there werent any adverse credit marks on Mr Os credit file. I was referring to 
the fact that there were signs of some financial difficulties. His total indebtedness had risen 
considerably. Hed taken out three new loans and an additional credit card and the debt on 
his credit cards had risen from about £4,100 to over £12,700. This had significantly 
increased Mr Os overall indebtedness.
I dont think that changes my decision and my provisional decision therefore becomes my 
final decision on this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman