DRN-3868834
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B, represented by their solicitors, complain that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) treated them unfairly by overcharging them on their mortgage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B agreed to an interest only mortgage with NatWest in July 2007 over a 11-year 
term. The mortgage was taken on an initial fixed-interest rate at 6.15% until 31 August 2009. 
In August 2009, Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage moved onto another fixed-interest rate which ran 
until 31 August 2014. After which, the mortgage moved onto NatWests standard variable 
rate (SVR) until the mortgage was redeemed in August 2018 as part of a new mortgage 
application. 
Since Mr and Mrs B took out their mortgage, the Bank of England Base Rate and the SVR 
have operated as follows:
Effective dateBase 
rate SVR Difference
01/07/2007 5.50% 7.69% 2.19%
05/07/2007 5.75%   
01/08/2007  7.94% 2.19%
06/12/2007 5.50%   
01/01/2008  7.69% 2.19%
07/02/2008 5.25%   
01/03/2008  7.44% 2.19%
10/04/2008 5%   
01/05/2008  7.19% 2.19%
08/10/2008 4.50%   
01/11/2008  6.69% 2.19%
06/11/2008 3%   
01/12/2008  5.19% 2.19%
08/01/2009 1.50%   
01/02/2009  4% 2.5%
05/03/2009 0.50%   
05/03/2009  4% 3.5%
04/08/2016 0.25%   
01/10/2016  3.75% 3.5%
02/11/2017 0.50%   
01/12/2017  3.99% 3.49%
02/08/2018 0.75%   
01/09/2018  4.24% 3.49%
On 5 June 2020, Mr and Mrs Bs representative sent a letter of complaint to NatWest on 
Mr and Mrs Bs behalf. The letter set out that Mr and Mrs B sought to claim damages in 
relation to being overcharged interest on their outstanding mortgage balance due to the 
unlawful interest rates and any variations in the interest rates charged by NatWest. 
The letter set out that Mr and Mrs B consider that the mortgage offer issued on 6 July 2007 
contained unfair terms pursuant to the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 
1999 (UTCCR). Elaborating on this point, Mr and Mrs Bs representative argued:
Section four of the offer letter is unfair as the term within did not explain what was 
meant by the Standard Variable Rate, and Mr and Mrs B were misled into believing 
that this rate would vary in accordance with the Bank of England Base Rate, rather 
than at NatWests discretion.
Mr and Mrs B do not accept that the mortgage general terms and conditions, which 
defined the Standard Variable Rate were incorporated into the contract.
It is unfair to expect consumers, such as Mr and Mrs B, to pore over the small print 
to understand the meaning of a key term like the interest rate. 
The meaning of the Standard Variable Rate and particularly the fact that NatWest 
could vary it at its discretion, should have been set out in the mortgage offer. The 
failure to do so, renders the term within section four of the mortgage offer unfair for 
the purposes of UTCCR such that NatWest is unable to rely on it. 
A term included within a contract allowing a lender to vary interest rates entirely at its 
own discretion without providing grounds to do so is unfair. 
The term lacks transparency and Mr and Mrs B do not have an effective right to 
termination due to the presence of an Early Repayment Charge (ERC), as well as 
other costs associated with discharging their mortgage and switching to another 
lender. 
Section 15 of The Supply of Goods and Services Act should be deemed to apply in 
this case. This allows for the consideration of a reasonable rate being applied to 
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage balance rather than NatWests SVR. 
NatWests actions constitute a breach of Principle 6 of the FCA Handbook whereby a 
firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. And a 
breach of MCOB 11.5(1)(b) which requires a firm to treat customers fairly by 
assessing, before deciding to vary a regulated mortgage contract or home purchase 
plan; whether the consumer will be able to repay the sums borrowed and interest.
Mr and Mrs B seek to claim the difference between the amount of interest they paid 
on their mortgage and the amount they would have paid had it been subject to what 
they deem to be a reasonable rate. NatWest issued its final response to the complaint on 16 June 2020. In summary, it said it 
was not going to consider the complaint because it thought Mr and Mrs B hadnt complained 
in time. 
Mr and Mrs Bs representative referred their complaint to our service on 15 October 2020. In 
its referral to our service, it told us that, since changes in their financial circumstances owing 
to the banking crisis of 2008, Mr and Mrs B had not been able to re-mortgage and had been 
trapped paying an unfair interest rate.  
Our investigator issued an assessment explaining the limitations to our jurisdiction, what this 
meant for Mr and Mrs and then went on to set out his findings on the merits of the complaint. 
In summary, he said:
The complaint point that, at the point of sale, Mr and Mrs B were misled into believing 
the SVR would track base rate had not been brought in time, under DISP 2.8.2(R). 
The complaint was raised on 5 June 2020, so the investigator concluded that a 
complaint about all of the interest charging events that took place within six years 
prior to this, had been raised in time. Which would be from 5 June 2014 onward. So, 
he was satisfied that he could consider whether the sums charged from 5 June 2014 
onward were fair and reasonable. 
He noted that DISP 2.8.2(R) has two parts, the second providing for a scenario 
where the consumer seeks to bring a complaint more than six years after the event 
complained of. Specifying such a complaint must be brought within three years from 
the date the consumer became aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, 
that they had cause for complaint. But he thought Mr and Mrs B ought reasonably to 
have been aware they had cause for complaint from June 2009 when they chose to 
take out another fixed rate (given what their representative said they knew at the time 
they took out the mortgage) or, at the very latest, by 2014 when they reverted to the 
SVR. So, he didnt think this gave them any more time. 
The investigator set out that when considering the fairness of the interest rate 
charged from 5 June 2014 onward, he will need to take account of previous 
variations of the interest rate in order to determine whether the rate charged during 
the period he can look at is fair. He will also need to consider whether the variation 
clause is itself an unfair term as a matter of law. He concluded both of these things 
were part of all the circumstances of the case that he is required to consider under 
the DISP rules and are relevant to whether the interest charged from 5 June 2014 
onward is fair and reasonable. 
The investigator clarified that in the event he recommends any redress, he will only 
be able to award for the period that is in scope of this complaint  5 June 2014 
onward. 
NatWest was not required to set out all the terms and conditions of the mortgage 
contract in a single document. There are good reasons why general terms and 
conditions would be in a separate document to an individual consumers offer. 
The mortgage represented a substantial liability and a consumer ought reasonably to 
be treated as if they had read all the information provided with the mortgage offer, 
including the associated terms and conditions. 
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage contract did not commit to track the Bank of England Base 
Rate, they were made sufficiently aware of its terms and that NatWest has sought to 
charge interest in accordance with those terms. 
He didnt think that a court would conclude that the variation terms were unfair. 
Although he accepted it is arguable that the terms could be more transparent, he was satisfied that overall they do not create a significant imbalance between the parties 
contrary to the requirement of good faith, and that a consumer in a hypothetical 
negotiation would have agreed to the term. 
In determining whether, at the time the contract was taken out, there were likely to be 
significant barriers for Mr and Mrs B dissolving the contract, the investigator noted 
that NatWest was only able to rely on the variation terms when there was no ERC. 
So, Mr and Mrs B would not have had to pay a charge to end their contract with 
NatWest should they have chosen to switch to another lender. The investigator 
added that he didnt think switching costs were a significant barrier to exit and instead 
were costs a borrower could incur if they ever sought to switch lender. 
He set out the need to consider what, if any, unfairness Mr and Mrs B experienced 
because of mortgage payments based on changes to the interest rate. And the need 
to consider whether NatWest had exercised the terms fairly. 
He found SVRs to serve a legitimate purpose in permitting lenders to provide for 
future changes and allow borrowers flexibility.   
The investigator was not persuaded NatWest varied the rate unfairly. 
The investigator noted that while the SVR reduced between 2007 and 2009, the 
difference between the SVR and the Bank of England Base Rate increased. He set 
out that this was a time of significant change in the wider market as a result of the 
financial crisis. This impacted on the funding costs of businesses and was reflected 
in changes to a number of lenders interest rates.  
NatWest provided information to show that their cost of funds did not reduce in line 
with Base Rate. 
Following 2009 and until the complaint was made, the SVR Mr and Mrs B paid acted 
in the way they say they thought it would  tracking base rate. 
Overall, he didnt think there was anything to suggest that NatWest has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably, or that Mr and Mrs B have overpaid interest. He also considered 
that the interest rate applied to Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage over the term has remained 
generally in line with the SVRs of other similar lenders across the market. So, he did 
not consider the rate Mr and Mrs B paid to have been an obvious outlier or 
excessive. 
Mr and Mrs Bs representative responded to say it was disappointed in the outcome and 
asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman. In summary it said:
It accepts NatWest was not obligated to track Base Rate but it thinks Mr and Mrs B 
had a legitimate expectation that the SVR would track variations to Base Rate, 
based upon the extensive number of separate variations that took place during the 
initial term of the mortgage, where the margin remained constant. So, it was a 
legitimate expectation based upon established practice. 
Our investigator did not provide any of the reasons NatWest had given for each 
variation or the evidence it had provided to support its position. 
Without having seen the evidence, it doesnt think the reasons or evidence NatWest 
has provided to justify the small increases, could be used to explain or justify the 
larger margin increase.
It appears no specific reason has been given by NatWest to explain the reasons behind the decision on or around 1 February 2009 to reduce the SVR but increase 
the historic 2.19% margin.
It doesnt consider NatWest has provided sufficient information to explain its pricing 
decisions and suggests the information provided to be generic. 
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Bs response and sent a follow up assessment, 
endorsing his earlier opinion. In summary he said:
He was not persuaded that prior variations by NatWest that tracked base rate 
created a legitimate expectation that this is how the SVR would operate for the life of 
the mortgage. He added that these events happened after Mr and Mrs B agreed to 
the mortgage, the mortgage contract was clear in that it was not a tracker product 
and in any event, the SVR then deviated from base rate before Mr and Mrs B 
reverted to it. So, no such expectation, if ever created, could have continued.
While he did consider the expert report provided by Mr and Mrs Bs representative, 
he found the evidence provided by NatWest regarding its own cost of funds and the 
analysis of the Bank of England and the FCA to be more persuasive and applicable 
to the circumstances of this case. 
NatWest hadnt been able to provide as much information as he would have liked. 
But the information it had provided, coupled with his knowledge of the impact of the 
financial crisis on lenders cost of funds more generally plus its SVR remaining fairly 
competitive at the time, all led him to conclude that the variations it made to the SVR 
were fair, proportionate and in line with the terms and conditions Mr and Mrs B 
agreed to. 
The investigator confirmed that he would pass the case to an ombudsman for a final 
decision  inviting both parties to provide any further comments or information they would 
like the ombudsman to consider by 9 December 2022. 
Neither party made any further representations. 
As the complaint could not be resolved informally and as the deadline for the parties to 
respond has now passed, it is now appropriate for me to issue my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I am required by 
DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook to take into account: 
(1) relevant: 
(a) law and regulations; 
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
(c) codes of practice; and 
(2) (where appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.I also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable outcome.
So, although I have read everything that has been supplied to me, I may not address every
point that has been raised.
Having done all that, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I realise this will be 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs B. But I hope the reasons I have set out below will help them to 
understand why I have come to this conclusion.
NatWest previously raised an objection to our service considering Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, 
in short, it thought Mr and Mrs B had brought their complaint too late under the DISP rules. 
In response to NatWests objection, our investigator issued an assessment setting out which 
parts of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint this service had the power to consider (a summary is 
provided above). The approach the investigator took reflects the decision of the High Court 
in an application for judicial review of another ombudsmans decision in a similar case. 
NatWest did not respond to this assessment and has not sought to challenge the findings of 
the investigator on this point. But for completeness I have set out below the parts of this 
complaint I am satisfied I have the power to consider:
This service cannot consider a complaint that Mr and Mrs B were led to believe the 
interest rate would vary in accordance with the Bank of England Base Rate, as that 
complaint has been made too late;
I do have the power to consider a complaint about the amount and fairness of the 
interest Mr and Mrs B have been charged, but only from 5 June 2014 onwards  the 
complaint about charges before that date are out of time; and
In order to consider the fairness of the interest charges that are in time, it is 
necessary for me to take into account the historic changes to NatWests SVR, since 
the SVR charged during the period of time that is in time is the result not only of 
decisions NatWest made during that period, but also the result of decisions it made 
prior to it. This includes considering whether the rate charged derived from earlier 
reliance on an unfair term or for reasons other than those allowed by the contract. 
Thats because each time NatWest charges interest, it must have a fair and lawful 
basis for doing so. 
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has raised many individual complaint points. However, I 
consider the overall complaint to break down into two key points:
Mr and Mrs B had a legitimate expectation that their mortgage would track the Bank 
of England Base Rate once it reverted to the variable rate. As it did not do so, 
NatWest has treated them unfairly. 
Mr and Mrs B have paid an unfairly high rate of interest than compared to what they 
should have paid from 5 June 2014 onwards because in varying the SVR NatWest (i) 
relied on an unfair term and/or (ii) did not vary the SVR for a reason allowed by the 
terms and conditions. 
I will deal with each point in turn. 
Did NatWests actions cause Mr and Mrs B to have a legitimate expectation that their 
mortgage would track the Bank of England Base Rate?
Mr and Mrs Bs representative considers NatWests actions to have given Mr and Mrs B a 
legitimate expectation that their mortgage would track base rate. As I mentioned above, this part of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is out of time. 
To the extent that Mr and Mrs Bs representative is suggesting that this is also a basis to 
complain about the charges that are in time, I disagree with its conclusions. 
The mortgage documentation is clear in that Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage would revert to the 
SVR once their fixed interest period expired and that the SVR could go up as well as down. 
And I havent seen any evidence that persuades me that NatWest was obligated, 
contractually or otherwise, to have its SVR track Base Rate. 
I am aware Mr and Mrs Bs representative argues that, as the mortgage general terms and 
conditions were not included in the mortgage offer letter, they should not form part of the 
mortgage contract. I disagree with this conclusion. 
NatWest was not obligated to set out all the terms and conditions governing its mortgages in 
one document. And while I appreciate this means Mr and Mrs B would need to read more 
than one document to understand and appreciate the terms that governed their mortgage, 
given this was a substantial liability, secured on their principal asset, I think Mr and Mrs B 
ought reasonably to be treated as if they had read all of the information provided. 
Im also not aware of any evidence that can properly be said to show that NatWest acted in a 
way where it committed to keep the margin between base rate and the SVR the same  the 
fact that this margin didnt substantially change over a period of time isnt sufficient to 
indicate that NatWest had agreed to give up its right as set out in the contract, and I think 
that in commercial terms this would have been an odd decision, given the extent to which 
funding costs can change. Finally, I am not aware of any principle of law that, on the facts of 
this case, would obviously commit NatWest to doing so.
So, it follows that I do not uphold this part of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Fairness of interest charged: the interest rate variation terms
I have to consider whether from 5 June 2014 onwards, Mr and Mrs B paid an unfairly high 
rate of interest. While I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs B paid the SVR set by NatWest, and 
that there is no evidence (and no complaint) that NatWest made any calculation errors in 
charging interest, I also think that there are other questions that are potentially relevant to 
whether the interest itself was fairly charged. One of those questions is whether the term 
allowing NatWest to vary the SVR is the sort of term the courts would consider to be unfair 
as a matter of law. 
The law on unfair terms is an important part of consumer protection measures and prevents 
businesses from taking advantage  whether consciously or otherwise  of their customers, 
who have limited bargaining power. If a variation made in reliance on an unfair term 
contributed to the rate charged from 5 June 2014 onwards, then that might be relevant to 
whether interest charged from June 2014 was fair. 
To assess the fairness of the interest rate terms, it is helpful to first set out the relevant terms 
themselves:
The mortgage offer issued in July 2007 set out:
4. Description of this mortgage
This mortgage is provided by National Westminster Home Loans Ltd.The product is a 2Y fixed 6.15% Until 31/08/09 95% LTV  A fixed rate of 6.15% until 
31/08/2009 This mortgage product allows you to borrow 95% of the value of the property. 
The initial interest rate is 6.15%.
Your loan reverts to the National Westminster Home Loan Limiteds Standard Variable Rate, 
currently 7.69% on 01/09/2009

The mortgage offer issued in 2009 explained:
4. Description of this mortgage
This mortgage is provided by National Westminster Home Loans Ltd.
This product is a 5YR FIX 5.04% Until 310814 100% EX LOY  A fixed rate of 5.04% until 
31/8/2014 This mortgage product allows you to borrow 100% of the value of the property. 
The initial interest rate is 5.04%.
Your loan reverts to National Westminster Home Loans Limiteds Standard Variable Rate, 
currently 4.00% on 01/09/2014
The 2006 Standard Mortgage Conditions set out:
Variable ratethe variable rate means the Lenders Mortgage Rate.
Lenders Mortgage Rate means the Lenders standard variable rate for mortgages (which 
is used by the Lender as a basis for setting the rates of interest which are charged to all 
Borrowers who pay interest at a rate which we are free to vary at our discretion).
9. INTEREST 
9.1 The Interest Rate will be a rate which is, or is based on, the Variable Rate, and may be 
varied by the Lender, before or after Release of Loan, except during a period in which the 
Offer of Loan states that the rate of interest is fixed, or tracks a base rate, or during a period 
when interest on a capped rate loan is being charged at the maximum rate of interest 
permitted as shown in the Offer of Loan, for one or more of the following reasons: - 
(a) to reflect a change which has occurred, or which the Lender reasonably expects to occur, 
in bank base rates or interest rates generally;
(b) to reflect a change which has occurred, or which the Lender reasonably expects to occur, 
in the cost of funds the Lender uses for the Loan;
(c) to reflect a change which has occurred, or which the Lender reasonably expects to occur, 
in the interest rates charged by other lenders;
(d) to reflect a change in the law or decision by a court;
(e) to reflect a decision or recommendation by an ombudsman, regulator or similar body.
NatWest has told us it relied on Conditions 9.1 (a) and (b) when it made variations to its 
SVR.
One of the considerations that I am required to take into account is relevant law. I consider 
that the application of the UTCCRs to the relevant terms in this case falls into that category of relevant law. I have therefore considered whether I think that a court would have a 
reasonable basis to conclude that the relevant terms may be unfair.  
The relevant test as to whether a term is unfair is set out at Regulation 5(1), as follows:
A contractual term which has not been individually negotiated shall be regarded as 
unfair if, contrary to the requirement of good faith, it causes a significant imbalance in 
the parties rights and obligations arising under the contract, to the detriment of the 
consumer.
Regulation 6 says:
(1)the unfairness of the contractual term shall be assessed, taking into account 
the nature of the goods and services for which the contract was concluded and by 
referring, at the time of conclusion of the contract, to all the circumstances attending 
the conclusion of the contract on which it is dependent
(2) In so far as it is in plain and intelligible language, the assessment of fairness of a 
term shall not relate:
(a) to the definition of the main subject matter of the contract, or 
(b) to the adequacy of the price or remuneration, as against the goods or 
services supplied in exchange. 
So, it is important to note, that I must consider whether the variation terms were unfair based 
on the situation when Mr and Mrs B took the mortgage out. And whether the terms in 
question go to the main subject matter of the contract or the adequacy of the 
price/remuneration. 
Schedule 2 to the UTCCRs sets out a grey list of indicatively unfair terms and various factors 
relevant to assessing the fairness of a term. The grey list includes:
1. Terms which have the object and effect of  
(j) enabling the seller or supplier to alter the terms of the contract unilaterally without 
a valid reason which is specified in the contract
The grey list of indicatively unfair terms is subject to the qualifications to be found in in
paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 of the UTCCRs. For example, paragraph 2(b) of Schedule
2 of the UTCCRs identifies that the indication of unfairness under paragraph 1(j) is
without hindrance to terms under which a supplier of financial services reserves the
right to:
change a rate of interest payable without notice where there is a valid reason 
(provided the supplier informs the consumer at the earliest opportunity and the 
consumer is free to dissolve the contract immediately);
alter unilaterally the conditions of a contract of indeterminate duration (provided that 
he is required to inform the consumer with reasonable notice and that the consumer 
is free to dissolve the contract).
As a strict matter of law, if the relevant clauses in this case are unfair under the UTCCRs, 
they would not be binding on Mr and Mrs B (Regulation 8 UTCCR). And NatWest would not 
have been permitted under the terms and conditions to vary the SVR in the way that it did.In considering these matters, it is relevant to note that the Court of Justice of the European 
Union (CJEU), having identified that ultimately the fairness of a term was a matter for the 
national court to decide, has indicated what national courts should take into account when 
making that decision:
in Invitel, (C-472/10), the court concluded that a price variation clause in a contract is 
not a core term. Identifying that a price variation clause was instead a term relating 
to a mechanism for amending the prices of the services provided to the consumer. 
in RWE, (C/92/11), the court emphasised that, for unilateral price variation clauses 
(falling within paragraphs 1(j) or 1(l)) to be fair, they must specify the reasons and 
methodology for the price variation so that the consumer can foresee, on the basis of 
clear, intelligible criteria, the alterations that may be made to those charges. In 
addition, the CJEU was concerned that the customer is provided with meaningful 
criteria by which they can verify, and if necessary, challenge, any proposed variation 
to the rate. The CJEU also placed importance on whether the right to exit a contract 
in the event of a unilateral price variation can practically be exercised by the 
consumer at the time, having regard to the circumstances of the market as it exists at 
the time.
in Kasler, (C-26/13), the CJEU identified that, when assessing the fairness of a 
unilateral variation clause  and the meaning of plain intelligible language, national 
courts ought to consider whether: a) the mechanism expressed in the reasons for the 
variation is transparent; such that b) it would enable a consumer to foresee and 
predict the economic consequences for him or her.
In Matei (C-143/13) the CJEU referred to the loan agreement needing to set out 
transparently the reasons for and the particularities of the mechanism for altering 
the interest rate and the relationship between that mechanism and the other terms 
relating to the lenders renumeration, so that the consumer can foresee, on the basis 
of clear, intelligible criteria, the economic consequences for him which derive from it. 
The leading UK judgement on the UTCCR is the 2015 Supreme Court case ParkingEye v 
Beavis. In this case the Court said that:
The test for establishing a significant imbalance (Regulation 5(1)) includes, but is not 
limited to, asking whether the terms of agreement deprive the consumer of an 
advantage which they would enjoy under national law in the absence of the 
contractual provision;
The question of whether a term is contrary to the requirements of good faith depends 
on an objective hypothetical negotiation, asking whether an informed consumer 
would have agreed to the term in question during individual contract negotiations. 
This should take into account a wider circumstantial review, such as the relationship 
with other relevant contractual terms; and 
Consideration should be given to the nature of the goods or services supplied, 
including the significance, purpose and effect of the term in question. 
FCA guidance (FG18/07) on unfair terms in consumer contracts is also of relevance. This 
paper sets out that The fairness assessment is a holistic assessment and these two 
elements may overlap in the way they apply to any particular set of facts and that the 
applicable law recognises the importance of striking a fair balance between the legitimate 
interests of both the supplier and consumer. The guidance also provides an overview of factors relevant to determining whether a variation term is fair. At paragraphs 66 and 67 the 
guidance states that firms should consider the consumers freedom to exit the contract if 
they do not accept the variation, and how they can actually do so. This should include the 
financial and practical barriers which may prevent them from doing so within any advance 
notice or reasonable timeframe. 
Application to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint
Having considered the above, I am satisfied I need to address the following in deciding 
whether the variation clause was unfair: 
Whether the term is a core term 
Whether the term creates a significant imbalance in the parties rights and obligations 
to the consumers detriment contrary to the requirement of good faith.
The decision whether the term is unfair should be made in the light of what sort of contract is 
in issue and what the contract is about, as well as what the other terms say and all the 
circumstances that existed when the term was agreed. Assessing whether a term is unfair 
involves winding the clock back to the date the term was agreed, and then standing back to 
consider the term in its full context, both within the contract and in al the surrounding 
circumstances. 
- Is the relevant term a core term?
The terms in question relate to the mechanism for amending the price of the services 
provided, not the price itself. So, I am satisfied they are ancillary terms whose fairness can 
be assessed under the applicable fair terms legislation. 
- Do the terms create a significant imbalance contrary to the requirements of good 
faith?
As set out above, one of the considerations when determining if the terms create a 
significant imbalance is whether the terms of the agreement deprive the consumer of an 
advantage which they would enjoy under national law if the term was not there. 
I am not persuaded that the interest rate variation clause applicable to Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgage contract does this. At a general level, such clauses have a legitimate purpose and 
are common in financial services consumer contracts. Particularly those of long or 
indeterminate duration, such as mortgage agreements. A fair variation term can benefit both 
consumers and lenders. Providing flexibility and a wider choice to consumers and enabling 
firms to provide competitively priced products, knowing they can vary the interest rates they 
charge to reflect changes in circumstances, particularly in their own costs of funding... 1
A reversion rate also permits lenders to provide for future changes that justify increases in 
the rate, and a lenders own costs of funds and things such as changing regulatory 
requirements are by nature difficult to foresee. So, Im satisfied that, if the agreement itself 
didnt include a rate variation clause, its reasonable to assume that national law would 
provide a mechanism for allowing a lender to vary the rate for legitimate reasons. And I think 
the average consumer could reasonably be assumed to accept this and agree to it in 
hypothetical negotiations. 
In addition, when considering whether there was a significant barrier to exit, it is important to 
note that there was no ERC applicable to Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage at the point it reverted to 
1 FCA Guidance (FG18/07 Paragraph 34)the SVR on 1 September 2014. So, if NatWest had exercised its rights as set by the 
variation term, and Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with that decision, they were free under the 
contract to transfer their mortgage to another lender should they have wished without having 
to pay this charge. 
While Mr and Mrs Bs representative has said that other costs impacted on their ability to 
redeem the mortgage such as switching costs, Im not persuaded these are the sort of 
significant barriers that the CJEU and FCA had in mind when determining whether a 
variation clause is unfair. Mr and Mrs B would incur these costs if ever they sought to switch 
lender. 
So, I dont think the variation terms would be considered unfair simply because at a general 
level there would be a cost to a consumer from moving elsewhere. 
Overall, having considered the relevant regulations and caselaw, I think its likely that a court 
would conclude that the costs of funds variation term was not unfair and would not fall within 
the Schedule 2 grey list Applying the law as it was at the time the mortgage was taken out, I 
am satisfied that overall the term does not create a significant imbalance between the parties 
contrary to the requirement of good faith. And I am not satisfied that there were foreseeable 
barriers to exit. I also think that a consumer in a hypothetical negotiation - understanding that 
over the course of an agreement as long as a mortgage, a lenders costs might change - 
would have agreed to the term.
Even if Im wrong about how a court may view the relevant terms, I think its important to be 
clear that whatever the answer to this question, the central issue I need to decide is whether 
there has been any unfairness to Mr and Mrs B from 5 June 2014 onwards. The fairness of 
the underlying variation clause will not of itself properly answer that question.
Our service is required to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. That 
includes, but is not limited to, relevant law. So, while Ive taken account of the relevant law 
regarding unfair contract terms, Ive also thought more broadly about whether, and the 
extent to which, the way in which the terms have been used has resulted in unfair treatment 
for Mr and Mrs B. I think that is the ultimate question I need to answer in deciding whether to 
uphold this case. 
Has NatWest exercised the terms fairly?
In answering this question, I am doing so in the context that this complaint only concerns the 
fairness of interest charged to Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage since 5 June 2014. All interest 
charging events before that are out of time because Mr and Mrs B did not refer their 
complaint in time. 
However, in order to consider the fairness of the interest Mr and Mrs B were charged during 
the period that is in time, its necessary for me to consider historic changes to NatWests 
SVR, since the SVR charged during the period of time that is in time is the result not only of 
decisions NatWest made during that period, but also the result of decisions it made prior to 
it. 
Im satisfied that each time NatWest made a decision to change the SVR, the SVR remained 
at that revised level until it made a further decision to change it  from the starting point of 
the level resulting from the previous variation. Therefore, the SVR charged from 5 June 2014 
is the sum of the parts of the history that went before. And issues impacting on the fairness 
or lawfulness of those parts might have an impact on the fairness of the SVR charged from 
June 2014. Having established that I need to look at the SVR both before and after June 2014, and 
having considered all the available evidence, I am not persuaded that anything NatWest has 
done in varying the rate has led to unfairness from June 2014 onwards. I have set out why 
below.
NatWest has not been able to provide extensive information for the period before 2009. So, 
it is possible that there is evidence relevant to its decision making at that time that is no 
longer in existence. While this is not surprising given that the events in question took place 
over thirteen years ago, it is a relevant consideration, and Ive also taken into account the 
difficulties of reviewing a complex decision so long after the events. 
While this limits the depths to which I can assess NatWests decisions to, or not to, vary its 
SVR prior to 2009, it has been able to give us extracts of information, relevant to that period. 
I have looked at that alongside what I understand about what was happening to the wider 
market at the time, and I have consulted analysis from other sources such as the Bank of 
England and the FCA.     
For reasons of commercial confidentiality, I havent set out in detail the evidence NatWest 
has been able to provide in full or provided copies of it to Mr and Mrs B. Our rules allow me 
to accept information in confidence, so that only a description of it is disclosed, where I 
consider it appropriate to do so. In this case, I do consider it appropriate to accept the 
information and evidence NatWest has provided in confidence, subject to the summary of it I 
have set out in this decision. 
Between July 2007 (when Mr and Mrs B took out their mortgage) and September 2014 when 
their second fixed interest period ended, NatWests SVR had mirrored all changes to base 
rate bar two. And while the SVR still reduced during this time, it didnt reduce by the same 
proportion as the reduction in the base rate. Therefore, the difference between the Bank of 
England Base Rate and the SVR increased from 2.19% to 3.5%. 
Despite this increase in margin, the SVR Mr and Mrs B were paying when their mortgage 
reverted in 2014 was still lower than what it was when they agreed to the mortgage in 2007 
and it was in line, if not lower, than the market average for the time. 
Ive already set out that this was not a tracker mortgage, so NatWest was not contractually 
obligated to track the base rate. Nor is it the case that Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage had a cap 
preventing NatWests SVR from increasing beyond a certain margin above base rate. So, 
there was nothing in the contract that expressly prohibited NatWest from setting the SVR at 
a level whereby the margin between the SVR and base rate would change. But that doesnt 
mean that NatWest could set the SVR at whatever level it chose. As discussed above, the 
term enabling NatWest to vary the SVR itself has to be fair (to prevent businesses taking 
advantage of customers), and NatWest had to ensure that in varying the SVR it only did so 
for one of the reasons set out in the contract.  
NatWest has told us it relied on the below terms to vary the SVR at this time: 
9. INTEREST 
9.1 The Interest Rate will be a rate which is, or is based on, the Variable Rate, and may be 
varied by the Lender, before or after Release of Loan, except during a period in which the 
Offer of Loan states that the rate of interest is fixed, or tracks a base rate, or during a period 
when interest on a capped rate loan is being charged at the maximum rate of interest 
permitted as shown in the Offer of Loan, for one or more of the following reasons: - 
(a) to reflect a change which has occurred, or which the Lender reasonably expects to occur, in bank base rates or interest rates generally;
(b) to reflect a change which has occurred, or which the Lender reasonably expects to occur, 
in the cost of funds the Lender uses for the Loan;

To evidence its decisions at the time and reliance on the above terms, NatWest has told us 
that despite a reduction in the Bank of England Base Rate, its total group funding costs 
increased considerably over the years 2008-2009.  Its annual reports setting out the notable 
increases and citing this to be primarily due to higher cost of funds including those relating to 
the Bank of England Special Liquidity Scheme. It has also told us that its Net Interest Margin 
(NIM) reduced over this time, reflecting increased funding and liquidity costs. Those 
funding costs increased again in 2009 leading to correlating drop in its NIM, reflecting the 
higher funding costs it continued to experience and the need to balance its mortgage book 
with rates offered to its savers. As such, it has said it was not able to pass on the full 
reductions in base rate to its SVR customers. 
At this time, the mortgage market was going through a period of significant change as a 
result of the global financial crisis. This impacted the funding costs of businesses, including 
NatWest, and was reflected in changes to a number of lenders interest rates charged across 
the market at the time. This was clear at the time and has been the subject of analysis by 
both the Bank of England2 and the FCA3 since. Whilst the base rate did reduce significantly 
during this period, the cost to lenders of funding their businesses changed, as did their 
prudential requirements. These were made up of several factors that are not directly linked 
to base rate. With this in mind, and in conjunction with the evidence NatWest has been able 
to provide, I am satisfied it had legitimate reasons to vary its SVR in the way that it did. 
While the evidence provided by both parties is limited, I have not seen any evidence to 
suggest the changes NatWest made were arbitrary, excessive, or unfair. Rather, the 
evidence Ive seen satisfies me that NatWest acted in line with its terms and conditions to 
protect its legitimate interests while balancing its obligation to treat Mr and Mrs B fairly. And 
Im further satisfied that, albeit limited, the evidence NatWest has been able to provide for 
this period is corroborated by evidence of wider market conditions at the time. 
While I note and have considered in full the expert reports provided by Mr and Mrs Bs 
representative, I am not persuaded they outweigh the business specific evidence provided 
by NatWest on the impact of the financial crisis on its own cost of funding. In addition, as I 
have said above, I have considered other sources such as the Bank of England that lead me 
to a different conclusion from Mr and Mrs Bs representative.
So even if I were to conclude that the relevant terms were unfair pursuant to UTCCR, I am 
not persuaded that NatWest operated them in an unfair manner when setting and varying 
the interest rate that applied to Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage. That being the case, I dont think 
there is any basis to say that they somehow contributed to Mr and Mrs B being charged an 
unfairly high rate of interest on their mortgage during the period I can consider, and Ive seen 
no evidence to say that the interest they were charged during that period was unfair for any 
other reason. 
2 Quarterly Bulletin, Q4 2014, Bank of England  Bank funding costs: what are they, what 
determines them and why do they matter? 
3 May 2018 Guidance Consultation GC18/2 Fairness of Variation terms in financial services 
consumer contracts under the Consumer Rights Act paragraphs 2.8 to 2.10I have also considered the representatives point that NatWest has breached Principle 6 of 
the FCA Handbook and MCOB 11.5(1)(b). Having done so, and for much the same reasons 
set out above, Im not persuaded it has. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint and I make no award against 
National Westminster Bank Plc .
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Lucy Wilson
Ombudsman