DRN-3185109
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the quality of repair work completed when Gresham Insurance 
Company Limited (GIC) handled his claim for fire damage under his buildings insurance 
policy. Any reference to GICs actions includes those of any of its appointed contractors.
What happened
Mr As home suffered fire damage when vehicles parked behind his house were the subject 
of arson. He claimed under his buildings policy and GIC appointed a claims manager and 
building contractor to arrange repairs.
During the work, Mr A complained to GIC about the quality of repairs. He said, amongst 
other things, GIC left unfinished repairs, used incompetent contractors, and caused further 
damage. GIC offered a payment for the additional damage Mr A said it caused to the door 
but its visit to assess the repairs was cut short due to a breakdown in the relationship. A 
further visit couldnt be agreed between them.
GIC told Mr A it couldnt do any more unless it was given the chance to see evidence of the 
repairs he was unhappy with.
Our investigator concluded that GIC had made a reasonable offer to assess the repairs. Until 
it received evidence of the repairs Mr A remained unhappy with, our investigator didnt think 
there was any more GIC should do.
Mr A didnt agree. He said the information GIC provided to our service about the visit was 
false and Mr A provided more evidence to support his complaint. He also repeated his 
concerns that none of the contractors were qualified surveyors. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I understand Mr A will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill 
explain.
Firstly, Id like to reassure Mr A that Ive looked at all the evidence provided by both him and 
GIC, including the further photos and emails he provided after our investigators report. Ive 
also listened to the recordings of calls with our service. I know he was concerned that I 
wouldnt see it all.
Theres a lot of information but I wont comment on everything, and our rules dont require 
me to. Instead, Ive considered the complaint as a whole and Ill focus on the key issues.
Quality of repairs
The first issue is that Mr A doesnt think GICs repairs were completed properly. In such 
circumstances, Id expect GIC to visit Mr A to look into his concerns. I can see it did just that. 
As I understand it, the purpose of the visit was for GIC to review the quality of the works 
completed by its contractors and to record any outstanding work. That, to me, sounds like a 
snagging list that any homeowner might complete with a builders representative after work 
is completed. Unfortunately, as both parties are aware, the circumstances of the visit 
resulted in it being cut short and a further visit hasnt been completed. Im not going to 
address the disagreement over the visit, simply because there is no evidence to support 
either partys allegations, although theres no dispute that the relationship broke down. 
Mr A provided a lot of further information for me to consider in support of his complaint about 
the quality of the work. However, its not for me to determine whether the work was of 
reasonable quality. My role is to decide whether GIC treated Mr A fairly when he complained 
about the standard of work. GIC offered further visits to assess the repairs but couldnt reach 
an agreement with Mr A about who would attend or when. GICs final position on this matter 
was that it would look into his concerns once it could assess the repairs Mr A remained 
unhappy with. 
Page 10 of the policy booklet says:
To help us settle your claim
You are responsible for proving any losswe may ask you to provide receipts, 
valuations, photographsand any other relevant information, documents and assistance 
we may require to resolve your claim.
Our rights
c. You agree to give us all the relevant information, documents and assistance we require 
to enable any claim to be validated so that we can achieve a settlement or pursue a 
recovery.
In line with the policy, I can see why GIC couldnt progress Mr As complaint until it had 
evidence to work with, so I think its response was reasonable. Im not saying the repairs are 
or arent of an appropriate quality  Im simply saying that GIC made a fair offer to address 
Mr As concerns. So, until GIC has the opportunity to assess the quality of repairs, or it 
receives evidence from Mr A, Im satisfied that theres nothing more it needs to do.
Competence and qualifications
Mr A doesnt think the contractors GIC used were competent or qualified. Looking at the 
questions he asked, and the claim information provided, I havent seen anything to suggest 
GIC misled Mr A about its contractors. It confirmed to him that the contractors it used are 
vetted for competency/qualification and offer the relevant guarantees. It seems that Mr A is 
mainly concerned with the fact that the claims manager and building contractor werent 
qualified surveyors and couldnt have assessed the repairs.  However, GIC doesnt appear 
to have claimed that they were, and Mr A hasnt provided evidence to show that they needed 
to be surveyors. Providing GIC understood what Mr A thought was of poor quality, it 
wouldve been responsible for ensuring the appropriate contractors dealt with any remedial 
action needed. I cant fairly say GIC has done anything wrong by using the contractors it did 
to listen to Mr As concerns about the repairs. False statements
Mr A complained that all parties involved in this claim have made false statements, some of 
which relate to the visit which was cut short. As Ive said, I wont be looking into the detail of 
the visit, and I cant reasonably say GIC made false statements where it has offered an 
opinion or account of events. However, Ive considered the work schedules which Mr A 
thinks GIC tampered with. I can see it issued several work schedules and amended them to 
reflect any changes in the repairs required. I havent seen any evidence to support Mr As 
view that GIC tampered with the documents such as to mislead. In the absence of any clear 
evidence, I see no reason to require any action of GIC in respect of this issue.
In summary, I can understand Mr As frustration that his property isnt up to the standard 
hed expected. But his claim has become protracted and I cant reasonably say that GIC 
caused the delays or that it failed to act appropriately in response to Mr As concerns. After 
the failed visit GIC offered to visit again to inspect the repairs. Had it not done so, that is 
what Id have asked it to do. So, in the circumstances, theres nothing more to ask of GIC.
To be clear, my decision not to uphold Mr As complaint isnt about the suitability of repairs. It 
means I dont think the evidence shows GIC did anything wrong when he complained to it 
about the repair quality.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman