DRN-3251942
The complaint
Ms H complains that, in 2010, Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a 
packaged bank account. 
What happened
Ms H had had a bank account with Bank of Scotland since 2005. In July 2010, the account 
was changed to an Ultimate Reward Classic Account (URCA). This was a packaged bank 
account which cost £12.50 per month and gave a package of banking and insurance 
benefits. For arranged overdrafts up to £300 there was no fee  whereas, without the URCA, 
the charge would have been £1 for each day overdrawn. The account also provided free 
travel insurance, car breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance, and Home Emergency 
Cover. 
Ms H says that, in 2010, she:
rang to complain (again) about charges/fees on my current account and asked 
(again) if I could have an arranged overdraft on my current account. I was told there 
wasnt an overdraft facility and the ultimate reward account was the only account to 
get an overdraft. There was no mention of the Rewards.
She has also said the bank told her, this will be a much better account for you, it comes with 
a £300 overdraft. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Ms H didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive borne in mind that this happened about twelve years ago, and it wouldnt be 
surprising if someone didnt remember all the detail of conversations from that long ago. 
So it might not be fair to rely just on what they now remember. 
According to the records that Bank of Scotland holds for Ms H, she did in fact have an 
agreed overdraft up £100 before she switched to the URCA in July 2010. This was from 
December 2009. 
This meant she could go overdrawn up to £100. But, just because it was agreed by the 
bank, it didnt mean that it was free. Because she still had an ordinary account at that 
time, the bank charged her £1 for every day she used the overdraft at all. And, before 
December 2009, when she went overdrawn she was charged at a much higher rate  this 
is because it would have been an unauthorised overdraft. 
Banks usually charge for using an overdraft even if it has been agreed  often this is as 
an interest charge; but, at the time, Bank of Scotland instead charged a daily fee for 
agreed overdrafts. 
When Ms H changed to the URCA in July 2010, the bank also agreed to increase her 
overdraft limit to £300.
Between December 2009 and July 2010, when the URCA started, Ms H was charged 
quite a few of these daily fees for using the overdraft. From May to July 2010, this was 
between £13 and £24 each month. 
So, if the bank did tell Ms H she would reduce overdraft charges with an URCA account, 
this would seem to have been true at the time. 
I dont think Bank of Scotland recommended the URCA as being particularly suited to 
Ms Hs circumstances  though even if it had, the potential savings in overdraft fees would 
probably have made it an appropriate recommendation. But Bank of Scotland did have to 
give Ms H enough information, so she could make an informed choice. 
I do think Bank of Scotland probably explained the overdraft fee benefits  as this seems 
the most likely reason Ms H changed her account. 
Ms H says the bank didnt mention the insurance benefits. And shes sent evidence to 
suggest she didnt have much need for these. However, even if I decided it hadnt 
explained the other benefits properly, I dont see that it would have affected her decision 
to take the URCA. The insurance benefits were still potentially useful to her. But, more 
importantly, the overdraft fee benefits are likely to have made the account seem 
worthwhile regardless. 
Overall, I dont think the PBA was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman