DRN-3950089
The complaint
Mrs H complains about Nationwide Building Society not notifying her of a change of interest 
rate on her Individual Savings Account (ISA)
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After the maturity of a previous account Mrs H reinvested in a 1 year 3.25% fixed rate ISA. 
This rate was applicable at that time so Nationwide set up the ISA as they shouldve done. 
The product has a 14 day cooling off period where changes can be made if requested. 
During this time the rate for 1 year ISAs increased to 4%. Mrs H didnt become aware of this 
change until after the cooling off period as she had opted out of marketing emails. And 
Nationwide didnt agree to increase the rate on her account as it was too late.
Mrs H said other customers were treated differently and that Nationwide agreed to increase 
rates on some other accounts. I cant say why Nationwide might have applied discretion in 
those cases or perhaps they did so as a gesture of goodwill. Its equally possible the date of 
account opening was different. What Im looking at here is how Nationwide treated Mrs H. 
Nationwide say they wouldve changed the rate had Mrs H contacted them, but that didnt 
happen within the cooling off period. I also note that had the interest rate dropped then 
Nationwide wouldve honoured the rate at the time the account was opened. 
I think its important to say that its not necessary for a business to notify existing customers 
of changes it makes to products available to new customers. Here Mrs H applied for a fixed 
rate account at 3.25% and that is what was set up. In these circumstances any changes to 
rates for accounts set up at later dates would have no effect on accounts already opened. 
Having looked at what happened Im satisfied Nationwide treated Mrs H fairly and 
reasonably. The ISA was set up with the applicable interest rate at the date it was opened.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman
