DRN-4393373
The complaint
Mr C complains that the loan he had from Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) was unaffordable to him.
What happened
Mr C had one loan from Everyday Loans in May 2021 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment Due Repaid
1  19 May 2021 £1,000 18m £94.26 30 Nov 2022 On time
Mr C says that he got into further debt as a result of the loan being unaffordable and ended 
up in financial hardship.
Everyday Loans says Mr C said the loan was for car repairs. It says it reviewed Mr Cs bank 
statements and a payslip and carried out a credit search. Everyday Loans adds that Mr C 
said he lived with his parents and paid no rent and it calculated he had a monthly disposable 
income of £197.65 after the loan repayment. It says it believed the checks were 
proportionate and the repayments were sustainable.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She said the evidence she 
had seen showed Mr C was supplementing his income with high cost loans and that he had 
insufficient disposable income to sustainably make the repayments.  She said that Everyday 
Loans should refund all the interest and charges as well as removing any associated 
negative information recorded on Mr Cs credit file.
Everyday Loans responded to say that the bank statements showed Mr C used the short-
term loans for car expenses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
Bearing this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Cs case, I have considered the following 
questions:
Did Everyday Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Cs loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Everyday Loans make a fair lending decision?
Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Everyday Loans carried out the following checks for the loans:
Checked and verified Mr Cs income and employment;
Checked and verified Mr Cs housing costs;
Reviewed Mr Cs credit file and identified existing credit commitments;
Reviewed Mr Cs recent bank statements.
Im satisfied these checks were reasonable and proportionate for the loan.
As Im satisfied that Everyday Loans carried out proportionate checks, I have now 
considered what this information showed:
Mr C said the purpose of the loan was for car repairs;
His verified income averaged £1,354 over the previous two months;
He had no housing costs;
Mr Cs credit file showed:
oThree loans with a combined balance of £12,967 and total monthly 
repayments of £349;
oA credit card with a balance of £1,548 and a limit of £1,550;
Everyday Loans used industry standard statistical data (ONS) to estimate Mr Cs 
monthly living expenses to be £525, which appears to be roughly in line with what is 
shown on his bank statements;
Mr C took out five short-term loans with four lenders, totalling over £850, in the month 
prior to the lending
oAlthough he appears to have repaid one of them by 1 May 2021, he still had 
over £600, without interest, outstanding when he applied to Everyday Loans;
Mr C also had two direct debits returned in April 2021.
I acknowledge that Mr C had made a car purchase in late March 2021 and that resulted in 
him needing to pay what appears to be a deposit of £500, along with monthly hire purchase, 
insurance and tax. This seems to have left him unable to afford his regular expenditure in 
April, resulting in the short-term borrowing. However, when he applied to borrow £1,000 for 
car repairs, I consider Everyday Loans should have seen he could not afford the repayments 
given he had over £600 of short-term lending outstanding.
In summary, Im satisfied there were clear signs that Mr C was already struggling financially 
 the short-term lending, the returned direct debits and the credit card at its limit are all 
indicators  and the available information showed the lending was unsustainable.
So, I dont find Everyday Loans made a fair lending decision, although I dont consider it 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr C received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Mr C made should be deducted from this amount;
 If this results in Mr C having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement);*
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Cs credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he 
asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman