DRN-2874941
The complaint
Mr M complains that Complete Cover Group Ltd (CCG) mis-sold him a motor insurance 
policy.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr M says he wasnt told that his policy didnt cover him against the theft or loss of 
his personal belongings from his vehicle. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied CCG 
sold the policy to him on a non-advised basis, as Ive seen nothing to suggest that 
they personally recommended the policy to him. This means CCG didnt have to 
ensure it was suitable for Mr M, but they were under an obligation to provide enough 
clear, fair, and not misleading information such that he could make an informed 
choice about whether the policy was right for him. In practice, this means that any 
significant limitations of cover or unusual terms and conditions must be highlighted 
within the policy documentation.
Mr M was sent renewal documentation in July 2017, at which point CCG had sourced 
a cheaper policy with an alternative insurer. The renewal documentation set out a 
table highlighting any differences or changes in cover. This stated that gadget cover 
was not applicable (which was the same basis of cover as the policy with the 
previous underwriter as well). So, Im satisfied this made it clear at the very least that 
personal belongings in the form of gadgets would not be covered under the policy. 
The policy documentation also states that the underwriter would not be liable for the 
Cost of replacing personal belongings or any detachable mobile phone or satellite 
navigation equipment or any nonstandard equipment in your car including iPods. 
CCG also began issuing Insurance Product Information Documents (IPIDs) along 
with their renewal documentation in 2019, which also set out that personal 
belongings were not covered under the policy. So, taking everything into account, Im 
satisfied this exclusion was made clear in the policy documentation, such that Mr M 
ought reasonably to have known about it, and was therefore in a position to make an 
informed choice about whether the policy was right for him or not upon renewal.
Mr M also submits that CCG failed to provide him with the appropriate policy 
documentation upon renewal, as they only provided a link to a website where the 
policy documents could be viewed. Many insurers and brokers have now gone 
paperless and many (if not most) will now issue their policy documentation 
electronically or store it on an online customer portal. CCG told Mr M to Please 
make sure you are happy with what you are buying by checking the alternative 
insurers policy documents on our website and they provided the relevant web link for 
him to do this. So, Im satisfied that Mr M was told where and how to access the 
necessary policy documentation upon each subsequent renewal. I appreciate he may 
not have felt the need to read it. But as the policyholder, the obligation was on Mr M 
to make sure he read and understood the policy terms, and I can see that CCG had 
also stressed the importance of reading the documentation to make sure he was 
happy with his cover. So, I dont think they can fairly be held responsible if he chose 
not to read the policy documentation on their website.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, and I sympathise with the loss he 
has suffered after being the victim of a crime. But in the circumstances, Im not persuaded 
that CCG have failed in their obligations when selling/renewing the policy, so I will not be 
asking them to take any further action, as I do not consider it to have been mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman