DRN-3063631
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with the service that hes received from Lloyds Bank PLC, including that 
Lloyds wouldnt review the terms of his consolidation loan and that he wasnt offered the 
lowest available interest rate. 
What happened
Mr J took out a consolidation loan with Lloyds in October 2018. The consolidation loan was 
for approximately £29,000 over a term of seven years and attracts an interest rate of 9.00%. 
The loan consolidated Mr Js previously existing borrowing which included an overdrawn 
balance on a current account as well as credit card debt. Mr J had been paying an interest 
rate of 13.60% on his previously existing borrowing.
Mr Js understanding of the consolidation loan was that the terms of the loan would be 
available for review after a twelve-month period. However, when Mr J approached Lloyds 
and asked to review the terms of the loan, he was informed that this wasnt possible and that 
the terms of the loan are fixed for the full duration of the loan. Mr J wasnt happy about this, 
especially as hed noticed that Lloyds were advertising loans of up to £30,000 with an 
interest rate of 3.90%. So, he raised a complaint.
Lloyds looked at Mr Js complaint, but they noted that the terms and conditions of the 
consolidation loan included that the terms of the loan were fixed for the duration of the loan. 
Lloyds also noted that the 3.90% rate advertised for new loans that Mr J had referred to, was 
the best available rate and as such wasnt guaranteed to all applicants but was dependent 
on any applicant meeting specific criteria. Because of this, Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Js 
complaint.
Mr J wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also noted that the terms of the 
consolidation loan included that the terms of the loan werent open for review, and so they 
also didnt uphold Mr Js complaint.
Mr J remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mr J might be frustrated that Lloyds arent allowing him to take 
advantage of loans advertised by Lloyds which attract a more beneficial rate of interest than 
he is currently paying on his consolidation loan.
Mr J has stated that his understanding of the consolidation loan, at the point that he took the 
loan out, was that the terms of the loan would be open for review after twelve months. And, 
given that Mr Js overall financial position had improved, meaning that he felt it likely that he 
would meet the criteria for a more advantageous interest rate upon any review, its 
understandable that Mr J would be upset that Lloyds arent willing to conduct such a review 
and update the terms of his existing consolidation loan accordingly.
Im unable to comment on what was or wasnt explained verbally to Mr J by Lloyds at the 
time that Mr J took the consolidation loan, and this is because I wasnt present at those 
discussions. And, while I have no reason not to believe Mr J when he says that he was 
advised that the consolidation loan would be open for review, I also have no reason not to 
believe Lloyds when they say that Mr J wasnt advised as such. 
However, it is notable that the terms and conditions of the consolidation loan do state that 
the interest rate agreed and accepted by Mr J at the start of the consolidation loan cannot be 
changed for the duration of the loan.
Mr J was presented with these terms at the point of agreeing the loan, and by accepting the 
consolidation loan he was accepting the terms and conditions of that loan, including that the 
interest rate wouldnt be open for review. 
It also should be noted that I dont feel that Mr J has been disadvantaged by the terms of the 
consolidation loan, and this is because the interest rate of 9.00% that the loan attracts is 
lower than the interest Mr J was paying on his previously existing borrowing which was 
consolidated into this loan. This means that Mr J has benefitted financially from accepting 
the loan, when considered against the amount he was paying in interest prior to taking it.
Furthermore, while Mr J might be upset that he isnt being allowed to benefit from an 
advertised lower interest rate, the lower rate that Mr J refers to is for new borrowing and is 
indicative only, meaning that it isnt guaranteed to all new applicants but is dependent on the 
applicant meeting certain criteria stipulated by Lloyds. As such, not only is the advertised 
lower interest rate applicable only to a different type of borrowing to that which Mr J currently 
holds, but also theres no guarantee that Mr J would qualify for that lower rate, if it were 
possible for him to apply for it.
Mr J has referenced that another bank has offered him a 0% interest repayment plan on his 
credit card arrears with that bank, and Mr J believes that Lloyds should do the same. 
However, an arrears repayment plan on a credit card is not the same as a consolidation loan 
and so a direct comparison doesnt apply here. Additionally, Lloyds are under no obligation 
to match an interest rate offered by a different bank.
Mr J has also advised that he feels that he was in a state of persistent debt at the time that 
he took the consolidation loan and that he sought help from Lloyd about this. The Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) brought in rules for how banks should define whether a customer is 
considered as being in a state of persistent debt and how to act when a customer is defined 
as being in that state. However, while these rules became effective in March 2018, they 
were dependent upon a lengthy assessment period to determine whether a customer was 
considered as being in persistent debt and which didnt commence until the rules came into 
force. 
This means that at the time that that Mr J took the consolidation loan, in October 2018, it 
wasnt possible for him to have been assessed as being in persistent debt or not  as 
defined by those rules. In turn, this means that Im satisfied that the actions that Lloyds did 
take in regard to Mr J, namely the provision of a consolidation loan to reduce the overall 
interest that Mr J was paying, wasnt unfair or unreasonable at that time.
Finally, Mr J has stated that he is unhappy with the way in which Lloyds have handled his 
complaint. I can appreciate how Mr J might be frustrated here, but it isnt within the remit of this service to look at complaints about how a business has handled a complaint. This is 
because the rules which stipulate what this service can and cant look at  which can be 
found in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the FCA Handbook  include that this 
service can look at complaints about regulated activities, which complaint handling is not. As 
such, Im unable to consider this aspect of Mr Js complaint.
All of which means that I dont feel that Lloyds have done anything wrong here or that 
theyve acted unfairly or unreasonably in any way, and it follows from this that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any further action.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr J was wanting, but I trust that hell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman