DRN-3360863
The complaint
Mr D complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly declined a payment holiday 
application in relation to a personal loan.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
In February 2020 Nationwide approved a loan for Mr D. The first direct debit payment was
returned after Mr D made a manual payment.
On 24 March 2020 Mr D asked Nationwide to approve a payment holiday for his loan but it 
was declined. Nationwide said Mr D had missed his first payment so didnt qualify. But 
Nationwide agreed a nil payment plan for one month.
A further plan was agreed by Nationwide in August 2020. Mr D went on to complain 
Nationwide had reported missed payments on his credit file. Nationwide didnt uphold Mr Ds 
complaint and didnt offer to amend his credit file. But Nationwide paid Mr D £25 to 
apologise for some service issues when he complained.
Mr D referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an adjudicator. They upheld 
Mr Ds complaint as Nationwide made a mistake when it said his first payment was missed. 
The investigator increased the compensation by £75 and Nationwide agreed to backdate 
the payment holiday to Mr Ds loan amend his credit file. Nationwide later agreed to pay Mr 
D a further £75, taking the increased award to £150.
Mr D asked to appeal and said hed suffered a loss as the information on his credit file 
impacted a secured loan application and the interest rate he qualified for. As Mr D asked to 
appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the details above as all parties broadly agree 
about the timeline for this complaint. Ive looked at Mr Ds loan history and can see he did 
make the first payment in line with the loan agreement. The direct debit was refunded, but 
thats because a manual payment was made instead. Im satisfied Nationwide shouldnt 
have declined Mr Ds payment holiday application on the basis he was in arrears. I agree 
hes been treated unfairly as a result.
Nationwide agreed to rewrite Mr Ds loan and remove adverse information from his credit 
file. Whilst Im pleased thats the case, things appear to have moved on and Mr D has told 
us hes now paid the loan off. As a result, Nationwide doesnt need to take action to review 
or amend the loan on its systems.
Im satisfied Nationwide incorrectly and unfairly recorded adverse information on Mr Ds 
credit file as a result of its mistake. So Nationwide will need to amend Mr Ds credit file to 
remove all adverse information its reported in relation to his loan.
Mr D has confirmed he doesnt feel the £150 compensation Nationwide offered is fair and 
says the issue impacted a secured loan and the interest rate he received. Whilst I accept 
the arrears information willve impacted how other businesses saw Mr Ds credit, for me to 
award the costs hes told us about Id have to be satisfied it was solely Nationwides 
actions that had led to a loss. As Mr D told our investigator, thats a difficult position to 
verify.
Id also need to take into account that Mr D contacted Nationwide in March 2020 and told it 
he was unable to make loan payments as his income was impacted by the pandemic, 
along with other payment holidays he mayve taken. Whilst I understand Nationwide did 
make a serious mistake, I havent been persuaded it was the only issue that mayve 
impacted follow up loan applications.
As Mr D has repaid the loan, Nationwide will need to amend his credit file to remove all 
adverse information it recorded. I can see the investigator increased the level of 
compensation and Nationwide agreed to pay Mr D £150. But I think the settlement should 
be increased to £300 - a figure that more fairly reflects the impact of the issues raised on 
Mr D.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional information they wanted me to consider 
before I reached my final decision. Mr D confirmed receipt of the decision. Nationwide 
responded and asked some questions about the basis of the award I made but didnt send 
any new information for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided new information for me to consider, I see no reason to change the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr Ds complaint should be 
upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to settle 
as follows: 
- Update Mr Ds credit file to remove all adverse information recorded about the loan
- Pay Mr D a further £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman