DRN-3244727
The complaint
Mr S complains about advice he was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension plan. He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him and believes this has caused him a financial loss.
Portal Financial Services LLP is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things 
simple Ill refer to Portal. 
What happened
Mr S approached Portal in 2015 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. 
A suitability report was issued by Portal on 12 November 2015. The report started by saying 
it recommended he should not transfer his pension at all but leave it where it was instead. 
Nevertheless, in the same report, Portal said that because Mr S insisted that he wanted to 
transfer out of his OPS, it would help him do this. It said it could treat him as an insistent 
client, a term used in the industry to describe a situation where a client goes against the 
advice of a professional financial adviser.
The information gathered by Portal about Mr S was broadly as follows:
Mr S was 55 years old and living in a house he owned. The property was said to be 
valued at around £80,000.
He worked in the public sector earning approximately £19,000 (gross) a year and had 
a disposable income after expenses of £500 per month. He had £3,000 in savings.
Mr S was a current member of an OPS which hed joined in the 1990s. The cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of this scheme was around £99,000 at that time. (I 
have since confirmed the correct normal retirement age in Mr Ss circumstances was 
66). 
Mr S had a three-year loan which was being paid off monthly. He had no further 
assets or liabilities other than those outlined above.
In the light of recently changed rules - pension freedoms - Mr S told Portal he 
wanted to access his OPS to take the maximum tax-free cash available. He also said 
he wanted to drawdown a further £23,000 each year until the fund was depleted. 
However, Mr S said he didnt have any current plans to retire or stop working. He 
said he wanted cash to pay for items such as a car, a Rolex watch and to trade in 
gold items. He also said hed give some money away to relatives.
Portal went on to help facilitate the transfer out of Mr Ss OPS. It says this was on an 
insistent client basis.
Mr S says he was given unsuitable advice by Portal. The complaint has been referred to our 
Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and said we should uphold it. 
They thought Mr S would not have transferred out if Portal had given him suitable advice. 
Portal hasnt agreed with our investigator. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, 
its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. 
What was Portal required to do?
Portal says Mr S ultimately went against its advice of 12 November 2015. It says that he was 
advised in the suitability report that he ought to stay inside the DB scheme, and it was Mr S 
himself that insisted he wanted to transfer out. It says this meant he became an insistent 
client. Ive therefore considered this point first.
There was limited guidance available specifically about insistent clients at the time of this 
advice, but nonetheless, the regulator placed important general obligations on firms like 
Portal. These included the overarching principles such as: Principle 1  Integrity; Principle 2 
- skill, care and diligence; Principle 6 - customers interests; Principle 9 - reasonable care. 
In addition, the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules required Portal to provide 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading. So, Portals recommendation had to be 
clear and Mr S had to have understood the consequences of going against the 
recommendation.
However, I should also point out that there is no rule to prevent advisers transacting 
business against their advice, if the client insists. So, I need to think here about whether 
enough was done by Portal to try to find alternative ways of meeting Mr Ss objectives. I 
have also considered whether the insistent client process in this case was simply used by 
Portal to transact what Mr S thought he wanted to achieve.
I have considered all these things carefully in determining whether I think Portal did anything 
wrong, because Portal ought to have taken these things into account at the time.
Was Mr S an insistent client?
Everything Ive said above demonstrates that firms, like Portal, had a number of important 
responsibilities when providing advice. Despite what Mr S thought he wanted, I think his 
expectation in paying for regulated financial advice was that he would be clearly guided on 
the basis of his circumstances and means. The information ought to have been clear, fair 
and not misleading. In particular, it should be clear that the business has not recommended 
the transaction and the risks proposed by the client ought to have been pointed out.
I dont think Portal adequately did this. 
Portals fact-find was completed on 29 October 2015. Given this pension represented the 
vast majority of his retirement provision, I dont think Portal did a good job of really finding 
out enough about Mr Ss circumstances. It was not a comprehensive document, by which I 
mean it was summarised and shortened to a somewhat careless extent. For example, Mr Ss 
outgoings were not individually detailed and there were quite a few fields in the document unfilled. So, in my view, the extent of all the information listed about Mr S cannot be 
guaranteed as being complete. 
I also note the amount of cash Mr S was said to need was the exact amount of tax-free 
cash he could access from transferring out of his current pension scheme. When asked 
where the money would be used, generalised comments were made on the fact-find and 
the important section about loss of his guaranteed pension income wasnt filled out in any 
real detail. In all, this was a poor document which in my view implies there were substantial 
shortcomings in the financial discussions with Mr S. I think the fact-find was already forming 
the basis of him transferring out of the DB scheme.
So, when Mr S was written to by Portal a few days later, on 4 November 2015, the letter 
reflected that he wanted to access his pension early and enter drawdown with the remaining 
sums. The course had also already been set for him to access the rest of the pension soon 
after. In my view, there had been no meaningful dialogue about the risks involved and that 
hed be leaving a pension scheme he was currently a member of and which had built up 
guarantees and benefits over the last 20 years. 
On first look, the suitability report recommendation of 12 November 2015 appeared to be 
cautioning against transferring out of Mr Ss DB scheme. However, the report then said Mr S 
had wanted to be treated as an insistent client and had indicated this on a form hed signed 
the previous week. Ive looked at the form that Portal refers to. It was signed by Mr S on 6 
November 2015 which was before hed received the suitability report. I note the first part of 
the form involved Mr S selecting from one of three tick-box pre-determined options which 
had been set out by Portal. In my view, these were not the only options available to Mr S and 
Portals advice ought to have fairly reflected this. 
Portal said the second half of the form showed Mr S had explained in his own words more 
about why he wanted to transfer out. However, I disagree with the relevance of this as Ive 
seen that this part of the form is also substantially flawed. I say this because the explanation 
in Mr Ss own words is very short indeed and in my view is demonstrative of someone who 
may not have understood the situation he may be getting into. Mr Ss statement contains 
very little information as to why he is prepared to discount the apparent advice from Portal 
not to transfer out of his DB scheme. And it only says Mr S wants to buy a number of items 
and give some money away. In my view, this does not show, nor does it even imply, Mr S 
was aware of the longer-term consequences of giving up his pension benefits and his 
retirement security. I also believe the forms returned by Mr S indicate a vulnerability, clearly 
demonstrated by his lack of understanding of the process.
I conclude that Portal were accepting a decision that Mr S had made based purely on the 
information it had sent him in its letter of 4 November 2015. And that information wasnt very 
comprehensive. It fell short of being a well-considered recommendation. If Portal thought 
that transferring this DB pension wasnt suitable, the Principles of business, that Ive referred 
to above, meant that Portal had a duty to explain its advice in a persuasive and clear way. It 
ought to have been convincing Mr S that its recommendation was suitable. Had Portal done 
that, then Mr S could have made a genuinely informed decision. 
The letter of 4 November ought to have been a more comprehensive recommendation. It 
started, like an earlier letter in October, by letting Mr S know how much tax-free cash he 
could get by transferring, which Portal knew Mr S was already attracted by. It then said, as 
the critical yield  with this provider is 9.5% it would be against our recommendation to do 
this. It also explained what the DB benefits could be at retirement age of 66. But it offered 
no further explanation why Mr S ought not to transfer. Given Portal expected him to make 
such an important decision based on this letter, I think it should have been much clearer.It could, for example, have included the following supporting reasons why the transfer was 
unsuitable:
Leaving the scheme would deny Mr S the opportunity to continue to accrue benefits 
in the scheme
Mr S may be unable to access a pension scheme on similar terms after coming out of 
his scheme
It ought to have considered his income needs in retirement and how they could be 
met if he did transfer, given that Portal understood that Mr S was likely to use his 
entire fund within three years of the transfer.
It could have given an opinion on his reasons for wanting the tax-free cash early and 
made it clear that it was costly way to raise unnecessary cash at that time
So, I think all these things show how Portals dealings with Mr S fell substantially short of 
what I would expect to see from regulated financial advisers. I think the insistent client 
situation was simply engineered by Portal and the various forms  which were mainly pre-
populated  were used to facilitate this. The whole process was just presented to Mr S - who 
clearly wanted to access some cash and he was required to do very little to get it. Portal 
failed to ask reasonable questions about how he might fare in retirement or how his plans for 
later life could be financially supported. Portal should have reiterated the risks this course of 
action would cause.
The suitability report that Portal issued on 12 November 2015 afforded Portal another 
opportunity to provide Mr S with a suitable recommendation to prevent him being financially 
disadvantaged. But this report started with the acceptance that Mr S was insisting on 
transferring. It said that it hadnt recommended a transfer but directly under that, it said Mr S 
had told Portal he wanted to transfer out. So Portal made another recommendation just a 
few lines down from the first. This second recommendation was directly at odds with the first; 
it said Mr S would be treated as an insistent client and that Portal would carry on with the 
transfer process. By following the recommendation to access cash and put the remaining 
sum into a drawdown account Portal said Mr S would meet his stated objectives. This 
recommendation went on to say that by accepting this Mr S could release £24,657 tax-free 
cash and a taxable gross lump sum of £23,000 from his pension.
The suitability report of 12 November was the only detailed recommendation that I think Mr S 
received. I also note its focus was entirely on the way in which Mr S should transfer. Overall, 
I think Mr S would have found the suitability report unclear. Despite what Portal says, I think 
it was merely setting the scene for Mr S to transfer out anyway. Mr S was asked to sign a 
declaration containing a number of statements which I think was intended basically to 
indemnify Portal from any responsibility. So, Portals actions and inactions here fitted the 
regulators later definition of a papering exercise. 
Ive also listened to a recording of Portals phone conversation with Mr S from the same day 
to think about what happened. During the call, light appears to be being made of Mr Ss plan 
to buy gold and a Rolex watch with the monies released from his pension. It was 
disappointing to hear laughter from the Portal call-handler, who should have been pointing 
out that there were serious risks in giving up a DB pension and to spend the full amount of 
his retirement provision within the next few years.
For the above reasons, I dont believe the evidence is plausible that Mr S was a genuinely  
insistent client. Mr S wasnt experienced in these matters and so was heavily influenced by his advisor to whom hed paid a considerable sum. Portal produced mainly templated forms 
and statements which failed to highlight the risks and issues of him giving up his pension, in 
a way that was personal to him. 
Given that I dont think Mr S met the definition of an insistent client I went on to consider 
whether I thought this made a difference to the outcome of the complaint. In particular, Ive 
given a great deal of thought to whether transferring out could ever be said to be suitable.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. This means Portal should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ss best interests (COBS 19.1.6). 
Financial comparisons 
Theres no real dispute in this case that Mr S could be losing out in the longer term by 
transferring out of his DB scheme. After all, Portal itself says its recommendation of 12 
November 2015 originally said he shouldnt be transferring out. 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The suitability report said the critical yield required to match Mr Ss benefits at the normal 
retirement age of 66 was 9.5%. It said this figure was based on a full pension being paid by 
the OPS. Portal also said the critical yield would be 8.2% if a reduced pension of £5,098 per 
year was taken together with a lump sum of £33,989.
The relevant discount rate was 4.2% per year for 10 years to retirement. For further 
comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection 
rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year. Ive noted Mr Ss aspiration was to 
access his pension much earlier, however, at the age of around 55.
So, I've taken all these things into account, along with the composition of assets in the 
discount rate. I have also considered what Portal said about Mr Ss attitude to risk being 
balanced. There would be little point in Mr S giving up the guarantees available to him 
through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the 
scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield was 8.2 %, I think he was highly likely to 
receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a 
result of investing in line with his attitude to risk. There seems no dispute about this.
For these reasons a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ss best interests. Of 
course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
Based on the evidence Ive seen Mr S had very little investment experience and I think any 
assertion that he wanted an active role in managing his pension was likely to have come 
from the adviser rather than Mr S himself.He also had an income of £19,000 and had disposable income according to Portals own 
records. His debt was modest. So, whilst obviously an attractive prospect for Mr S in some 
respects, accessing his pension early needed to be considered very carefully in his 
circumstances and balanced against other aspects of his overall situation and longer-term 
retirement security. I dont think Mr S had a genuine need to transfer out of his DB scheme 
to access cash to the exclusion of everything else.
Mr S was only 55 at the time of the advice, and based on both what Ive seen and been told 
by Portal, he didnt have concrete retirement plans. I think this just added to the fact that it 
was simply too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB scheme. 
Accordingly, I dont think it was suitable for Mr S to give up all the guaranteed benefits the 
DB scheme came with when he didnt really yet know what his needs in later life would be. I 
cant see evidence that he had such an urgent need for cash and other income at this point. 
Accessing the pension at 55 was therefore to the exclusion of other major priorities, 
especially when considering what hed have to forgo to get at it. I dont think Portal explained 
any of this to Mr S in a meaningful way.
Summary
I have set out in this decision why I dont think Mr S met the definition of an insistent client. I 
think there is substantial and verifiable evidence that this process was used by Portal simply 
to transact what Mr S had said he wanted to achieve  access to his pension early.
As a result of this finding, I went on to consider whether the transfer out was suitable. Portal 
facilitated the transfer and in reality it recommended a course of action which was not in Mr 
Ss best interests. As regards suitability, given Portal itself has said it initially advised against 
a transfer, it would be hard for it to argue that the transfer was in fact suitable. And I agree 
that it was not. The financial comparisons showed hed be worse off transferring and there 
was no coherent assessment of Mr Ss retirement needs. 
Mr Ss existing DB scheme contained a number of valuable guarantees and benefits which 
made transferring out something that needed a great deal of consideration. Portals job 
wasnt to simply transact what Mr S thought he wanted  it was required to really understand 
his needs and provide him with suitable advice. 
Finally, Ive gone on to think about whether, if Mr S had been given clear and persuasive 
reasons why transferring wasnt in his best interests, he would have followed advice to 
remain inside the DB scheme. My view is that I think he would. With his circumstances and 
lack of investment experience, Mr S went to Portal seeking advice, which he paid for. I think 
its more likely that he would have followed that advice had it been delivered with the skill, 
care and diligence required and shown to be in his interests.
Portal failed in its duty, so Im upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Portal to put Mr S, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for its unsuitable advice. I consider Mr S would have most 
likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the mostrecent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ss acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ss 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ss SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ss pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr S within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr S.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that 
Portal pays the balance.
In acknowledgement of the importance of Mr Ss pension and the knock-on effect and 
emotional impact of the unsuitable advice, Portal should pay £300 for distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr S the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr S any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr S any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr S the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr S.
If Mr S accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial 
Services LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding if he doesnt accept my decision. Further, its 
unlikely that Mr S can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any 
final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman