DRN-3878762
The complaint
Ms K complains about the service she received from TSB Bank plc (TSB) when she 
attempted to transfer money out of her account.
What happened
Ms K holds an account with TSB. She also holds an account with another bank overseas. In 
December 2021, she attempted to transfer money from her TSB account to her overseas 
account using an online money transfer service which Ill call W. She received an error 
message saying that the transfer wasnt possible. Ms K says she tried again repeatedly but 
the transfer was unsuccessful and an error message was produced each time. She says this 
was because of a problem with TSBs online banking system.
Ms K was overseas at the time, so she asked a friend to deliver a letter to TSB asking it to 
correct the problem. TSB didnt respond. Ms K says she spent a lot of time trying to resolve 
the problem and wrote to TSB continuously between December 2021 and April 2022. She 
says that TSB neither fixed the problem nor provided a satisfactory response.
Ms K says this caused stress and anxiety and meant that she didnt have access to her 
funds for several months. She says that the exchange rate was less favourable by Spring 
2022 than it had been in December 2021. She says that TSB should reimburse her for the 
difference in rates and pay her compensation for the trouble and upset she experienced. 
She also says that TSB should offer more options to overseas customers for getting in touch 
because incurring long distance call charges isnt reasonable. She says that the chat facility 
in TSBs app isnt viable from overseas as it requires customers to log in using their UK 
phone number.
But TSB says theres no record of Ms K attempting a transfer from her account at the time in 
question. It says that, when a customer accesses online banking or its mobile app, a log and 
time stamp are created, recording each step and the outcome. TSB says that Ms K logged 
into online banking in December 2021 and January 2022. But it says that no payment 
attempts were recorded in the log. So, it doesnt think it has made a mistake.
TSB says it doesnt have any record of receiving Ms Ks letter either. And it says that, as a 
UK only bank, its international services are limited but its website sets out the ways 
customers can get in touch. 
Ms K asked this service to look at the complaint. Our Investigator didnt think TSB needed to 
do anything. But Ms K didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
Ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, as some of it is here, I reach my decision 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened - in 
light of the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive seen the log of Ms Ks online banking activity for the relevant period. It doesnt show any 
attempted transfers. So I find TSBs comments about this to be correct. But, in the 
circumstances here, I dont think the log shows the full picture of what happened. Thats 
because Im satisfied that Ms K did attempt a transfer, as shown by the screenshots she has 
provided as well as her explanation of what happened.
Ms K says she attempted the transfer using Ws website. She holds an account with W and 
has used it successfully on other occasions to make transfers. She says that the process is 
for the money to be transferred from her TSB account to her account with W; W then sends 
it on to her overseas account. From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that the 
attempted transfers were initiated on Ws website.
One of the ways that transfers can be made to W is by debit card. TSB says that Ms Ks 
debit card had expired and that could be why the payment failed. Im satisfied that Ms Ks 
card had expired by December 2021. But she says she didnt use a debit card for the 
transfer. So, I dont find that to be the reason the payment failed.
From the information available to me, I think Ms K was using a service offered by W which 
allows customers to log in to a secure page hosted by TSB and authorise the payment to W, 
without having to manually set up a transfer. Customers start this process from Ws website 
and dont need to open their TSB online banking separately to approve the transfer. Ms K 
says she requested the transfer on TSBs website. I think its likely she was on a TSB page 
along the lines Ive just described, rather than logged in to TSBs online banking service. The 
screenshots show that Ms K was asked to enter her log in details to authorise the payment 
and to confirm the payment details. In both cases, Ms K had the option to cancel and go 
back to Ws website. 
I asked TSB if a transfer initiated in this way would have shown up on Ms Ks online banking 
log. TSB said it couldnt be sure. So its possible that payments initiated in the way Ive 
described dont show up on the online banking log. 
Ms K says that the error messages she saw were generated by TSBs website. Ive seen 
screenshots of the error messages. They include TSBs logo and a TSB phone number. 
Although this suggests that the requests were declined by TSB, I cant be sure of that. Its 
possible there were connectivity issues or a problem at Ws end. At this stage, I dont think 
its going to be possible for the parties to ascertain why exactly those transfers failed. But, 
even if the requests were declined by TSB, I cant safely conclude that TSB was wrong to do 
so. And I havent seen anything which leads me to conclude that there was an error with 
TSBs banking system which caused the problem.
TSB says that there werent any known problems with online payments at the time. It says it 
cant say for sure why the payment failed as there are lots of possible reasons. But it has 
suggested that the problem was to do with the authentication process. I think thats likely. 
Ms K says she tried again and again to complete the transfer, but the issue persisted. The 
error messages provided a phone number to call if the problem persisted. As far as Im 
aware, Ms K didnt call. Its possible the issue could have been resolved at the time if she 
had done so. 
Ms K was overseas and didnt want to incur the costs of an international call. I can 
understand her point of view. But I dont think TSB could have known that she wasnt in the UK. And I think its reasonable to expect her to have made the call if the issue was urgent, 
especially after multiple failed attempts. Ms K says that she couldnt use TSBs online chat 
facility either, because it requires her to log in using the UK phone number registered to her 
account. She says she didnt have access to that phone while she was overseas. I can 
understand the difficulty she faced, but I dont think it was TSBs fault.
TSB says that Ms K may have been able to make the payment if shed logged in to online 
banking through the desktop site. But it says she may have needed to use her UK mobile 
phone to receive a One Time Passcode (OTP) for this. Thats part of TSBs security 
process which is designed to protect Ms Ks account. I note that Ms K was aware of the 
issues around UK and international phone numbers and OTPs, as it was addressed in a 
complaint which she raised with TSB in 2020. I dont think its TSBs fault if Ms K didnt have 
access to the phone number which was registered to her account. 
Ms K says that the issue in 2020 was caused by a problem with TSBs online banking 
system. She had tried to make a payment with her debit card initially and then via online 
banking. In TSBs response to that complaint, it said it couldnt explain why the debit card 
transaction had failed after Ms K added a UK phone number to her account. It accepted that 
there could have been a bank error. Ms K had then attempted to make the payment using 
online banking. The payment failed and TSB said this was due to a bank related system 
issue. But I dont think it follows that the same error occurred here. Ill explain why.
In the case of the system error, this happened when Ms K was attempting the transfer using 
online banking. As Ive explained above, I find that she wasnt making the transfer through 
online banking here. So I dont think the problem is necessarily the same. Also, in the first 
case, TSB was able to identify a system error. This indicates that, where something has 
gone wrong with TSBs system, TSB is able to identify the error and will uphold a complaint 
on that basis. TSB says it hasnt been able to identify any error with its system on this 
occasion and I cant conclude from the information Ive seen that there was such an error 
here. TSB cant explain why the transfer failed. But I dont think that means it was 
necessarily TSBs fault.
Turning to Ms Ks letter to TSB in December 2021, I think it was handed in at one of TSBs 
branches. I havent seen anything which explains why TSB has no record of receiving it. As 
she hadnt heard anything, Ms K contacted TSB by email in February 2022. She received a 
response, which then led to some further emails between the parties. Ms K found the 
responses unsatisfactory, and says it took too long for TSB to reply to her emails. But I dont 
think any delay was entirely down to TSB. And I dont think it caused Ms K particular 
detriment. Thats because the transfer had failed several days before Ms K sent her letter to 
TSB. And it wasnt until two months later that she followed it up with an email.
I think it would have been reasonable for Ms K to call TSB if she wanted the situation dealt 
with urgently. When TSB replied to her email, it wanted to speak to her on the phone. I think 
that was reasonable. I realise that Ms K didnt want to incur the cost of international calls, but 
TSB offered to call her if she provided a phone number. I think that was a fair suggestion. 
I know Ms K feels strongly about her complaint and Im sorry to disappoint her. But I dont 
think TSB acted unfairly or unreasonably here. So, Im not going to ask it to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman