DRN-2939944
The complaint
Mr Hs grandfather (also Mr H) has complained on his behalf about the refusal of a travel 
insurance claim by Zurich Insurance PLC. 
What happened
In January 2020, Mr H was involved in an accident abroad and was hospitalised with life- 
threatening and life-changing injuries which required emergency medical treatment and 
repatriation back to the UK. Mr Hs parents had to fly out to be with him and escort him 
home. They made a claim on his behalf for the medical and repatriation costs.  
Zurich refused the claim, however, as it says the policy only covers the policyholder while 
driving any vehicle that they are licenced to drive in the U.K. Mr H had a standard drivers 
licence which covered driving a maximum 50cc capacity scooter/moped designed to go 15-
28mph only. The motorbike he was driving when he had the accident was 125cc and so 
Zurich said the claim was not covered. 
Mr Hs family are understandably very unhappy about this and the way the claim had been 
handled. The total they had to raise was around £200,000. Mr Hs family have a number of 
submissions, which Ive summarised below: 
The wording of the policy is insufficiently detailed to have prevented Mr H from 
unintentionally being left without cover, when he had acted with reasonable diligence 
to obtain a policy which would cover him to ride a motor scooter whilst away. 
Mr Hs U.K. driving licence entitled him to ride a moped. He checked this and the 
policy before travel. It would not be obvious, unless the policy holder is very familiar 
with U.K. motorcycling legal definitions about vehicle class, that it is only the engine 
capacity and not the design of the vehicle which defines it as a moped type vehicle.
Terms like "moped" and "scooter" are often misunderstood and have having different 
meanings in different countries. 
The situation is more complicated because a full UK driving licence also acts as a 
provisional entitlement to ride a 125cc vehicle on the roads in the UK.
The hire company had no issue with letting him hire the motorbike and Mr H  
believed he was insured to drive it. This is a common practice.
Mr H insured himself in good faith but due to a lack of detailed knowledge of UK 
motorcycling lawhe fell foul of the subclauses in the depths of the policy.
The fact Zurich took many days to check the nuances of its own policy makes it 
plain this would not have been straightforward for [him when] taking out the policy 
online.
The financial consequences to Mr Hs family have been extensive and damaging. 
Many thousands of people each year will purchase insurance policies to ride 
"mopeds" abroad thinking that they are covered and probably most of them will not 
hold full UK bike entitlement. 
Zurich is exploiting this widely held misunderstanding and is still issuing policies with 
the details in the small print which do not make this obvious to someone without a 
detailed knowledge of motorcycling law.
It may be in the interests of insurance companies to avoid liability in these frequently 
occurring cases, but it is certainly not in the interests of unenlightened youngsters 
travelling abroad under such a misapprehension but having paid their premiums in 
good faith. This is unfair and Zurich could and should make this much clearer in the 
policy. 
In any case, the capacity of the bike was not the cause of the accident and therefore 
irrelevant, as Mr H was manoeuvring at low speed when he was hit by another bike. 
The decision to decline the claim came as a shock and should have been managed 
better. 
The hire company told Zurich the details about the vehicle that Mr H had been riding 
on 6 January 2020, but his family were not told the claim was not going to be met 
until 16 January 2020. They were suddenly faced with a huge bill for medical 
expenses which, if they hadnt covered he would not receive treatment and so they 
had to borrow from family and friends. 
Had his family been advised sooner that the claim was not going to be met, they 
could have begun raising the funds and making arrangements much earlier. They 
also would have had the option of repatriating Mr H at an earlier stage. This could 
have saved a considerable sum in medical costs and resulted in him returning to a 
major trauma centre in the UK for treatment much earlier. The undue stress this 
caused was considerable.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He didnt recommend that it should be 
upheld, as he thought the policy terms were sufficiently clear and Mr H did not hold a licence 
to drive a 125cc motorbike, so he was not covered for the accident. 
Mr Hs family do not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a very difficult case. I have immense sympathy for Mr H and his familys position.    
Mr H has suffered life-changing injuries and it has been a terrible ordeal for him and his 
family. However, I am sorry to say that I dont think Zurich has acted unreasonably in 
refusing the claim. I will explain why. 
Is the claim covered? 
Like all insurance policies, this one does not cover all incidents that might happen to  
someone while travelling abroad. Instead it covers certain specified insured events and this 
cover is in turn subject to terms and conditions, depending on what risks the insurer is 
prepared to take. The policy Mr H held provides cover for: 
Activities you are covered for
Driving any car or motorcycle, moped or scooter, for which you are licenced to drive in the 
UK. 
No motor rallies or racing. For scooters, mopeds, motorcycles or similar vehicles you must 
wear a crash helmet and appropriate protective clothing.
This section of cover is then subject to exclusions, including:ExclusionDriving any car or motorcycle, moped or scooter for which you are licenced to 
drive in the U.K.; and
"We will not pay for claims which are in any way related to:
14. Driving any car or motorcycle, moped or scooter unless you have a full UK licence which 
permits you to drive the equivalent category of vehicle." 
Mr Hs family say this is buried in the small print and not clear enough. I dont agree that the 
exclusion is buried. The policy is quite long, which is normal for travel policies given they 
cover a range of different things, and there are a number of different sections of cover but it 
lists the activities covered, or not covered, while on holiday. Within the driving section of the 
policy, it details the cover provided and the restrictions to that cover (for vehicles that the 
policyholder has a U.K. licence for). Im of the view that is sufficiently clear. 
Mr Hs family also say that the licencing requirements are complicated, so in order to 
properly interpret the policy terms set out above, a policyholder would have to have 
knowledge of the U.K. licence laws. In addition, they say people often confuse a moped and 
scooter; and Mr H thought he was riding a moped, which he was allowed to ride in the U.K. 
and didnt think the engine capacity made a difference.
The DVLA website states the following regarding what you can ride as a U.K. standard 
licence holder:
You can ride a moped (max 50cc) without L plates. If you want to ride a motorcycle over 
50cc and up to 125cc you will need to take CBT. Once you have a valid CBT certificate you 
can ride a 125cc with L plates.
I can see the point being made by Mr Hs family about possible confusion as to the 
difference between different classes of motorbike and whether a bike is a scooter or a 
moped. However, while the bike Mr H was riding was a relatively small one, it had a 125cc 
engine and it is sufficiently clear in my opinion that a standard U.K. driving licence would not 
permit anyone to drive it in the U.K.
I do not think the rules around this are so unclear that Zurich should not be allowed to rely on 
that exclusion. I am also not persuaded that there is any deliberate attempt by Zurich to take 
advantage of a lack of understanding by policyholders. Zurich has chosen not to cover the 
risk of accidents arising from people who are not licenced to drive powerful motorbikes while 
abroad. It is entitled to make that underwriting decision, as all insurers are permitted to 
decide the risks they do want to cover and the risks they dont want to cover. 
Mr H might have been legally permitted to ride it in the country he was visiting, that doesnt 
mean he was covered by his insurance policy with Zurich to do so.  
Mr Hs family have also said, the engine capacity of the bike was not material to the claim 
anyway, as he was waiting to manoeuvre and was not travelling. However, the policy 
excludes all claims relating to riding a more than 50cc motorbike and so it doesnt matter if it 
wasnt directly the cause of that accident. There is no qualification in the policy that would 
provide for the cause of the accident to be taken into account in this way.
I can understand how much of a shock it was for Mr Hs family to find out the insurance was 
not going to meet the claim, with Mr H being so badly injured. However, any 
misunderstanding about the cover provided is not due to anything Zurich did wrong in my 
opinion, and I dont think consequently that Zurich effectively should be required to disregard 
this policy term in Mr Hs circumstances.How the claim was handled
The claim was notified on 2 January 2020 and the confirmation of the type of motorbike 
received apparently on 5 January 2020. 
I think its reasonable for an insurer to check whether the circumstances of a claim fall within 
the terms of cover the policy provides. So, I think it was reasonable that Zurich couldnt 
confirm whether Mr H was covered or not immediately. And given the nature of the claim, I 
dont think there are grounds for criticising Zurich for checking that its position was right.     
Mr Hs family had raised the queries about the licensing provisions and Zurich made 
enquiries as to whether Mr H had been learning to ride a motorbike with the intention of 
gaining a full licence. It was confirmed he was not, although he had ridden other bikes, so 
this did not change the outcome. However, I think Zurich acted reasonably in making those 
enquiries and double checking its position before it declined the claim on 16 January 2020.  
Zurich confirmed its refusal of the claim again on 22 January 2020, having obtained further 
clarification from its U.K. underwriters about the licence provisions for motorbikes. In the 
meantime, Zurich offered other assistance with the repatriation process. I dont think there 
was any unreasonable delay but even if there was, I dont consider it would have made a 
significant difference to the position Mr H and his family were in. I say this because from the 
evidence available to me, Mr H was not apparently fit to travel before Zurich made its 
decision.
Mr Hs father informed Zurich on 10 January 2020 that the neurosurgeon who carried out a 
craniotomy on Mr H. had said that all being well, he was likely to be able to fly home around 
three weeks later (i.e. the beginning of February 2020).  Mr Hs father provided Zurich with 
an update on 21 January 2020, in which he said Mr H was still not fit to travel. Some further 
treatment was required after this and Mr H underwent another procedure on 26 January 
2020. I understand Mr H finally returned to the U.K. on 7 February 2020. Im not persuaded 
that there were any unreasonable delays on Zurichs part and even if I were, theres no 
evidence that Mr H would otherwise have been able to return to the UK earlier than he did. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, and despite my great sympathy for Mr H and his family, I 
do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Hs 
representatives to accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman