DRN-1465913
 
The complaint
Mr K complains about five loans he took out with Western Circle Limited, trading as 
Cashfloat, (WCL), which he said were unaffordable. 
What happened
Mr K took out five short term loans with WCL between March 2018 and March 2019.    Loans 
1 to 4 were repayable by three monthly instalments and Loan 5 was repayable by four 
monthly instalments. All the loans have been repaid. A summary of the loans is shown 
below:
Loan number Date of loan Repayment date Loan amount 
1.  3/3/18 25/5/18 £400
2.  25/5/18 28/7/18 £600
3.  28/7/18 26/10/18 £600
4.  2/2/19 7/2/19 £600
5.  23/3/19 26/7/19 £650
 
Mr K said that he was up to his neck in loans paying back early to borrow more. He also said 
that hed had to take sick leave with stress.
WCL explained in its final response letter that it had conducted a creditworthiness and 
affordability assessment on each loan application. Its calculations were based on the income 
and expenditure information that Mr K had provided in each of his loan applications, together 
with real-time data on the level of his monthly credit commitments received from credit 
reference agencies. These demonstrated that Mr K had sufficient net household income to 
comfortably cover the agreed repayments on each of his loans, without jeopardising his 
existing credit commitments and priority living expenses.
WCL also provided this service with more information about its assessment process. It said it 
tests a consumers monthly outgoings against statistical data. If this results in higher 
expense figures than those provided by the consumer, it uses the higher figures in its 
affordability assessment. WCL also said that the amount provided by Mr K for his credit 
commitments was verified using information from the credit reference agencies. Its 
affordability assessment took account of all of Mr Ks outstanding borrowings and other 
credit balances held by him. It noted that Mr K had also added his partners net income of 
between £1,230 and £1,270 in his applications. WCL said that its affordability check would only approve a loan if the total of all monthly credit repayments, to which an applicant is 
already committed, together with all other living expenses, left the applicant with sufficient 
disposable income to comfortably afford their repayments to WCL.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that for 
the later loans, WCL shouldve taken steps to build a more detailed picture of Mr Ks 
financial situation. But he hadnt seen anything in the information provided which suggested 
WCL wouldve known that Mr K wouldnt have been able to sustainably make the 
repayments needed for these loans. He also didnt think that the number of loans Mr K took, 
the amounts they were for or the period of time he was borrowing meant his loan history, on 
its own, shouldve shown WCL that he mightve been experiencing underlying financial 
difficulty.
Mr K disagreed and said he wasnt happy with the adjudicators findings and asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
When WCL lent to Mr K the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
WCL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that WCL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that WCL was required to establish 
whether Mr K could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
WCL did a number of checks before it lent to Mr K. It asked him for details of his monthly 
income and expenditure. Mr Ks declared income ranged from £2,683 to £2,883. Mr K also 
declared his partners income of between £1,200 and £1,270. His declared expenditure was 
between £1,896 and £1,996 before all the loans. 
WCL also checked Mr Ks credit file before agreeing to the loans. WCL hasnt provided us 
with a copy of its credit checks. But it did note that its credit check before Loan 5 showed 
that Mr K had a reasonable credit profile. He had no county court judgements and he wasnt 
bankrupt or in an individual voluntary arrangement or in a debt management plan.
I cant see that weve received a credit report from Mr K. So I cant say whether there was 
any adverse information on the report which I think should have caused additional concerns 
to WCL. 
Im aware that when a lender carries out a credit check, the information it sees doesnt 
usually provide the same level of detail that a borrowers credit report will and it isnt 
necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short 
term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So this may explain any 
differences between the information provided by WCLs credit checks and Mr Ks actual 
situation. 
Mr K needed to make three monthly loan repayments on Loans 1 to 3 with a highest 
repayment of around £305. Mr K declared his income as £2,683 and his regular expenditure 
as £1,896 before each of these loans. I dont think the repayment amounts for Loans 1 to 3 
were so large that its obvious they wouldve caused Mr K financial difficulty.
Given Mr Ks repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstance at the time, 
and Mr Ks repayment history, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for WCL to ask 
him for the amount of information that would be needed to show Loans 1 to 3 were 
unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything in the information Mr K provided before Loans 1 to 3 or the 
information WCL shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to 
start verifying what he was saying. So I dont think WCL was wrong to give Loans 1 to 3 to 
Mr K.
Mr K took out Loan 4 around three months after repaying Loan 3 and the amount borrowed 
was again £600. I think the amounts that Mr K needed to repay were still relatively moderate 
compared with the disposable income hed declared. So given Mr Ks repayment amounts, 
his repayment history  and what was apparent about his circumstances at the time, I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate for WCL to ask him for the amount of information that 
would be needed to show Loan 4 was unsustainable. So I dont think WCL was wrong to 
give Loan 4 to Mr K.I appreciate that Mr K said that he was in a never ending spiral of lending and drowning in it. 
But for the reasons given above, WCL may not have been aware of this from its credit 
checks. And unless Mr K had disclosed his other borrowing when hed asked for Loans 1 to 
4, I cant safely say that WCL would have found out about them with the proportionate 
checks it carried out that I think were reasonable.
But I do think, by the time Mr K asked for Loan 5, that WCL should have realised that it 
couldnt safely rely on the information he was providing about his finances. I think it should 
have taken steps from that point to independently verify Mr Ks true financial position before 
agreeing future loans. 
We asked Mr K for copies of his bank statements so we could see what better checks would 
have shown WCL. He didnt provide these to us. So Im not able to say that better checks 
would have shown WCL that it shouldnt have lent Loan 5 to Mr K. 
So I think the checks WCL did before agreeing the first four loans were proportionate. I do 
think more checks should have been done before the final loan, but I havent seen anything 
to persuade me those better checks would have resulted in WCL declining Mr K's 
application.
So, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing to Mr 
K. Im also sorry to hear his health has been affected by his financial situation. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman