DRN-4248843
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way that that Barclays Bank UK PLC has handled his bank 
account. 
Mr W wants Barclays to reinstate his overdraft facility, apologise and pay compensation.
What happened
Mr W has a business current account with Barclays. Mr W had an overdraft facility to help 
run his business which was secured by an agricultural charge.
Mr W says hes never defaulted on the overdraft facility and that until mid-2021, Barclays 
copied him into correspondence relating to a family business. Mr W says that this stopped in 
2021 and that Barclays never contacted him personally to request repayment of the 
overdraft facility. 
Mr W says that a family member ended up refinancing their business and used part of the 
money to repay Mr Ws overdraft facility. Mr W now owes the family member money and 
says Barclays didnt ask him for his own proposals about the overdraft repayment. Mr W 
points out that he is the sole account holder on his business account and should have been 
treated as a separate business to the family business.
Barclays didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said that from the banks perspective, the 
businesses of Mr W and his family member were linked and treated as one, with combined 
cash flows. Barclays says that all negotiations it had were with the family using the family 
members email address for correspondence. But that Mr W was present at the meetings so 
knew what was going on. 
Barclays said that as the business debts of Mr W and his family were considered as one, it 
was agreed that if the debts to Barclays were repaid, the parties involved could only keep in 
credit bank accounts.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ws complaint be upheld. He said that if Mr Ws 
family member hadnt repaid the overdraft, Mr W would have still owed money to Barclays so 
there wasnt a loss to Mr W. 
The investigator thought that Mr W was copied in to emails about the need to repay the 
overdraft. The investigator said that the overdraft was repayable on demand at any time. He 
thought that the businesses of Mr W and his family were intertwined with stock, land, and 
charges.
Mr W thinks Barclays has lied and acted against its code of conduct. He says the whole 
situation has taken its toll on the familys mental health. 
The investigator couldnt see what Barclays had lied about and told Mr W that as the 
complaint was about a business account, we could only consider the impact on the business 
not Mr Ws family personally. The investigator told Mr W that he could take his concerns 
about Barclays behaviour to the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
Mr W responded to say that the family member would send this service documentation to 
show that Barclays lied about his overdraft facility. And that Barclays has no legal charge 
over Mr Ws office and that Mr W has no legal rights over the adjoining land owned by his 
family.
Mr Ws family member provided copy emails. In one of them, Barclays asks the familys 
professional adviser for further financial information and asked them to split out overdrafts 
and bank loans and provide balance sheet breakdowns for each entity.  Another email 
confirmed that Barclays would need repayment in full for both Mr W and the family business.
The family member said the emails show that Barclays treated their and Mr Ws businesses 
separately and that they had to produce separate budgets and accounts.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me.
Our service is already dealing with a complaint made by Mr Ws family member. The 
evidence Ive seen on both complaint files, strongly suggests that as there was mixing of 
stock and trade across the businesses of Mr W and his family member, the businesses were 
linked and effectively treated as one entity for the purpose of considering the overall debt to 
Barclays. 
I accept that Barclays asked for detailed breakdowns for each entity which would split out 
overdrafts and bank loans. But Barclays sent the email to the professional adviser 
representing both Mr W and his familys business, which indicates that the professional 
adviser was dealing with both businesses. And Barclays request for split information doesnt 
mean that it wasnt going to consider the information as a whole when looking at the 
servicing of debt by Mr W and his family. Barclays also copied Mr W and his family member 
into the email to the professional adviser, so Mr W would have known that his business was 
being considered as part of the refinancing of the family business. So, it doesnt change my 
decision that Barclays treated Mr W and his family members businesses as being linked.
There is an email from Barclays to Mr Ws family member in August 2021 which made it 
clear that any refinancing by Mr Ws family member would need to include repayment in full 
for Mr Ws overdraft facility. Barclays evidence is that Mr W was at the meetings where 
finances were discussed and that it was usual practice for Barclays to write to Mr Ws family 
member as head of the family business. Barclays stance with Mr W and the family member 
was that if all debt was repaid  including that belonging to Mr W  then Barclays would 
continue to provide a credit only bank account. 
The terms of Mr Ws overdraft facility say that it is repayable in full on demand at any time. 
So, if Mr Ws family member hadnt already repaid the overdraft, Barclays could have 
requested immediate repayment from Mr W. As this hasnt happened, I cant see that Mr W 
has suffered a financial loss because of Barclays. 
Although I dont have evidence to suggest that Barclays wrote to Mr W personally to say that it was going to remove his overdraft facility, Im satisfied that Barclays made Mr W aware 
that his overdraft facility would be removed as part of the refinancing exercise carried out by 
his family. So, I dont find that Barclays removal of Mr Ws overdraft facility was unfair. 
Although Im sorry to hear about the personal impact felt by Mr W and his family, as I dont 
uphold his complaint, it follows that I dont require Barclays to reinstate the facility or pay 
compensation. 
In the future, if Mr W would prefer Barclays to contact him directly about his business 
account and he requests this, I would expect Barclays to honour his wishes.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman