DRN-3633601
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy because Lloyds Bank PLC did not reimburse the money they 
transferred to a fraudster after they fell victim to a safe account scam.
Background
In January 2021, Mr and Mrs L received a scam email purporting to be from a delivery firm 
and requesting payment for a parcel re-delivery. Mr and Mrs L provided their account details 
and in turn had unauthorised payments made on their account (which were refunded). 
However a few days later, Mrs L received a call from an individual claiming to be from Lloyds 
Bank. She was advised by this individual that there was fraudulent activity taking place on 
their joint account which needed action by setting up a new account and transferring their 
funds across. Unfortunately, unknown to Mr and Mrs L at the time, this individual was in fact 
a fraudster.
Mrs L has explained she had suspicions about the call and was unhappy throughout, so 
queried how she could be sure that this was in fact Lloyds she was speaking to. The 
fraudster told her to check the number they were calling from against the number on the 
back of her debit card, which matched. Not being aware that number spoofing existed, this 
reassured Mrs L to proceed with the call.
Mrs L made a payment transfer of £1,000 from her joint account to what she thought was a 
new account set up with another banking provider. Mrs L has explained she questioned why 
the account was with another provider and was told banks help each other in these 
situations. While Mrs L thought it was strange that Lloyds wasnt able to resolve these issues 
in house, she acknowledges shes not an expert in banking processes, so took the 
fraudsters word that this was the correct process.
After making the payment, the fraudster asked to speak to Mr L to protect his own sole 
account. While Mr L was on the phone, Mrs L conducted some research online which 
heightened her suspicions. She then called Lloyds who confirmed they had sadly fallen 
victim to a scam.
Mr and Mrs L kept the fraudster on the phone for around another 15 minutes while they tried 
to contact Lloyds fraud department in the hopes of catching the fraudster. However after 
hours of waiting on hold they were unable to speak to anyone and had to call back the 
following morning when Lloyds fraud line was open to log a claim.
Lloyds investigated Mr and Mrs Ls fraud claim and considered its obligations to provide 
them with a refund. Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have 
been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. Lloyds 
says one or more of those exceptions applies in this case.
Lloyds has said Mr and Mrs L made the payment without having a reasonable basis for 
believing it was a genuine payment. Lloyds considers that Mr and Mrs L ought to have done 
more to verify the legitimacy of the caller before making it, based on concerns they had 
during the call. 
Theyve also said they provided an effective warning that matched the scam Mr and Mrs L 
were falling victim to.  The warning read as follows:
Did we call and tell you to move your money to another account?
Mr and Mrs L were required to answer yes or no. Mrs L has explained she initially clicked 
yes, but then was persuaded by the fraudster to select no instead. Lloyds has confirmed 
that when no is selected, follow up information will state:
Well never call you and ask you to move your money to another account.
If a caller asks you to do this, its a scam.
Lloyds has also said that during the payment process, when providing the account details 
and name, Mrs L was presented with a confirmation of payee alert that stated:
That name doesnt match the account number. You should call the payee and check these 
details are right:
Name on the account
Account number
We may not be able to recover your money if it goes to the wrong account.
Remember: we will never ask you to move your money to a safe or holding account.
Lloyds did however accept that the payment Mr and Mrs L made was out of their usual 
spending pattern, so agreed to accept 50% liability for the payment on the basis that it 
couldve done more to protect Mr and Mrs L from financial harm from fraud. 
Mr and Mrs L feel they should be refunded in full and so have referred their complaint to us. 
An investigator looked into the complaint and didnt consider Mr and Mrs L had a reasonable 
basis for believing this was a legitimate payment. He therefore considered the 50% split 
liability offer Lloyds had made was fair. As Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the investigators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Lloyds 
should have fully reimbursed Mr and Mrs L under the provisions of the CRM Code and 
whether it ought to have done more to protect Mr and Mrs L from the possibility of financial 
harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr and Mrs L were tricked into making the payment. They 
thought they were making a genuine account transfer to keep their money safe and that 
didnt happen. But this isnt enough, in and of itself, for Mr and Mrs L to receive a refund 
under the CRM Code. The Code places a level of care on Mr and Mrs L too. 
The CRM Code 
As Ive mentioned, Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances and it is for Lloyds to establish that a customer failed to meet their 
requisite level of care under one of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning 
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate 
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
In this case, Lloyds has already accepted 50% liability of Mr and Mrs Ls claim to 
acknowledge it didnt do enough to protect them. However I think Lloyds has been able to 
establish that it may choose not to fully reimburse Mr and Mrs L under the terms of the CRM 
Code. Im persuaded one of the listed exceptions to reimbursement under the provisions of 
the CRM Code applies.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, I think the concerns Lloyds has 
raised about the legitimacy of the transaction Mr and Mrs L made are enough to support its 
position that they failed to meet their requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the 
payment they made. I dont think Mr and Mrs L had a reasonable basis for believing the 
person they transacted with was legitimate. Ill explain why.
I understand that Mrs L was called on a spoofed telephone number and I dont 
underestimate the impact this mustve had in reassuring her that this was a genuine call from 
Lloyds. However, I still need to consider whether, after this initial reassurance, there were 
enough other flags that ought to have led Mr and Mrs L to have reasonable doubts and 
conduct further checks before proceeding.Mrs L has acknowledged that she was unhappy the whole way through the call with the 
fraudster and very suspicious by the time she was told a new account number and sort code 
were required. She questioned certain things she was being told, such as why her husbands 
personal account would also be at risk, and accepts she wondered why Lloyds wasnt able 
to sort fraud issues out in-house, rather than rely on other banking providers. However, she 
added she doesnt know how the banking world works so proceeded on the instruction of the 
fraudster. I therefore think that despite the impact the spoofed number clearly had in this 
scam, Mrs L did still have some doubts during the call about its legitimacy.
Mrs L recalls seeing a warning message during the payment process asking her to confirm if 
anyone had called and asked her to make a payment. Shes explained she initially clicked 
yes, but then was persuaded by the fraudster to click no. Mrs L has raised that Lloyds 
should present a warning about safe account scams prior to this question, as then she never 
would have answered no. She also disputes that any further guidance was provided by 
Lloyds, after she selected no or she wouldnt have proceeded. However Lloyds has 
presented evidence of the warnings in use at the time of this scam and how they wouldve 
been presented to Mr and Mrs L. Based on the audit trail evidence Ive been provided with, 
and the fact Mrs L does recall the first part of this warning being presented, Im satisfied that 
what Lloyds has provided is the relevant message Mrs L saw and that, having clicked no to 
the warning question, Mrs L still wouldve been presented with a message advising that 
Lloyds will never ask customers to move money to another account.
I also understand Mrs L doesnt recall seeing a message advising her that the account 
details shed been provided with didnt match the account name (as despite what she was 
told by the fraudster, the account she sent money to was never in her own name). However, 
again Lloyds has provided audit trail evidence that demonstrates this check was completed 
and that details provided didnt match the intended account. Im therefore confident this 
information was presented to Mrs L during the payment process. This warning also 
highlights that Lloyds will never ask its customers to move money to a safe account.
Overall, while I dont dispute the power a spoofed number wouldve had on Mr and Mrs Ls 
decision making, I think the red flags that followed this combined, as well as the doubts they 
already had, were enough that Mr and Mrs L ought to have reasonably made further 
enquiries before proceeding with making the payment. Mrs L has explained that she did call 
Lloyds immediately after her involvement with the fraudsters and was told this was a 
fraudulent call. I therefore think this reasonably couldve been done before payments were 
made towards the scam.
I understand Mr and Mrs L are very frustrated that despite keeping the fraudsters on the 
phone for over 15 minutes after uncovering the scam, they were unable to contact Lloyds in 
order for any traces or blocks to be applied to the beneficiary account. I also entirely 
understand how upsetting it must have been for Mr and Mrs L to not be able to make contact 
with anyone that evening to log a fraud claim. Ive thought about whether the time taken to 
contact Lloyds has had any impact on Lloyds ability to recover any of the funds Mr and Mrs 
L lost to the fraudster.
When reporting a scam to a bank, wed expect that bank to contact the receiving account 
provider without delay, to make them aware of the fraud, so that receiving account provider 
can attempt to block any further payments being made from the account. Had Lloyds spoke 
to Mr and Mrs L while still on the phone to the fraudster, I dont think there would be anything 
further Lloyds wouldve been able to do other than raise a claim with the receiving bank  
once transfers are made from an account, theres no way for that bank to recall them. In 
terms of tracing an account, this can be done quite simply by the receiving account provider 
using the account details the funds were sent to  so I dont think there was anything further Lloyds couldve obtained from Mr and Mrs L while on the phone to the fraudster that would 
have helped in the recovery of their funds.
I have however thought about whether further funds wouldve been recovered had Lloyds 
provided a quicker response to Mr and Mrs L and logged the claim the same evening the 
scam occurred. Having reviewed the available evidence, I can see the payment Mrs L made 
was at 20:33. Having contacted the beneficiary account provider it was sent to, I can see the 
funds were removed from that account at 20:47  so 14 minutes later. Unfortunately this 
means that for any of Mr and Mrs Ls funds to have been recoverable, Mr and Mrs L 
wouldve needed to contact Lloyds, have them establish that theyd been the victim of a 
scam, log the claim and contact the beneficiary account provider all within this timeframe, as 
well as for the beneficiary account provider to take action. Sadly this just wouldnt be feasible 
within a 14 minute window  particularly as Mrs L hadnt established this was even a scam 
herself until around 21:20. So while I truly sympathise with Mr and Mrs L for the distress the 
delays caused them when contacting Lloyds, I dont think it had any impact on what funds 
were available for recovery. 
Overall, to summarise, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Mr and Mrs L met their 
requisite level of care when making the payment to the fraudster and I therefore think a 50% 
split of liability between Lloyds and Mr and Mrs L is a fair and reasonable outcome for their 
fraud claim under the CRM code.
I do sympathise with Mr and Mrs L as theyve clearly been the victim of a cruel scam. But the 
circumstances of the case and the evidence available lead me to find that they should also 
be held liable for some of those losses incurred.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman