DRN-2316354
The complaint
Mr L complains about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds (AA) decision to not 
carry out full repairs following his car insurance claim. Mr L wants AA to repair his car to the 
same condition it was in prior to the accident.  
What happened
Mr L was involved in an accident where the third-party admitted liability. Mr L says his cars 
bodywork was repaired but he was told his car wasnt roadworthy as the engine 
management light was on. Mr L says he spoke with AA who told him it was his responsibility 
to get this issue repaired. Mr L says his car was towed to a garage who told him the left-
hand intercooler had split which caused the turbo to split. Mr L says this fault is to the same 
area of his car damaged by the accident.    
Mr L complained and AA responded and said the issue wasnt accident/workmanship 
related. They said they had informed Mr L of the process of getting a main dealer report 
should he wish to pursue this issue. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr L. She thought AA hadnt acted unfairly in refusing 
to carry out the repairs. Mr L disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr L will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mr Ls car insurance policy document. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and says he is covered for damage to his car. It also says, under the heading 
What is not covered, Wear and tear or depreciation and Mechanical, electrical, electronic 
or computer fault, failure, malfunction, or breakdown.  
I can see AA carry out repairs to Mr Ls cars bodywork but are told by the garage that, 
although the car is drivable, there is dust in the air flow meter which can cause the car to go 
into limp mode after a long drive. AA feel this issue isnt related to the accident. So, given 
that AA say the issue which Mr L complains about isnt covered under the policy, Ive looked 
at whether they have acted fairly and reasonably in taking this view. 
The garage who carried out the repairs say, while they were taking Mr Ls car to the MOT 
centre, it went into limp mode. They turned the car back on during the MOT and everything 
was ok, so the car passed. While taking the car back, it again went into limp mode. The 
garage carried out a diagnostic test and a fault came up as MAF air flow meter. 
Claim notes provided by AA show that the garage confirmed dust wasnt an issue. I can see 
that AA then explain to Mr L the issue relates to a faulty part so its a wear and tear issue  
which isnt covered under the policy. AA then explain to Mr L he can take his car to a main 
dealer for a report if he wishes to pursue the issue.  
I can see Mr L has provided a report from an independent garage which says that, although 
Mr Ls car would start, it couldnt move under its own power. They say it has an obvious
engine fault, and this is confirmed by the message in the instrument cluster. They say, after 
diagnosing and testing the car, they found the left-hand turbo had suffered serious damage 
and was not working, plus blocking the inlet air path. They say, Mr L told them his car had a 
front-end repair due to an accident. They say, 
Although we cannot say what has occurred to cause this fault, what we can say, is 
at the time of the accident and previous to this the fault cannot have been present as 
[Mr L] would have been unable to drive vehicle to accident location. Therefore we 
can summarise that the damage happened at the time of accident or in the care of 
the repairer.  
Insurers often appoint engineers experienced in this type of work to look at any faults, and 
thats what AA did. I think its a fair thing to do  and its reasonable for AA to rely on the 
engineers comments when deciding how to deal with the claim. The engineers report notes 
the impact was to the right-hand front area of Mr Ls car and says, The damage was 
superficial and involved no intrusion into the engine compartment. The engineer concludes, 
In summary the impact damage to the vehicle was to the right hand side and only 
superficial and, in my opinion it would not likely cause damage to the left hand turbo 
located the opposite side of the engine. I note the Insured was advised to seek a 
Main Dealer report which would normally be supported with a full on board diagnostic 
report using the manufacturers equipment, showing fault codes and possibly time 
lines. In my opinion, although unlikely to be related to the impact or repairs, without 
proper diagnostics and disclosure of the damage it is not possible to determine the 
actual cause or liability. I would still advise a Main Dealer diagnostic and report 
before the latter could realistically be apportioned. 
I cant see theres any evidence here which gives an absolute guarantee on the cause of the 
issue. The engineer instructed by AA doesnt think its likely the impact from the accident 
caused damage to the turbo. Ive also taken account of the report provided by Mr L from an 
independent garage which says the fault cannot have been present before the accident. Its 
clear there is a difference in opinion here between the two experts and Ive also taken into 
account that both are independent. My role however is to decide whether AA have acted 
fairly and reasonably.  
The engineer describes the damage as superficial. In order for a turbo to be damaged, I 
think its reasonable to expect the impact to have been severe. That doesnt appear to be the 
case here as the engineer didnt find there to have been any intrusion into the engine 
compartment. From the information Ive seen, it doesnt appear the car is undrivable, as it 
made it to the MOT centre and passed.  Mr Ls cars mileage is over 81,000 and is over ten 
years old. So, taking this into account, and the engineers findings, I dont think its 
unreasonable for AA to take the view the fault is as a result of wear and tear.   
An engineer is qualified to comment on damage to a car so it was reasonable for AA to take 
into account the engineers findings to assist their decision on how to settle the claim. The 
report from the engineer shows they reviewed the repair process and also considered the 
independent garages findings. 
I think the information the engineer considered is relevant to carry out an assessment and to 
then form an opinion. So, taking this into account, I cant say AA have acted unfairly in relying on the engineers findings to assess whether the fault with Mr Ls car falls within the 
policy. 
The report from the independent garage says the damage happened at the time of the 
accident or in the care of the repairer, but I think its important to note they dont specify what 
has caused the fault. So, while I have taken this into consideration, Im not persuaded by the 
findings. I say this because theres more evidence which supports the fault not being 
attributable to the accident. The engineer feels its not possible to determine the precise 
cause of the issue without a full on-board diagnostic report using the manufacturers 
equipment showing fault codes and time lines. I can see this is what AA have proposed to 
Mr L as a way forward. I think AA have taken fair and reasonable steps to consider Mr Ls 
claim and reached a decision based on expert opinion. And, given that I havent seen any 
evidence to persuade me there has been an error by AA, I dont uphold the complaint. 
I understand Mr L says his car was well maintained and he didnt have any problems. And 
now, following the accident, which wasnt his fault, hes been left without a car. I dont doubt 
this has been upsetting for Mr L but I cant say AA have acted unfairly. They have relied on 
expert evidence to support their decision and its not unreasonable for them to take the view 
the fault is down to wear and tear  and this falls outside the scope of the policy. AA have 
proposed a way forward which I think is reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman