DRN-4199155
The complaint
Mr Es complained that TenetLime Ltd failed to record his answers to a health and lifestyle 
questionnaire accurately  which resulted in the insurer declining the terminal illness claim 
he made on his policy on the basis of misrepresentation.
What happened
In autumn 2020, Mr E consulted TenetLime to help him find life cover.  He had a budget of 
around £20 per month.  TenetLime took him through an application to purchase a policy from 
an insurer Ill call B.  B accepted the application and sold Mr E an increasing life insurance 
policy, providing an initial sum assured of £25,514 for a monthly premium of £22.50.
In 2022, Mr E was very sadly diagnosed with terminal cancer.  So he made a claim on the 
policy he had with B.
B declined Mr Es claim, cancelled the policy, and refunded the premiums he paid them.  B 
said this was because Mr E hadnt answered questions about his health and lifestyle 
accurately when he applied.  They said Mr E hadnt told them that he had raised blood 
pressure  but their investigations showed a history of this.  And they noted Mr Es medical 
records also showed there was an issue with his heart, raised cholesterol and blood sugar 
and abnormal liver function.
B said theyd not investigated these other conditions but reserved the right to do so.  And 
they said that, if Mr E had answered the question about his raised blood pressure accurately, 
they wouldnt have sold him the policy.
Mr E had told TenetLime about his raised blood pressure.  So he complained that theyd not 
accurately recorded his answers to the questions  which resulted in him being left without 
life cover when he needed it.  And he said hed been deprived of the chance to buy 
alternative cover, such as over 50s plans, which werent underwritten.  Mr E said TenetLime 
should compensate him by paying the value of the policy at that point (£28,209), as well as 
interest.
TenetLime accepted their agent had been told about Mr Es blood pressure and hadnt 
recorded Mr Es answers accurately.  But they said Mr E had given inaccurate answers to 
questions about his heart and raised cholesterol, which they said would have contributed to 
Bs decision.  TenetLime offered Mr E £500 for the shortcomings in their service.
Mr E wasnt satisfied with TenetLimes response and brought his complaint to our service.  
Our investigator considered the matter and concluded that, while TenetLime should pay the 
£500 theyd offered, they didnt need to do more than this to resolve Mr Es complaint.
The investigator explained hed thought about what position Mr E would have been in had 
TenetLime done nothing wrong.  He said he would have known B wouldnt provide him with 
cover.  And he was satisfied from his enquiries of TenetLime that it was unlikely any other 
insurer would have done so either.  
The investigator noted that TenetLime sold over 50s plans which werent medically 
underwritten.  But these usually have a moratorium period so he couldnt say whether these 
would have paid out or whether the premiums would have been refunded  which would 
have left Mr E in an identical position.  And he noted Mr E would have had to buy a number 
of policies to get the level of cover he had with B, which would have cost more than Bs 
premiums.
So while the investigator didnt think TenetLime should pay Mr E what he may have been 
able to claim under the policy, he did think he should be compensated for losing the 
opportunity to make alternative arrangements.  He thought £500 was a reasonable amount 
of compensation for that.
Mr E didnt agree with our investigators view.  He said that a number of over 50s policies 
only have a one year moratorium and would have provided an appropriate level of cover.  
And he said he would have been prepared to pay a higher premium to get the cover he 
wanted, had he known that was the option available to him.
The complaints now been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Es complaint.  But Im not requiring TenetLime to pay 
him more than the £500 theyve already offered him.  I know that decision will be upsetting 
for Mr E and Im sorry about that.   Ill explain how Ive come to my conclusion.
I was extremely sorry to hear about Mr Es current state of health.  And I understand why he 
feels TenetLime should pay him the sum he would have received from B had he made a 
successful claim.  
But I could only say TenetLime should pay that amount if I were satisfied that the only 
reason Mr Es claim was declined was because their agent filled in the form incorrectly.  
Unfortunately for Mr E, I dont think I can reasonably say that.
Because of his current state of health, Mr E has had the support of a representative to bring 
his complaint to our service and our correspondence has been with them.  The 
representative provided Bs response and said this showed theyd declined Mr Es claim only 
on the basis of the way the questions about his blood pressure were answered.
Ive read Bs letter.  And I dont agree with what the representative has said.  While the only 
specific question B has said should have been answered differently is the one relating to 
raised blood pressure, the letter makes clear they were reserving their position in relation to 
Mr Es other medical issues.  So I think its reasonable to say that, had they been satisfied 
on the blood pressure issue, theyd have made enquiries about these other conditions.  And 
TenetLimes response to the complaint identifies that Mr E provided inaccurate answers to 
their agent about those issues.
So I cant reasonably say that, but for TenetLimes shortcomings, B would have accepted Mr 
Es claim.  And that means I cant say they should pay Mr E the amount B would have paid 
in the event of a successful claim.
Nor am I satisfied, were it not for TenetLimes actions, Mr E would have got an equivalent 
sum of cover elsewhere.  I agree with our investigator its unlikely Mr E would have been able to buy a medically underwritten policy elsewhere.  But Mr E says, had he known this, he 
would have shopped around for alternatives, such as over 50s plans, which arent 
underwritten.  
Ive thought carefully about this. Whole of life policies (of which over 50s plans are an 
example) generally provide a relatively modest amount of cover when someone dies, in 
return for a monthly premium.  The exact level provided depends on the premiums paid, 
which usually vary according to the buyers age and smoker status.
The only evidence of affordability I have is that Mr E was paying B a premium of £22.50.  I 
understand this was in line with what he told them he could afford.  TenetLime confirmed to 
the investigator that, for £22, he could have bought an over 50s plan from them, which 
provided cover of £3,667.  Thats significantly less than the £25,000-plus cover he had with 
B.  
I appreciate Mr E could have bought several policies.  But that would have cost significantly 
more than the budget he gave TenetLime.  Im not persuaded that, even accepting Mr Es 
statement he would have been prepared to increase what he paid, he would have increased 
his premium payments to achieve an equivalent amount of cover  which, based on the 
information from TenetLime, could have been in the region of £150 per month.  And without 
a reasonable degree of certainty about what cover Mr E would have purchased, I dont think 
its fair to say TenetLime should pay him a sum equivalent to a particular level of cover.
But, like our investigator, I do think TenetLime should pay Mr E a sum to compensate him for 
losing the opportunity to make alternative arrangements.  Having reviewed our published 
compensation approach, I agree the £500 is within what is fair and reasonable in this case.  
So I think TenetLime should pay £500 to Mr E. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Es complaint about directing TenetLime 
Ltd to pay him the £500 compensation theyve previously offered him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman