DRN-2714663
The complaint
The estate of Mr P complains that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) didnt follow a fair 
and reasonable process following Mr Ps passing. The Estates options werent clearly 
discussed and a law of property act receiver (LPA receiver) was appointed to take 
possession and sell the property without sufficient notice. As such the estate was denied the 
opportunity to sell the property at a more competitive price. The estate and its beneficiaries 
have suffered financial loss as a result.
What happened
The late Mr P held a buy to let mortgage with TMW. He sadly passed away in April 2018 and
arrears started to accrue on the account. The death was reported to TMW soon after.
Ms W says it was her intention to maintain the monthly mortgage payments, but she couldnt
access the bank account the rent was being paid into until probate was granted. She was in
regular contact with TMW in the meantime and made some payments, but arrears continued
to accrue.
TMW said it couldnt discuss the account with Ms W until probate was granted. TMW 
appears to have received grant of probate on 3 June 2019 and Ms Ws details were 
recorded on the system later that month. Her address was incorrectly entered.
LPA receivers were appointed on 14 June 2019. TMW sent the LPA confirmation letter to the
wrong address. Ms W was made aware of the appointment through the tenants. 
Ms W made contact on 24 June 2019 following notice of receivership through the tenants at 
the property. It was at that time options to redeem through sale or a re-mortgage were 
discussed. Ms W asked why she wasnt offered these options sooner. The agent said shed 
refer Ms Ws concerns to a manager on the basis that shed not been receiving 
correspondence - so she could arrange more time for Ms W to explore her options in the 
circumstances. A call back was arranged to update Ms W following conversations with a 
manager. Her correct address and mobile number were updated on the system.
TMWs notes suggest that LPA receivers could not be de-instructed at this time, it was for 
the LPA receiver to decide and advise on how best to proceed. TMW didnt call Ms W back 
as agreed. Instead it asked the LPA receiver to call her. The LPA receivers confirmed its 
appointment and the sale process commenced  completing in February 2020.
Ms W, on behalf of the estate of Mr P complained to TMW about the lack of communication,
lack of options available to the estate and about the customer service provided by the LPA
receiver. TMW responded to her complaint in July 2019. It admitted it got things wrongs and
offered £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Unhappy with TMWs response, the estate of Mr P bought its complaint to our service. An
investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms W on behalf of the estate of Mr P disagreed with our investigators opinion. In summary
she said:
- TMW did not offer the same concessions as lenders on other properties that formed 
part of the estate;
- TMW unfairly appointed LPA receivers. It was sending letters to the wrong address 
and assumed the estate was not co-operating; and
- The estate was denied the opportunity to sell the property at the best possible price.
Our investigator considered Ms Ws comments as representative of the estate but explained 
why his opinion remained unchanged. 
This matter was then passed to me for a decision. I issued a provisional decision on 
1 March 2021 and an extract of my provisional findings is below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important for me to set out that when a complaint is brought by the estate of a deceased
person there are limitations on the types of losses we can consider and any remedy.
The rules set by the financial regular determine who is eligible to bring a complaint to our
service. The rules say the late Mr Ps estate is an eligible complainant.
Ms W represents the estate but that doesnt make her a customer of the business, or an
eligible complainant under our rules. So, Im unable to consider any trouble and upset or
distress she feels shes been put to, as shes not the eligible complainant. Weve no power
to order that she be compensated personally for that.
We can award compensation to Mr Ps estate if we believe it has suffered financial loss, but
we cant award compensation to the estate for upset, as its not possible for an estate to
suffer upset.
Its not in dispute that TMW initially recorded Ms Ws wrong address so correspondence
didnt reach her. TMW has admitted it got things wrong. So, I have to decide is whether the
things it has done to put things right, including the amount of compensation its offered, is fair
and reasonable in the circumstances.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think TMWs offer fairly compensates the estate for the
consequences of its actions and for the loss caused. As I will explain.
TMW knows there is little it can do until it receives a grant of probate. But its intention was to
appoint LPA receivers almost as soon as the death was reported, despite Ms W letting it
know she was in the process of obtaining grant of probate.
Whist the account was falling into arrears, that was the inevitable position before Ms W
obtained probate and in view of the lack of communication from TMW. If TMW had acted
fairly and reasonably it ought to have listened to Ms W. If it had done so it would have
understood that probate was imminent and that she intended to sell the property and that
would be sufficient to repay the mortgage including any arrears  and that she was prepared
to bring the account up to date in the meantime.
Of course, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for TMW to allow the arrears to spiral out of
control. But in the circumstances TMW ought to have given Ms W more time to consider her
options. LPA receivers were appointed the week after receiving probate, without sufficient
contact made with the executrix to discuss the account and the estates intentions. In those
circumstances it wasnt fair or reasonable to appoint LPA receivers when it did.Ms Ws says her intention was to take ownership of the sale herself, to save the estate 
incurring unnecessary costs. She also complains that the property wasnt sold at the most 
competitive price.
The property was presented onto the market on the 13 September 2019 at an asking price of
£515,000 (in line with a RICS valuation). The property was marketed with the option of
purchasing with the tenant in situ or with vacant possession. During the first four weeks of
marketing two viewings were conducted with one applicant. No offer was made.
It was noted a larger three-bedroom semi-detached house was being marketed on the
neighbouring street. The property was in a similar condition as the subject, at an asking price
of £499,950. A sale was agreed for the sum of £480,000.
The higher asking price of £515,000.00 was tested which failed to attract a purchaser. And,
in light of the comparable, the asking price was reduced to £499,950 on the 17th October
2019. A further viewing took place.
In early November 2019 an offer of £475,00.00 was made subject to vacant possession. The
surveyors recommendation was to accept the offer  so it was accepted. Later that month
notice was served on the tenants to vacate the property by 24 January 2020.
On 16 January 2020 the tenant confirmed she has secured another property in the area but
wasnt in a position to vacate as she was unable fund the security deposit and first months
rent. £3,000 was paid to the tenant as an incentive to vacate the property by the required
date. These funds were included in the LPA receivers fees and deducted from completion
funds. The sale completed in February 2020.
TMW was entitled to rely on the professional opinion of the RICS valuation. I dont think it
was unreasonable for it to subsequently reduce the asking price after the first four weeks
based on the comparison to a recent sale of a similar neighbouring property. One further
viewing took place and an offer was made around a month later, £25,000 less than the
asking price. The buyers were proceedable and so the purchase was chain free.
As part of the possession process, lenders have to balance obtaining a good price within a
reasonable period  as interest continues to accrue whilst the property is selling. I dont think
it was unreasonable for TMW to accept the offer of £475,000. I say this because two months
had passed and only two applicants had viewed the property  one of those was referred by
Ms W. The offer was also roughly in line with the comparison sought.
So, to summarise, when considering everything, I think LPA receivers were appointed
prematurely and in unfair circumstances. As such I think the estate should be refunded all
costs in relation to the appointment of LPA receivers (including any retained rent and the
incentive payment made to the tenants) and administration costs that fall outside of the usual
expenses the estate would have incurred during a private sale  such as estate agent and
conveyancing fees.
I think the property was sold for a fair price so do not order TMW do anything more in
relation this.
Ive noted everything Ms W has said about how shes been directly impacted as a result of
the situation. But for the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to consider or award any
compensation to Ms W or the estate for distress and inconvenience caused.
What I think TMW should do to put things right - so farFor the reasons I have explained, my provisional decision is that I propose to uphold this
complaint and require The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc to:
-pay the estate of Mr P all charges incurred as part of the sale, as listed in the 
completion statement, less estate agent and conveyancing costs that the estate 
would have incurred during a private sale;
-pay the estate of Mr P all charges incurred as a result of the LPA receivers 
appointment (including any retained rent and the incentive payment made to the 
tenant); and
-Pay 8% basic interest on this amount per year from the date of completion until the 
date of settlement.
** If The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs
(HMRC) to take off income tax from the interest, it should tell Ms W, as representative of
the estate, how much its taken off. It should also give Ms W a certificate showing this if she
asks for one, so the estate can reclaim the tax from HMRC, if appropriate.
Ms W and TMW both responded to the provisional decision. Ms W agreed with it but made 
some comments in relation to TMWs overall processes. Our investigator responded to Ms 
W explaining what I can and cant look into as part of my decision. He explained that as our 
service doesnt regulate financial businesses, its not our role to tell TMW how to set out its 
procedures. Thats the job of the financial conduct authority (FCA).
TMW didnt agree, in summary it said:
- Four letters were sent to Ms Ws correct address between June 2018 and March 
2019 asking her to provide probate and to make contact to discuss redeeming the 
account;
- Ms W made contact twice in 2018 to make payments, following the collections letters 
sent to the late Mr Ps correspondence address. During a call in October 2018 Ms W 
agreed to continue making payments and said she hoped to get probate by the end 
of the month;
- Miss W sent the Grant of probate (dated 1 March 2019) on 23 May 2019. It was at 
this time Ms Ws address was amended to the wrong address;
- During a call on 24 June 2019 TMW explained the account needed to be redeemed 
through sale or a re-mortgage;
- Ms W was previously notified of TMWs intention to appoint receivers  but did not 
maintain payments or keep TMW updated regarding redemption; and 
- When the receivers were instructed, collections notes state the property may be 
passed back for internal review, however when Ms W spoke with the receivers, she 
explained she was dealing with three other properties and receivers had been 
instructed on one of them too.
Ill now proceed to issue my final decision on this case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also given careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my 
decision, including those in response to the provisional decision.Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as set out in my provisional decision 
and for the same reasons. Ill now address the specific points TMW has raised in response 
to the provisional decision.
Whilst TMW did write to Ms W on a few occasions after she reported the late Mr Ps death, 
I dont think it was fair or reasonable for TMW to expect her to be able to make a decision 
about the property until probate was granted and she was fully able to administer the 
estate. 
Ms W did make some contact with TMW on a few occasions before probate was issued. It 
appears she was restricted to the amount TMW could discuss with her over the phone 
without probate in place. So even if she expressed her intentions for redemption sooner, 
TMW knows no action could be taken until probate was granted. And during this time 
arrears were inevitable.
For these reasons, its what happened after probate was provided thats most relevant 
here. TMWs contact notes show its land and deeds department received probate on 30 
May 2019 and it notified collections of this on 3 June 2019. Its at that time Ms Ws address 
was incorrectly amended. 
Following receipt of probate, TMW didnt make sufficient contact with Ms W to discuss the 
estates intention or allow her a reasonable amount of time to consider the estates options 
before appointing receivers. 
A letter with intention to instruct LPA receivers was sent on 28 May 2019 prior to TMW 
receiving probate. This, and subsequent letters prior to and including the appointment of 
receivers on 16 June 2019 were not sent to Ms Ws address, so she wasnt reasonably 
aware of TMWs intentions. As far as she was concerned, she was waiting to hear back 
from TMW following probate being provided. Ms W also provided her mobile number and 
email address at the same time as probate. TMW made no attempt to try an alternative 
means of contact before instructing receivers. 
On 19 June 2019 the occupier of the address that was in receipt of the letters meant for Ms 
W called TMW to report mail being sent to the wrong address. Again, no attempt was 
made to contact Ms W via alternative means. 
Ms W called TMW on 24 June 2019 after being notified of possession by the tenants at the 
property. Its only at this time that redemption options were properly explained to Ms W. Ms 
W complained about the lack of contact and information from TMW to date. The agent 
acknowledged the errors on TMWs part and agreed a call back to discuss her options. 
This didnt happen and instead Ms W received a call from the receiver, confirming its 
appointment. 
During conversations that day, Ms W persistently said that she had not been given 
sufficient time or notice to consider the estates options and she complained about how 
overwhelming her whole experience with TMW had been. Ms W couldnt redeem the 
mortgage so her only option was to sell it. Whilst it appears Ms W accepted that the 
property would go into receivership and be sold on behalf of the estate, Im persuaded she 
only agreed to this after being told she had no other option. 
I think despite knowing that things had gone wrong during its process, TMW made no 
attempt to put things right for Ms W. More time to consider her options was not given as 
agreed and instead the matter was pursued by the receivers. In its final response letter, TMW upheld Ms Ws complaint and accepted the level of service 
she received on this date didnt meet its standards. TMW also accepted that in light of Ms 
Ws feedback, it would be reconsidering its probate process. Whilst I can consider the 
impact of TMWs service in relation to individual complaints and in this case the impact on 
the estate, I do not have the power to direct it to change its overall processes.
Putting things right
TMW shouldve communicated better with Ms W during the process of probate. It should 
have clearly explained the estates options following probate and allowed her time to 
consider options. I think LPA receivers were appointed prematurely and in unfair 
circumstances. As such I think the estate should be refunded all costs in relation to the 
appointment of LPA receivers (including any retained rent and the incentive payment made 
to the tenants) and administration costs that fall outside of the usual expenses the estate 
would have incurred during a private sale  such as estate agent and conveyancing fees.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.and require 
The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc to:
- pay the estate of Mr P all charges incurred as part of the sale, as listed in the 
completion statement, less estate agent and conveyancing costs that the estate 
would have incurred during a private sale;
- pay the estate of Mr P all charges incurred as a result of the LPA receivers 
appointment (including any retained rent and the incentive payment made to the 
tenant); and
- Pay 8% basic interest on this amount per year from the date of completion until the 
date of settlement.
** If The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs
(HMRC) to take off income tax from the interest, it should tell Ms W, as representative of
the estate, how much its taken off. It should also give Ms W a certificate showing this if she
asks for one, so the estate can reclaim the tax from HMRC, if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman