DRN-4073730
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Curve UK Limited processed a refund to an incorrect card.
What happened
Mr L made a payment of £85.93 for grocery items from a well-known supermarket using his 
Curve account. Mr L had cause to return some of the grocery items to the supermarket and 
he received a refund of £4 to his Curve account because of this. However, Curve didnt then 
return that £4 to the debit card Mr L had used to make the payment, but instead processed 
the £4 refund to a credit account Mr L was in the process of closing and which hed already 
deleted from his Curve app. Mr L wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Curve responded to Mr L and explained why the mistake had happened. Curve also credited 
Mr L with £4 to his Curve account to cover the misdirected refund and gave Mr L the 
information needed to recover the £4 from the credit provider it had been incorrectly sent to, 
should he wish to do so. Mr L wasnt satisfied with Curves response, so he referred his 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that because Curve had 
processed the £4 to a credit account which Mr L had been in the process of closing, that 
account had been put into a position of credit which had delayed the closure of the account 
and inconvenienced Mr L. Because of this, our investigator felt that this complaint should be 
upheld in Mr Ls favour and that Curve should make a payment of £50 to Mr L as 
compensation for the inconvenience hed incurred as a result of Curves mistake.
Curve didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Curve have explained that they use an auto-refund system and has provided details as to 
how the logic that determines which card a refund is processed to works. And so, I can 
understand why Curve refunded the £4 to the incorrect card as it did.
However, regardless of why the refund was processed to an incorrect card, the fact remains 
that Curve processed the refund to an incorrect card. And this means the logic that Curve 
employs when processing refunds resulted in an incorrect outcome in this specific instance.
It doesnt necessarily follow from this that Mr L has incurred a detriment for which I feel its 
fair he should receive compensation, and I note both that £4 is a relatively small amount and 
that Curve reimbursed that amount back to Mr L in the form of a credit to his Curve account. 
And so, I dont feel that Mr L incurred a notable detriment as a result of not having access to 
the £4 for the time that he didnt.
But because Curve incorrectly refunded the £4 to a credit account that Mr L was in the 
process of closing, I do feel that Mr L has incurred a degree of inconvenience that he 
shouldnt have reasonably had to incur because of the actions he needed to take in regard to 
that credit account as a result of Curves mistake.
This is because the credit account in question could only be closed once the account 
balance had been taken to zero and when no activity had taken place on the account for 
three months. Mr L had taken the account balance to zero, but the reimbursement from 
Curve put that account £4 in credit and meant that Mr L wasnt able to close the account as 
he wanted to do until three months after hed arranged for the £4 to leave that account.
Im in agreement with our investigator that Mr L should fairly be compensated by Curve for 
this inconvenience which Im satisfied occurred through no fault of Mr Ls and solely because 
Curves refund logic didnt result in a refund being processed to a correct card in this 
instance. 
And I feel that the £50 compensation amount recommended by our investigator is a fair 
compensation amount in this instance, given the inconvenience that Mr L incurred in having 
to contact the credit provider and having to delay the closure of his credit account as Ive 
described it.
As such, my final decision here is that Ill be upholding this complaint in Mr Ls favour and 
instructing Curve to make a payment of £50 to him.  
Putting things right
Curve must make a payment of £50 to Mr L.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Curve UK Limited on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman