DRN-2266995
The complaint
Mr L says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) told him there was no payment protection insurance 
(PPI) attached to his credit card.
Later Mr L employed a claims management company (CMC) to successfully claim PPI from 
BoS. Mr L wants BoS to refund  the CMCs fees.
 
What happened
Mr L contacted BoS in February 2019 to complain about PPI added to a credit card account 
ending 5614.
BoS wrote to Mr L to say there was no PPI attached to credit card account ending 5614.
Later, Mr L employed a CMC to complain about PPI held with BoS. The CMC complained to 
BoS about a credit card account ending 0919. This account did have PPI attached and BoS 
agreed to uphold the complaint. It paid Mr L £191.10 compensation. The CMC is now 
requesting its fee for a successful claim.
An adjudicator from this service didnt think BoS should pay the CMC fee.
Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I will explain why.
Ive seen a copy of an email to Mr L from a CMC dated 17 January 2019. The email states ,  
 We have found PPI on your HBOS credit card account. The email went on to quote credit 
card account number 5614.
Later in January Mr L complained to BoS about a PPI policy and quoted account ending 
5614 without using a CMC.
BoS responded to Mr L on 18 February 2019 to say there was no PPI on account ending 
5614. The letter told Mr L he could refer his complaint to this service if he remained unhappy 
with its reply.
On 8 June 2019 another CMC wrote to BoS on Mr Ls behalf to complain about PPI on 
account ending 0919.
On 10 September 2019 BoS wrote to Mr L to tell him it had upheld his complaint about PPI 
on account ending 0919 and offered £191.10.
Mr L says that if BoS had conducted searches of all his accounts when he first complained in 
January 2019 then he wouldnt have needed to employ a CMC in June to claim 
compensation for the PPI sold on account ending £191.10.
Ive thought about this but in all the correspondence Ive seen regarding the first complaint 
Mr L was quite specific that his complaint was about account ending 5614. I can see Mr L 
corresponded with BoS after he received its letter on 18 February 2019, but I havent seen 
any evidence he asked BoS to search all his accounts for PPI. Had he done so Ive no doubt 
BoS would have supplied him with information about his other accounts.
Looking at the correspondence, I dont think BoS acted unfairly in not carrying out a search 
of all Mr Ls accounts when he specifically complained about account ending 5614.
I know Mr L feels he was compelled to employ a CMC in June 2019 to complain about PPI. 
But BoS had given Mr L referral rights to this service and if he still wanted to take his 
complaint further he could have contacted this service free of charge. Ultimately it was        
Mr Ls decision to employ a CMC.  So I dont think it would be fair for me to direct BoS to pay 
the CMC fees.
Mr L has also stated he is unhappy that BoS contacted the CMC in November 2019. But its 
likely Mr L signed a contract with the CMC authorising contact. But if Mr L feels BoS broke 
any data protection rules he should contact the Information Commissioners Office. 
 My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman