DRN-3967994
The complaint
Mr D complains about Chubb European SE and the difficulties he encountered when 
receiving a replacement phone following a claim he made on his phone insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D held a phone insurance policy that was underwritten and administered by Chubb. 
Unfortunately, in November 2022, Mr Ds phone was damaged while in his pocket and so, he 
contacted Chubb to make a claim on this policy. 
Chubb accepted the claim on 24 November, and they confirmed that a replacement phone 
would be delivered to Mr D on 26 November, two days later. Mr D says he was due to be at 
work on this day and so, he arranged cover for his shift to ensure he was available to take 
receipt of the replacement phone. 
But on 26 November, Mr D received a text from the courier, who Ill refer to as X, saying 
the delivery would take place the following day, on the 27 November. So, due to this 
information, Mr D arranged cover for his shift on 27 November as well.
But despite the information X provided, Mr Ds replacement phone was delivered on 26 
November as originally agreed. Mr D was unhappy with the conflicting information hed been 
provided and so, he contacted Chubb to raise a complaint.
Mr D was unhappy that, due to the information X had provided, hed needed to arrange 
cover for his shifts on both days unnecessarily. And Mr D felt Chubb were responsible for the 
actions of X, as he felt Chubb had essentially contracted out the delivery of his phone. So, 
Mr D felt Chubb were responsible for this loss of earnings, and he wanted to be 
compensated for this. Mr D also raised concerns about the service hed received from 
Chubb when trying to raise his complaint, which included one of the calls he made being 
disconnected and being unable to discuss his issues with a manager. 
Chubb responded to the complaint and upheld it in part. They didnt dispute Mr Ds testimony 
that hed received an erroneous text from X providing an incorrect delivery date. They 
acknowledged the upset this wouldve caused and explained they had provided feedback to 
X on Mr Ds behalf. And they accepted one of their handlers hadnt called back after a call 
had disconnected and again, they explained feedback had been provided. 
But they thought theyd acted fairly, and in line with the policy terms, when delivering Mr Ds 
phone as it had been delivered on the date they had agreed directly. And they explained 
they were unable to control the availability of managers to speak to customers at any given 
time. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr D remained unhappy with 
this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He was satisfied the phone 
had been delivered on the date Chubb had agreed with Mr D. And he didnt think Chubb 
were responsible for the actions of X, and the fact X sent Mr D an erroneous text. So, while 
he didnt dispute Mr Ds testimony regarding the loss of earning despite not being provided 
evidence of this, he didnt think Chubb needed to do anything more.
Mr D didnt agree. He maintained his belief that X were acting as a contractor on behalf of 
Chubb and so, Chubb should be responsible of Xs error. And while he accepted he was 
unable to provide evidence of his loss of earnings as hed since changed jobs, he explained 
he wasnt looking for his full loss to be covered and instead, he felt compensation should be 
paid to acknowledge the inconvenience hed been caused. As Mr D didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr D. Although our service 
hasnt been provided with evidence to confirm Mr Ds loss of earnings, I dont dispute Mr Ds 
testimony that he took the decision to re-arrange his shift on 26 November to ensure he was 
available to take receipt of the replacement phone due to his need for the replacement. And I 
recognise its not disputed by Chubb that Mr D received an erroneous text from X that 
confirmed the delivery date as the 27 November, rather than the 26 November. So, I think it 
follows that Mr D most likely did rearrange his shift for the following day, again to ensure he 
was available.
Because of the above, I can understand the frustration Mr D wouldve felt when the phone 
was then delivered on the 26 November, as originally agreed, as by this time hed already 
arranged cover for his shift the next day. So, I can appreciate why Mr D feels as though hes 
lost earnings unnecessarily. And as Chubb were the business sending the replacement 
phone, I can understand why Mr D feels Chubb are responsible. 
But for me to say Chubb should compensate Mr D for this, as hes already accepted he 
doesnt expect nor can he evidence his actual loss of earnings, I first need to be satisfied 
Chubb have done something wrong. So, Id need to see evidence that they failed to act in 
line with the terms of the policy Mr D held when issuing the replacement phone. Or, if I think 
they did act within these, that they acted unfairly in some other way. And in this situation, I 
dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what Ive been able to consider. I recognise as part of Mr Ds complaint, hes raised 
concerns about the conduct of Chubbs call handlers. This includes the tone they used, and 
the fact calls disconnected with no call back being provided. But Ive seen Chubbs system 
notes, and these satisfy me that these calls were made by Mr D to raise his complaint about 
Chubb and so, the service Chubb provided within these falls under their complaint handling 
process. And complaint handling is an unregulated activity, which falls outside of our 
services jurisdiction to consider. So, Im unable to comment on this aspect of Mr Ds 
complaint any further.
Instead, Ive focused on the aspect of Mr Ds complaint I can consider, which centres around 
the delivery of Mr Ds replacement phone and the information he was given regarding this.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mr D held. And these explain under the section How we will deal with your claim that where a claim has been accepted Chubb will 
arrange the delivery of the replacement for a time and day, from a range of available 
options.
Both Mr D and Chubb agree that the delivery of Mr Ds replacement phone was agreed 
between them directly for 26 November, and this is why Mr D took the decision to arrange 
his shift for that day. And its not in dispute that the phone was delivered on 26 November, 
as originally agreed. So, I think Chubb acted in line with their policy terms and the 
replacement was delivered as they said it would be.
But as Ive explained above, Ive also thought about whether I think Chubb acted unfairly in 
some other way. Mr D thinks they have, as he feels Chubb are responsible for the actions of 
X, as Chubb used X as the courier service to deliver the phone.
But I dont think this is the case. Although I appreciate Mr Ds comments, and why he 
believes this to be the case, I dont think I can fairly say that Chubb are responsible for the 
actions of X. This is because X are an entirely separate business and Chubb have no 
powers to influence the service X provides, or the delivery processes X have in place. And 
this follows our services approach for any external courier delivering items or post on behalf 
of a business.
I also think this is supported by Chubbs policy terms, which explain that in the event of a 
failed delivery, a customer must first follow the instructions of the card left by the courier. I 
think this makes it reasonably clear that the delivery itself, and so any information given 
during this delivery process, is the responsibility of the courier and not Chubb.
So, while I do understand Mr Ds upset and frustration, I dont think the situation he found 
himself in has resulted from something Chubb has done wrong. And because of this, I dont 
think Chubb need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr D was hoping for. And this decision isnt in any way 
intended to disregard the impact Mr D has felt, both emotionally and financially. But for me to 
say Chubb should compensate Mr D for this, I need to be satisfied theyve done something 
wrong that they are responsible for. And I dont think they have on this occasion. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about Chubb European 
Group SE. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman