DRN-3433491
The complaint
A court appointed representative for Mrs S complains that Legal & General (Unit Trust 
Managers) Limited (L&G) shouldnt have allowed money to be withdrawn from unit trusts 
Mrs S held jointly with a family member. 
What happened
The withdrawal request was sent to L&G in 2017. The investments were held in joint names, 
and the request had two signatures on it  one for each of the holders.
But L&G questioned the signature for Mrs S, and made further enquiries with her. This led to 
a letter being sent to Mrs Ss home address, asking her to either call or sign and return the 
letter to confirm her instruction. A signed copy of that letter was returned to L&G. 
In response to the complaint, L&G say they then made a risk-based decision to carry out the 
request. The money was paid to a building society account linked to the investment. I 
understand that account was held in joint names by both the holders of the investment. 
Mrs Ss representative argues that the signatures L&G received shouldnt have been 
accepted as confirmation of an instruction from Mrs S. Theyve also shown us some medical 
records that indicate Mrs S was diagnosed with dementia around the time the instruction 
was sent to L&G. While it seems to be accepted that L&G were unaware of this at the time, 
Mrs S's representative feels further enquiries would have led L&G to discover her condition, 
and so not accept the instruction. 
L&G didnt accept theyd done anything wrong in this case. Unresolved, it came to us. I can 
see our investigator has considered the facts of the case, and decided L&G took reasonable 
steps when handling the withdrawal request. He didnt feel anything further was needed to 
put this matter right. 
We havent had a response from L&G. Ive taken that to mean they accept our investigators 
view, particularly as the outcome was in their favour. Mrs Ss representative hasnt accepted 
that view though. They repeated their reasons for feeling there wasnt a valid request from 
Mrs S, and that the withdrawal shouldnt have happened as a result.
The complaint has therefore come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided L&G have acted reasonably when completing the withdrawal in 
2017. Ill explain why. 
Ive noted above the key bits of information that led to L&G carrying out the request. Starting 
with the initial request, I see this accurately included Mrs Ss address, client number and 
building society account details. It also correctly identified there was a joint account holder, 
and included their signature. These details  which wouldnt be obvious to someone who 
wasnt Mrs S or the joint account holder  could reasonably be seen by L&G as giving weight 
to this being a genuine request. 
The decision to write to Mrs S at her home address then acts as a way to ensure she was 
definitely involved with that request, given L&G werent sure about her signature. With 
nothing to tell them otherwise, I find it reasonable for L&G to believe Mrs S was receiving the 
post that was sent to her home. When they then received a response to their letter, L&G 
could reasonably see that as adding more weight to the belief that they were receiving 
instructions from Mrs S, and not someone else. 
The destination account for the money being one held by Mrs S  and one shed previously 
used to fund the investment  then supports L&Gs decision that there was limited risk in 
following the instruction. Processing the withdrawal moved the money from one account held 
by Mrs S to another, rather than putting it completely out of Mrs Ss control. 
I appreciate the receiving account was jointly held, and that meant anything added to it could 
be taken out by either holder. But I dont see enough here to say L&G should have 
questioned the intentions of the joint account holder. On the contrary, it appears that the 
investment had been jointly held with that person since 2011 without any issues coming up 
between them and Mrs S. 
It's also worth noting that the terms of the policy dont automatically apportion the 
investments when theyre jointly owned. It seems the investment is simply owned by both 
holders. Any agreements about exactly how the investments would be split between Mrs S 
and the other holder was for them to agree  in 2011  when Mrs S decided to add the other 
person to the investments. I dont see that L&G needed to make any assumptions that Mrs S 
would want half of the investment value for herself.
While I can appreciate L&G could have done things differently here and challenged the 
instruction more, I dont see enough of an argument to say they should have. It was enough 
for them to follow the sort of reasoning Ive seen they used, and conclude that they had 
received a valid instruction from the holders of the investment, as required under its terms. 
That did though mean L&G didnt become aware of Mrs Ss medical conditions, and so were 
unaware she might be more vulnerable as a result. But its worth noting I dont entirely agree 
with Mrs Ss representatives position that Mrs Ss dementia diagnosis makes this instruction 
invalid. A person with dementia can still have capacity to make financial decisions. And its 
notable that a representative for Mrs S wasnt appointed for almost three years after this 
request was made and carried out. That suggests she held some capacity to make financial 
decisions, before her condition developed. 
Overall  while I have sympathy for what Mrs Ss representative hints has happened here  I 
find L&G acted appropriately and drew reasonable conclusions about the request received. 
My final decision
Given the above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman