DRN-3322762
The complaint
Miss B complains that her home insurer, Society of Lloyds (SoL), caused months of delay in
dealing with her claim for fire damage to contents within her home and still hasnt settled her
claim for possessions that were in her loft.
What happened
I set out the background to the complaint within my provisional decision and also here. 
Miss B took out a policy with SoL in May 2018. Miss Bs home suffered a fire in November
2018, and she claimed to SoL. SoL instructed loss adjusters to deal with the damage to Miss
Bs home, alternative accommodation, and her contents.
Miss B said she told SoLs loss adjuster about her possessions in the loft at their first
meeting on 26 November 2018 and the loss adjuster decided it was unsafe to enter and
remove them. Miss B said she still expected SoLs loss adjuster to remove and catalogue
her contents once her loft was deemed safe to enter, but when that didnt happen she
employed a loss assessor to assist her claim and submitted a list of her damaged contents
in October 2019.
Miss Bs loss assessor has provided a File Note of a call with SoLs loss adjuster on 7
January 2019 in which he records, In respect of the Contents, all items on the first floor and
the majority on the ground floor had already been removed by [loss adjuster]. However, the
contents of the loft (large amount of clothing) were still in situ. I was advised by [Miss B] that
this was because the Engineer had suggested the ceiling joists were unsafe (fire started in
loft space). [loss adjuster] advised that once [they] received confirmation that it was safe to
go up into the loft, they would re-visit to remove the items.
SoLs loss adjuster authorised Miss B to have the contents removed on 8 July 2019: I am
confirming I am happy to proceed with [property restoration firm] in connection with the
removal of contents. This was in response to Miss Bs loss assessors email saying, The
contents items which remain in the loft space, will need to removal, listed (the majority are
considered BER) and disposed of. Miss B said her contents were listed by a property
restoration firm she instructed with the loss adjusters agreement and she responded to the
new loss adjusters request with as much information about the items as she could provide.
Miss B said that following months of inactivity SoL replaced these loss adjusters, but still
didnt contact her about the contents. SoLs new loss adjuster visited Miss B in February
2020 and discussed her contents and Miss B said her claim was agreed. Her loss assessor
said the loss adjuster said they would instruct a firm to deal with the contents, but this didnt
happen, and this loss adjuster retired shortly afterwards and a further request for information
followed in late March from the new loss adjuster.
The repairs to Miss Bs home were completed in January 2020 and she returned home, and
SoL made an interim payment of £20,000 in respect of her contents. But she said she could 
not buy replacements for all her damaged contents as SoL wouldnt settle her claim. Miss B 
complained about the delay to SoL in March 2020 but recently confirmed that there were still 
no settlement proposals. She said this caused her unnecessary distress and anxiety.
SoL said its loss adjusters had not passed on Miss Bs message about payments for her
building and contents claim in January 2020 and payment should have been made before
June 2020. SoL offered Miss B £250 compensation for its delay.
SoL said further substantiation was required before an offer for Miss Bs contents could be
made and in March 2020 it requested; a full submission, including previous accounts and
costs paid. SoLs loss adjuster said this hadnt progressed due to lack of cooperation from
Miss Bs loss assessor. They said they had made several requests for a full statement of
what was outstanding so this could be validated. They said that after three to four months
they still havent been provided with the requested information.
Miss B wasnt happy with SoLs response and referred her complaint to our service in July
2020. Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought compensation
of £250 was reasonable for the delayed payments for alternative accommodation and
repairs, but that SoL werent responsible for delay to payment for the contents claim.
Miss B didnt agree and felt the main part of her complaint hadnt been addressed - waiting
for payment for her contents. She said the claim was delayed waiting for the loss adjuster to
assess her contents and was still outstanding. She said the loss adjuster compiled a list of
her contents and this ought to have met SoLs requirements to prove the claim.
In November 2020 our investigator concluded that SoLs compensation of £250 was fair for
its delayed payment. In July 2021 the investigator considered Miss Bs contents claim and
said SoL had caused unnecessary delays and should pay Miss B additional compensation of
£500. He said SoL should expedite settlement of Miss Bs contents claim.
SoL said they were confused by differing responses to the complaint from the investigator
and wanted more information about what it had done wrong. The investigator explained that
even though SoL thought the claim was now resolved, it wasnt and the delay in its handling
meant payment of an additional £500 compensation to Miss B was fair.
SoL disagreed saying, I do not see how the customer has lost out, and I do not agree with
paying her a further £750. SoL said the contents claim wasnt progressing as its loss
adjuster hadnt been provided with a full list of Miss Bs losses by her loss assessor. SoL
requested an ombudsman review the complaint.
My provisional findings and the parties responses
In my provisional findings I said I intended to uphold the complaint. I said payments for the 
repairs of Miss Bs property and alternative accommodation were delayed but SoL offered 
£250 compensation and apologised, which I thought was fair for these parts of the claim. 
Payments for utility bills, council tax and appliances appear to have been made satisfactorily.
I said it appeared that Miss Bs loss assessor mentioned the contents in her loft to SoL within 
two months of the claim, although the details were submitted nearly a year after the fire in 
October 2019. Miss B said this was due to delays in their removal by SoLs loss adjusters. 
But it wasnt clear to me why the claim had to await removal of the contents.Miss B said the loft contents had been left in moisture from the extinction of the fire and had 
grown mouldy and she had to remove them when SoLs loss adjusters failed to act. I said 
there was a delay in the new loss adjuster visiting Miss B or asking about the contents until 
February 2020, but SoL made an interim payment towards Miss Bs losses in January 2020.
Miss B said she was told by the loss adjuster on the visit that further investigation of her
contents claim wasnt necessary. This loss adjuster retired, and SoL appointed a third loss
adjuster who requested more information about the claim in late March 2020 and Miss B 
responded promptly. I said Miss Bs contents claim had been delayed five months by SoL.
SoL appointed a fourth loss adjuster and said many requests were made to Miss Bs loss 
assessor for a full statement of outstanding contents, but none was forthcoming. SoL had 
said Miss B hadnt mentioned her clothing at the loss adjusters initial visit or subsequently, 
but I said the loss assessor has shown that this was not the case.
I couldnt understand SoLs approach to Miss Bs contents claim from its contradictory 
comments including that it is settled and concluded. I said its clear SoL doubt the clothing 
and I wouldnt tell it to pay, but I needed to see if it has treated her fairly. I said SoL is 
entitled to investigate a claim and its the policyholders responsibility to prove their claim. 
But ive seen no serious attempt by SoL to look into Miss Bs claim and I didnt think it had 
treated her fairly. I disagreed with SoL that the clothing wasnt brought to its attention and I 
said it didnt respond to the report on the contents from Miss Bs property restoration firm.
I disagreed with SoL that the property restoration firm failed to log the items and disposed of 
them before a possible inspection. I said SoL hasnt given a coherent explanation of the 
reason the claim was held up or why it took five months to tell Miss B it needed further 
substantiation. And Miss B said shed provided substantiation from her records and photos 
going back over six years.
In my view Miss Bs loss assessor wasnt at fault for the problems with her claim. His File
Note indicates he raised the claim with SoLs loss adjuster in a call within two months of the 
fire. The loss assessor said that SoL damaged his client relationship with Miss B. And said 
SoLs delay impacted on Miss Bs ability to follow up on uninsured losses. I didnt think this 
was a loss I could assess but I didnt think SoL had compensated Miss B for its poor service.
SoL said it doesnt understand how Miss B lost out through its very slow handling of her
claim and confused communications. I thought it obvious that delays getting to the start of a 
claim and more delays without progress would cause huge inconvenience and frustration. I 
thought SoL had lost sight of the clothing claim as multiple loss adjusters were involved. I 
said SoL is responsible for a very long delay in Miss B replacing her damaged possessions.
Miss B said problems with her claim have drastically affected her health and her ability to 
work, leading to financial loss. She said compensation of £1,000 would be fair. I said a 
further three months has passed since our investigator recommended SoL make progress 
with Miss Bs contents claim with no progress. I didnt think SoL treated Miss B fairly and I 
agreed that £1,000 represented fair compensation for the delays and poor communications 
from SoL and its agents.
I also thought SoL should progress Miss Bs contents claim and reach an informed decision 
without further delay. I said Miss B could bring a further complaint about the settlement or 
non-settlement of her full contents claim in light of SoLs response to this part of her claim. 
And Miss B could refer to the report from the property removal firm that SoL authorised her 
to use to remove the contents from her loft. Miss B and her loss assessor agreed with my provisional decision. The loss assessor said 
SoL are recovering most of its outlay on the claim from third party insurers. He said SoL 
shouldnt apply a reduction to her claim for under-insurance as she wont be able to pursue 
the third partys insurer for her uninsured losses as it has refused to consider these.
SoL disagreed with the provisional decision. It said my reference to SoL incorrectly saying in 
September 2021 that a settlement has now been reached and the claim is now concluded 
was wrong as its loss adjusters sent the final decision on the claim on 3 February 2021, 
which confirmed the decision taken in October 2019. 
SoL said Id increased the compensation because of further delays in concluding the claim, 
and said it must be considered in full, but the claim was concluded in February 2021 and so 
SoL shouldnt have to do anything further. SoL said Miss B hadnt raised a further complaint 
about the outcome of the claim and would need to make a new complaint about its decision. 
SoLs agents said theres no mention in the loss adjusters reports of any clothing in the loft 
or a reserve set for this at least to August 2019. It cast doubt on Miss Bs loss assessors file 
note of 7 January 2019 and said theres also no record of emails the loss assessor said hed 
sent. It said theres a pattern of the loss assessor saying e-mails had been sent and no trace 
of those e-mails and that I had accepted this at face value. The agents said Miss B only held 
£65,000 contents cover so she is grossly under-insured, and it doesnt make any sense. 
The loss adjusters said they were first made aware of the clothing after it was collected by 
Miss Bs agents. They said Id conflated the term contents with the clothing but references 
to contents dont demonstrate they were aware of the clothing at an earlier time.
The loss adjusters said the compensation I had suggested isnt warranted as there were no 
delays. They said if I were to insist that the clothing claim at £60,000 be dealt with, then the 
entire contents claim would have to be re-assessed to take account of the average condition. 
They said that the alleged clothing items were stored behind a partition and would not have 
been visible at the initial inspection given the limited access to the loft space.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld and for the 
reasons I have given in my provisional decision. 
Both parties have raised the potential under-insurance that could apply to Miss Bs contents 
cover. Her loss assessor says that as SoL has recovered or will recover its outlay from third 
party insurers her outstanding claim shouldnt be reduced. As I have said, I am not deciding 
on whether Miss Bs claim for her clothing should be paid, only if SoL has treated her fairly in 
its handling of the claim. SoL is entitled to verify the claim  it says its already declined it  
and I dont have information that would allow me to make a decision about it.
SoL acknowledges that it received details of Miss Bs clothing claim in October 2019. And 
said they declined the clothing claim by letter of 3 February 2021, confirming the decision 
taken in October 2019. SoL says it hasnt addressed a complaint from Miss B about the 
clothing part of her claim. I think its now open to Miss B to bring a complaint to SoL about its 
decision to reject her claim and she can then bring it to our service if she wishes. I have reconsidered SoLs handling of Miss Bs clothing claim here, in particular the time 
taken by SoL and its agents to deal with and decide upon the claim. Miss B says she 
mentioned her clothing to SoLs first loss adjuster in November 2018. Her loss assessor 
says he discussed the claim with the loss adjuster in January 2019. SoL casts doubt on the 
veracity of the loss assessors record but provides no records about this call itself. Ive seen 
the loss assessors email to the loss adjuster of 8 July 2019 in which he refers to, The 
contents items which remain in the loft space. SoLs complaint note for 30 June 2020 states 
that the contents claim needs to be fully investigated and substantiated by the policyholder. 
I cant be certain whether SoLs initial loss adjuster knew about the clothes but wouldnt 
inspect the loft out of health concerns, as Miss B has said, or that SoL werent aware until 
some time later when Miss B sent a list of contents. Even if I accept SoLs position, there 
was still a delay of five months from notification before it visited with a new loss adjuster and 
requested further substantiation in March 2020. This was an avoidable delay. SoL then 
requested further information in March 2020. Miss B promptly sent information and photos of 
her wearing the items indicating that she wasnt responsible for the delay in dealing with her 
clothing claim. But in June 2020 SoL said the claim required full investigation.
SoL declined the clothing claim by letter of 3 February 2021 saying it wasnt aware of the 
clothing from the start of the claim or its potential value. SoL said it still wasnt aware of the 
claimed quantity of clothing when its loss adjuster approved the removal of the loft contents. 
It concluded that, It has not been possible to establish the existence, quantity nor quantum 
of the clothing items which have been disposed of. I disagree, SoL was certainly aware of 
the clothing claim at this point and missed opportunities to inspect and assess the claim.  
SoL said Id increased the compensation because of further delays in concluding the claim, 
but the claim concluded in February 2021 and so it shouldnt have to do anything further. I 
think my provisional decision is clear that the compensation I put forward isnt just because 
theres no progress since the investigator recommended SoL consider Miss Bs clothing 
claim. Ive said above I dont think SoL properly addressed the clothing claim and Ive seen 
delays by SoL and its agents in the handling of the claim. These together with SoLs poor 
communications in my opinion justify the award of compensation I have set out again below. 
I think because SoL doubted everything about Miss Bs clothing claim it didnt bother to 
address it properly and missed opportunities for verification. I remain of the view that as 
theres been no serious attempt by SoL to look into Miss Bs clothing claim she hasnt been 
treated fairly. I also remain of the view that SoL and its agents caused delays in its handling 
of her claim and communicated poorly. I think this was exacerbated by use of four different 
loss adjusters at different parts of the claim and the breakdown in continuity and progress 
that I can see has stemmed from this.
Putting things right
I havent seen Miss Bs medical records, but I accept her description of the mental suffering 
she has endured during this very long claims process.
I think the £250 compensation SoL has already paid Miss B for delayed payments for parts 
of her claim is fair. SoL are incorrect to say that Id increased the compensation because of 
further delays in concluding the claim from when our investigator recommended this. I also 
think the £1,000 compensation I suggested is fair for the impact of SoL and its agents 
delays and poor communications upon Miss B during and after its response to the claim in 
February 2021. SoL can deduct £250 from this total if it has already been paid to Miss B. Miss B can now bring a new complaint to SoL, and subsequently to this service, if she 
wishes concerning its decision to decline her claim for her clothing. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require 
Society of Lloyds to pay Miss B further compensation of £750 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her during her claim. If it hasnt already paid her the £250 
compensation it previously offered, then it should pay her £1,000.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman