DRN-2829162
The complaint
Mr J complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
This complaint is about loans Mr Lender provided to Mr J as follows: 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments AmountHighest 
Repayment
1 04/09/2017 26/01/2018 6 £300.00 £114.00
2 26/01/2018 27/07/2018 6 £400.00 £172.26
3 04/10/2018 30/11/2018 12 £1,000.00 £206.93
4 03/04/2019 24/04/2019 6 £600.00 £229.60
5 04/07/2019 05/07/2019 3 £400.00 £219.73
6 22/07/2019 27/02/2020 12 £1,000.00 £258.83
When Mr J complained to Mr Lender it said all the loans had been provided only after 
responsible lending checks had been done and all the loans were affordable. But as a 
goodwill gesture Mr Lender offered Mr J a £25 shopping voucher. 
Mr J didnt feel that this offer was adequate to settle his complaint so he brought his 
complaint to us. He mainly said that he had provided evidence to support his affordability 
complaint. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint in part. He felt he hadnt seen enough to say it was 
unfair for Mr Lender to have provided loans 1and 2 to Mr J. But our adjudicator explained 
why he thought that loan 3 (and the loans that followed) shouldnt have been lent. Our 
adjudicator set out the steps he said Mr Lender should take to put things right. 
Mr Lender didnt accept our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
In brief summary, Mr Lender mainly said Mr J had zero outstanding payday loans prior to 
being approved for his third loan, the gaps between loans showed he wasnt borrowing every 
loan straight after paying the previous loan and all the loans were affordable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr J could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Js complaint.
Mr J told us he thought our adjudicators assessment was fair. So I dont think I need to say 
more about not upholding loans 1-2  except that Ive independently reviewed loans 1-2 and 
I agree with our adjudicator. 
Mr Lender expected Mr J would be paying loan 3 over 12 monthly repayments  and he took 
out loan 3 less than three months after hed paid loan 2. I dont think that gap between loans 
was long enough for Mr Lender reasonably to think that Mr J mightve put his finances in order during this period. Loan 3 was a significant increase in the amount Mr J had applied to 
borrow. Also, he was signing up to pay it back over a year  possibly to keep down the cost 
of the monthly repayments. 
So I think Mr Lender ought to have gone further in its affordability checks and looked in more 
detail at Mr Js spending when he applied for this borrowing to make sure it properly 
understood his financial situation before agreeing this loan. If Mr Lender had done this, it 
wouldve seen Mr J was already paying for other high cost borrowing elsewhere when he 
applied to Mr Lender for loan 3. 
I've taken into account that Mr Lender said its checks showed that Mr J didnt have any other 
AAIs recorded on his credit history. I understand these to be Advances Against Income  
in other words, high cost short term loans. But I think Mr Lender will be aware that different 
credit searches can show different results  so I think it shouldve understood that its own 
credit checks didnt necessarily show a persons whole credit record.  
Mr J has provided his bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what Mr Lender 
was likely to have found out if it had carried out more robust checking of Mr Js 
circumstances. To be clear, Im not suggesting the lender should necessarily have looked at 
bank statements  the rules arent prescriptive. But in the absence of other evidence, I think 
these give a reasonable guide as to Mr Js finances at the time. 
And had Mr Lender looked in more depth at Mr Js finances, as I think a proportionate check 
in these particular circumstances wouldve required it to do, it would likely have seen that he 
was facing serious problems managing his money.
I think it would have seen that Mr J was taking out multiple loans from other providers of high 
cost credit to supplement his income  he was already paying at least four other high cost 
lenders when he applied for loan 3. 
Mr J had said that the loan was intended to provide funds for a holiday. So I dont think Mr 
Lender wouldve had any reason to expect that it wouldnt add to his overall indebtedness  
there was no suggestion it would be used to reduce his other borrowing. 
I think if Mr Lender had seen this information it shouldve realised that there was a significant 
risk that loan 3 was unsustainable. 
And so Mr Lender shouldnt have provided loan 3  or any further borrowing.  
I have also looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders lending history with Mr J, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. Given the particular circumstances of Mr Js case, like the adjudicator, I think that this point 
had been reached by loan 6. I say this because:
by now, Mr Lender ought to have realised Mr J was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr J had taken out loan 6 less than three weeks after paying loan 5  
and borrowed more than twice as much as the loan hed repaid
hed now been borrowing from Mr Lender for around 22 months  with no significant 
gaps between loans. So, when Mr J asked for loan 6, I think Mr Lender ought to have 
known that he wasnt likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in his income but 
to meet an ongoing need 
Mr Js indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. Loan 6 was for significantly more 
than loan 1  more than three times the amount hed first borrowed. And although the 
loan amounts had varied his overall pattern of lending suggests that Mr J was asking 
to borrow because his financial circumstances hadnt improved and he was now 
reliant on this sort of borrowing. 
Our adjudicator thought that it was clear by loan 6 that borrowing and repaying these loans 
was now unsustainable and I agree. I think that Mr J lost out when Mr Lender provided 
loan 6 because:
the loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Js indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time
his overall pattern of lending was now likely to have negative implications on Mr Js 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 3  6. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr J, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr J may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to) have treated an application which may or may not have been the same is now 
impossible to reconstruct accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can 
fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would have been 
able to lend to Mr J in a compliant way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr J would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. This means it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for 
what Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right. So, Mr Lender should: 
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr J towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 3  6 not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr J which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr J originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C. Pay to Mr J the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
A. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Js credit file for loans 3  5. The overall pattern 
of Mr Js borrowing by loan 6 means any information recorded about this loan is 
adverse, so any record of this loan should be removed entirely from Mr Js credit 
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For these reasons, I partly uphold Mr Js complaint and PDL Finance Limited (trading as 
Mr Lender) should take the steps Ive set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman