DRN-3805257
The complaint
A partnership, which Ill refer to as T, complains about the way National Westminster Bank 
Plc (NatWest) handled its redemption of a business loan. 
The complaint is brought by Ts partners, Mr and Mrs K.
What happened
T held a business loan with NatWest. The loan was secured by way of a legal charge 
against a tenanted rental property.
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy with how NatWest dealt with various administrative aspects 
relating to their attempts to settle the loan, in connection with their sale of the property to the 
existing tenant. They say:
NatWest didnt respond to a number of their requests for a redemption statement, 
causing delays in their repayment of the loan.
NatWest sent correspondence about the loan to the address of the mortgaged 
property, rather than Mr and Mrs Ks home. The tenant received and opened the 
letters, which jeopardised the property sale.
There were delays in NatWest releasing its charge over the property after the 
outstanding loan balance was repaid.
Mr and Mrs K say that errors on the banks part meant they had to waive three months rent, 
from September to November 2021, in an effort to placate the tenant and ensure the sale 
went ahead. They also say that delays in completing the transaction meant they couldnt go 
ahead with their prospective purchase, as theyd missed out on a temporary Stamp Duty 
Land Tax reduction and couldnt afford to go ahead without it  so were left having to rent 
instead. And they say that the issues took a toll on their mental health, causing them 
significant stress during an already difficult time.
In response to Mr and Mrs Ks complaint, NatWest accepted that there was a delay in 
sending the relevant documents to the Land Registry in order to release the banks charge. It 
offered £500 for the distress and inconvenience this had caused. But it declined to comment 
on other matters, pending their review by our service.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she said:
NatWest had failed to respond to a number of Ts requests for a redemption 
statement, between October 2020 and August 2021. That said, thered been 
opportunities for T to follow up on its request during this time. And, in the end, T had 
successfully repaid the loan without obtaining the statement  so it could have done 
so earlier.
NatWest had sent a redemption statement, but posted it to the mortgaged property 
address. While this was the correspondence address NatWest held on file for T, Mr 
and Mrs K had previously asked for letters to be sent to their home address. And the 
bank hadnt addressed the redemption statement to Mr and Mrs K (or to anyone 
else). So this correspondence had been sent to and seen by a third party  the 
tenant, who was buying the property.
NatWest had accepted that it caused delays in releasing its charge. There had been 
a delay of around a month in actioning the necessary request to the Land Registry, 
which should have been processed by 24 September but was only completed at the 
end of October. The removal of the charge was, though, still subject to the Land 
Registrys process, for which a timescale of 8-12 weeks was given.
To put things right, our investigator recommended that NatWest increase its offer of 
compensation to £800, recognising the additional distress and inconvenience caused by the 
errors in how it provided the redemption statement. But she said T hadnt provided any 
evidence of the losses it had claimed in respect of its prospective purchase, so there was no 
basis for an award in that respect. And she didnt think that NatWest needed to reimburse T 
for the rent waived between September and November, given that the bank had shown it 
had asked for the charge to be released in October and any hold-up thereafter wasnt its 
fault. She also noted that if the sale had gone ahead sooner, T wouldnt have received the 
rental income anyway.
NatWest accepted our investigators view, but T didnt. So the complaint was passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive also found that there were shortcomings in how NatWest dealt with T 
during its attempts to repay the business loan. The bank has accepted as much. The main 
question for me to decide is how to fairly compensate T for the impact that these errors had. 
To that end, I think the £800 that NatWest has now agreed to pay is a fair way of putting 
things right. Ill explain why.
I can see that T made a number of requests to NatWest for a redemption statement from 
October 2020 onwards, to which the bank failed to respond. While I dont think this had 
much of an impact on Mr and Mrs K at the time the request was initially made (as they 
werent looking to repay the loan in the immediate future), the situation became increasingly 
urgent through August and September 2021 as they were looking to complete the sale of the 
property. 
When a redemption statement was eventually issued in early September 2021, it was sent to 
the address of the property against which the loan was secured  rather than Mr and Mrs Ks 
home address. There was some fault on both sides in that situation arising, as evidently Mr 
and Mrs K had initially told NatWest that the property address was their correspondence 
address and hadnt formally requested a change. But Ive seen that Mr and Mrs K did tell the 
bank to write to them at their home address in some email exchanges, so it ought 
reasonably to have acted on this instruction. This was compounded by the fact that the 
redemption statement wasnt specifically addressed to Mr and Mrs K  so, quite 
understandably, the recipient (Ts tenant, and the purchaser of the property) opened it 
without knowing who it was meant for.Once the redemption figure was known, Mr and Mrs K paid the amount required to settle the 
loan in three payments across 9 and 10 September 2021. The bank says that it should then 
have completed the necessary steps to initiate the release of its charge over the property 
within 10 working days  being 24 September. However, the banks records indicate that it 
only took the necessary action on or around 26 October. So it delayed things by about a 
month. 
Ive thought about whether T suffered a financial loss as a result of the errors on NatWests 
part and the delays they caused. But I dont think it did. I say this because:
T didnt incur any additional charges or interest on the loan as a result of any delay in 
redeeming it. Mr and Mrs K say they wouldve repaid the loan in April 2021 if theyd 
been given the statement earlier. But thats hard for me to substantiate, and the 
evidence that I do have doesnt support it. They continued to pay far less than the 
contractual monthly payment between April and September, when they could have 
overpaid or cleared much of the balance, even if they didnt know the precise amount 
required to settle it altogether. In any event, it didnt cost them any more to redeem 
the loan when they did than it would have done in April  because no interest was 
charged from December 2020, when the loan was defaulted, and no other charges 
were applied after that time either.
Even if I accept that NatWests errors in providing the redemption statement did 
delay the redemption of the loan, Ive not seen that this necessarily delayed the 
completion of the sale. I appreciate that the loan needed to be redeemed in order for 
the sale to complete, but such transactions hinge on a variety of factors, and theres 
insufficient evidence for me to say when the transaction would have completed if 
NatWest had issued a redemption statement earlier. And even if I could see that 
NatWest had directly caused the delay of the sale, Mr and Mrs K havent evidenced 
their claim that this left them unable to purchase a new property.
Ive not seen that it was necessary for T to waive their entitlement to rent from the 
tenant (and purchaser) as a result of the errors on NatWests part. I understand Mr 
and Mrs K agreed in mid-August that they wouldnt be seeking rent beyond that 
month. That was a choice they made to ensure the transaction went ahead, but Im 
not persuaded that it was something they had to do because of the problems with the 
redemption statement, and it was evidently agreed prior to the issues with the bank 
releasing its charge that only arose in September. 
However, I can see that errors on NatWests part caused Mr and Mrs K some 
understandable distress and avoidable inconvenience. Delays in obtaining the redemption 
statement meant they had to chase the bank up on a number of occasions, and also led to 
further dialogue with their solicitors and estate agents due to its importance to the property 
sale. The same is true of the delays on the banks part in releasing its charge over the 
property. The fact that their tenant and the property purchaser ended up with a copy of their 
redemption statement would also have been alarming to them. Selling a property is a 
stressful enough process in itself and the banks repeated errors would have exacerbated 
this. Im also mindful that this was already a difficult time for Mr and Mrs K, who had been 
suffering from ill health and experiencing a level of financial hardship. 
Its right that NatWest compensates Mr and Mrs K for the distress and inconvenience its 
errors caused them. Taking all of the above into account, and having carefully considered all 
theyve said and provided to us about the impact these issues had on them, I think a 
payment of £800 is a fair way of doing so.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require National Westminster Bank Plc to pay T compensation of 
£800.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman