DRN-2745872
The complaint
Mr Ks complaint is against TSB Bank plc in relation to a re-mortgage application on a buy-
to-let (BTL) property. Mr K says that delays by TSB and its solicitors resulted in financial loss 
and inconvenience to him. Mr K wants TSB to compensate him for this.
What happened
Mr K is a BTL landlord. In late 2019 Mr K wanted to buy another property and decided to 
re-mortgage one of his existing properties on a new BTL mortgage with TSB to enable him 
to raise funds for this. A mortgage offer for a loan of £75,000 was issued on 26 September 
2019. The loan was on a capital repayment basis, over a term of 20 years. The mortgage 
was on a fixed rate until 31 December 2024, during which time an early repayment charge 
would apply if the loan was repaid.
Mr K says that one of the reasons he chose TSB was because TSB offered free legals, 
which meant TSB would instruct a firm of conveyancing solicitors who would act on behalf of 
both TSB and Mr K on the purchase and mortgage. TSB agreed, as part of this service, to 
pay standard conveyancing fees, but no extra costs.
TSB appointed a firm I will call Q to act for it and Mr K in the transaction. Mr K was very 
unhappy at the service he received from Q. He said they lost documents  even ones hed 
hand-delivered to them, and told him in November 2019 that the documents were lost. 
During a conference call with Mr K, TSB and Q in November 2019, Mr K says that he was 
told that if he delivered the documents again by hand, the mortgage would complete within 
two weeks. 
Mr K followed this instruction, but says he heard nothing further from Q. By this point the 
properties hed been interested in had been sold, so Mr K gave up on the mortgage ever 
completing. 
TSB says that Q emailed Mr K on 4 December 2019 asking him for his preferred completion 
date. In the absence of any response, the solicitors decided to complete the remortgage 
without reference to Mr K and did so on 21 January 2020. Mr K is adamant he heard nothing 
further from Q following the call at the end of November 2019.
On 21 January 2020 Mr K became aware the mortgage had completed, as the £75,000 (less 
fees of £60) was paid into his current account. He immediately complained to TSB. He 
wanted to return the money but was told by TSB in March 2020 that he could not. Mr K was 
eventually able to complete a new BLT purchase on 8 July 2020, using the funds advanced 
by TSB.
After looking at what had happened, TSB told Mr K the fault was with the solicitors, not the 
bank. Mr K raised a complaint with the Legal Ombudsman, but ultimately that organisation 
declined to investigate the complaint any further. Thats because the Legal Ombudsman was 
satisfied that Q was the agent of TSB and so it was more appropriate for the complaint to be 
dealt with by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Mr Ks complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service was considered by an investigator. 
He thought the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that Q was TSBs agent, and 
so the bank was ultimately responsible for the errors made by Q.
To put things right the investigator thought TSB should treat the mortgage as if it had 
completed on 8 July 2020  the date when Mr K completed on his new BTL purchase  and 
remove any interest charged from the date in January when Q completed the transaction 
without authority from Mr K. He also thought TSB should pay Mr K £200 compensation for 
trouble and upset.
TSB didnt accept the investigators findings. The bank said it didnt consider it should be 
held responsible for the mistakes made by Q, especially where Mr K had received a 
response from the solicitors, as well as going to the Legal Ombudsman. TSB asked for the 
matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman, even after the investigator had clarified that the 
Legal Ombudsman was satisfied that the complaint was more appropriate to be dealt with by 
the Financial Ombudsman Service  and provided TSB with a copy of the Legal 
Ombudsmans letter confirming this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything thats happened, Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, for the following reasons.
Im satisfied that Q are TSBs agents in this transaction. This means that TSB, as principal, 
is liable for the acts or omissions of Q.
I can see that Qs service fell short of the standard both Mr K and TSB were expecting to 
receive. Documents were lost by Q, even after Mr K had delivered them by hand. But the 
most egregious error  which TSB has accepted  is  that Q completed the remortgage on 
21 January 2020 without any instructions from Mr K that this is what he wanted to do. Q 
should not have done this, and Im satisfied that its actions caused financial loss, 
inconvenience and upset to Mr K, for which he is entitled to be compensated.
  
Putting things right
To put things right TSB must re-work this mortgage account as if it had completed on 8 July 
2020  the date when Mr K was able to purchase a new property using the funds advanced 
by TSB. In addition, TSB must remove any interest applied from 21 January 2020 to 7 July 
2020 inclusive, as well as any information about the mortgage recorded on Mr Ks credit file 
for this period.
If Mr K made any payment to the mortgage account between21 January 2020 and 7 July 
2020, within 28 days of the date of Mr Ks acceptance of this decision, he can either ask TSB 
to reimburse him in full for the payments, or he can ask TSB to apply those payments 
towards reducing the capital balance on the mortgage, without incurring any early repayment 
charge. Mr K must let TSB know which option he prefers.
TSB must also pay Mr K compensation of £200 for trouble and upset.
 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, TSB Bank plc 
must carry out the redress set out above. I make no other order or award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman