DRN-3987827
The complaint
Mr M says that after dealing with a claim on his car insurance policy Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited didnt provide sufficient evidence of the costs it requires him to pay - 
which he thinks are excessive - and that it delayed in providing documents to him.  
What happened
Mr M made two complaints to Admiral after an accident in 2017. We werent able to review 
the first (about his liability for the accident) as Mr M didnt bring it to us within the required 
time limit. Admiral held Mr M wholly at fault, so it settled the other drivers claim and paid all 
his costs, as well as Mr Ms costs. Admiral requires Mr M to refund what it spent, as it says 
he misled it about the circumstances of the claim. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ms complaint. She noted that Admiral had offered him 
£100 compensation for not sending documents to him in a timely manner, which she thought  
was reasonable. The investigator asked Admiral to provide invoices and receipts to us 
showing the charges it had incurred on the claim. She thought the evidence it provided 
showed that Mr M hadnt been overcharged by Admiral. Although the costs were high 
(£22,183.23), she noted that the other drivers car was written off in the accident, that hed 
made a personal injury claim and that there were legal costs for both parties.
In response to the investigators view, Mr M said hed just asked Admiral for more 
information, but he didnt send us anything else or refer to the issue again. Later on he said 
he wanted a review of his complaint by an ombudsman. He said the main issue he wanted to 
discuss was the liability decision (although he acknowledged that wasnt an option). He also 
said he wanted to see physical proof of the sums Admiral said it had paid.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In its final response letter to Mr M on 23 March 2022, Admiral said it had provided relevant 
evidence of the claims outlay to him in response to a Subject Access Request (SAR). It 
said should he want anything further, he should contact its information rights team. Admiral 
has since then provided physical evidence to us of the costs incurred and the payments it 
made on the claim. I can confirm that it hasnt asked Mr M to refund more than that. 
I appreciate that the sum Mr M is required to pay Admiral is substantial. Many consumers 
would struggle to pay it and I understand why Mr M thinks its excessive. But the breakdown 
Admiral provided to Mr M in its final response letter showed that there were significant legal 
costs, plus the cost of the written-off car, and compensation for the other driver. Admirals 
other financial outlay included recovery and storage charges and the cost of repairing Mr Ms 
vehicle. The invoices Ive seen support the payments it made for those items.
I dont think theres anything to show that the cost of the claim was exaggerated by the other 
driver and his representatives, or that Admiral paid out more than it should have done. In 
particular, the personal injury claim was supported by medical evidence - and Admiral took 
legal advice. I think that was the best way to ensure that it was able to settle the claim on the 
best possible terms. 
 
Admiral accepted that its service could have been better, but I think the £100 compensation 
it offered is sufficient to cover that aspect of Mr Ms complaint. As I dont think it acted 
unreasonably in settling the claim as it did  and having seen evidence of the sums it paid 
out  I cant uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
I know Mr M will be disappointed with my decision and Im very sorry that hes found himself 
in such a difficult situation. In my opinion, it hasnt helped that we werent able to review his 
complaint about liability, as Mr M remains convinced that Admiral shouldnt hold him wholly 
at fault. Given his strongly held view about that, I understand his frustration with having to 
pay the full cost of the claim. But that doesnt affect the outcome of this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman