DRN-2788165
The complaint
Mr T complains that Highway Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined his home 
insurance claim for a lost Rolex watch.
What happened
Mr T made a claim on his home insurance policy for a lost Rolex watch. Highway didnt think 
he had sufficiently substantiated his loss, so it declined the claim. Highway gave the 
following reasons:
- Mr T had been unable to provide a detailed description of the watch; and hes provided 
differing descriptions, including about the metal and colour.
- Mr T explained the watch was purchased about ten years ago from a late uncle, for 
£7,000 in cash. Mr T hasnt provided any evidence of the purchase.  
- Mr T hasnt provided any supporting documentation to show ownership, or the box or a 
serial number. Mr T advised that when he purchased the watch, he had the box and 
papers, but these are no longer available.
- Mr T advised the watched had previously been repaired by a jeweller, but the jeweller 
has no record of the repair.
- Whilst Mr T has photographs of him wearing a watch, its not possible to determine the 
make and model.
- Mr T couldnt explain how the watch had fallen from his wrist. The loss adjusters noted 
the item is a sports watch with a folding clasp and an additional safety clasp, which 
would have made the watch very secure.
Mr T referred his complaint to this service. It was considered by one of our investigators, but 
he didnt think Highway had unfairly declined the claim. Because Mr T disagreed, his 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision, explaining that I intended to uphold the complaint. In my 
provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I accept Highways initial declinature was reasonable in view of its concerns and Mr T being 
unable to provide any substantiation. Mr T told the loss adjusters he didnt have any photos 
of him wearing the watch and it had never been valued. However, Im not persuaded it 
reasonably maintained its declinature in view of the substantiation that was then 
forthcoming.
Mr T found a jewellers valuation from 2014. Based on the jewellers website, the valuation is 
from a legitimate company. The description on the valuation matches the watch specified on 
the policy, and the valuation shows Mr T is the customer (although a different initial is given, 
the initial matches Mr Ts middle name and its the name hes used in his correspondence 
with our service). 
I havent seen that Highway made any attempts to contact the jeweller to find out more about 
the valuation. I would reasonably expect an insurer to make such enquiries if it had reason to 
doubt the document was legitimate. Highway simply dismissed the valuation on the basis it 
doesnt contain the watchs serial number. I dont consider that to be reasonable. Its still 
substantiation that needs to be given fair consideration.
Mr T also provided Highway with photos of him wearing the watch, from 2011. Mr T has also 
provided this service with photos of him wearing the watch in 2018 and 2019 (which we will 
share with Highway). Highway says the 2011 photos arent clear enough. However, Ive not 
seen it sought the opinion of a suitably qualified expert. It isnt unusual for an insurer to 
appoint a jewellery validation expert to consider photos, and here, given the supporting 
valuation, I consider Highway ought reasonably to have sought expert opinion.
In view of the 2014 valuation, and the photos of Mr T wearing the watch in 2011, I consider it 
likely he owned the watch in 2014. Given the photos not long before the claimed loss, I also 
accept he still owned the watch at the time of the loss. 
I can understand why Highway prefers a Rolex watchs serial number to be confirmed in the 
event of a claim. However, the policy terms dont require this information in order for a claim 
to succeed. And although I understand some of Highways other concerns relating to this 
claim, and its concerns relating to Mr Ts claim history, in view of the valuation that was 
provided, I dont consider it had fair grounds to continue to decline this latest claim.
In conclusion, Im persuaded Mr T has provided sufficient substantiation to support his claim, 
and Highway hasnt provided anything which leads me to believe the valuation and photos 
cant reasonably be relied upon when considered together. 
I intend to decide Highway should settle Mr Ts claim subject to the remaining policy terms; 
and pay him £150 compensation for unfairly maintaining the declinature after he provided 
the valuation, without making any further enquiries.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided further comments or evidence for me to consider. Having 
reconsidered the information that was previously provided, Ive reached the same 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is Highway Insurance Company Limited should:
- settle the claim subject to the remaining policy terms; and
 - pay Mr T £150 compensation 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman