DRN-3515245
The complaint
Miss S and Mr S complain about the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim against 
their motor insurance. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is well known to all parties. In my decision Ill mainly focus 
on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
Miss S and Mr S raised a claim on their motor policy with Aviva in February 2022. They 
reported the neighbours fence fell on their vehicle and damaged it following storm 
conditions. Aviva accepted it but said it would be recorded as a fault claim as they were 
unable to recover their outlay from another party. 
Miss S and Mr S complained. They say the fence was of low quality and poorly built prior to 
the storm conditions, and Aviva should recover their outlay from the neighbour. Aviva 
responded to it maintaining their position. As such, Miss S and Mr S approached our service. 
An investigator here considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. As Miss S 
and Mr S didnt agree, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S and Mr S argue the fence was of low quality and poorly built by the neighbour 
responsible for it. And the result of this was the fence fell during storm conditions and 
damaged their vehicle. To support this, Mr S provided photos which Ive reviewed. 
Mr S says the photos show gaps in the fence and no base which I accept. But Im not 
persuaded these photos in isolation strongly support his views that the fence was of low 
quality and poorly built prior to the storm conditions. And as such, this was the reason why 
the fence fell, the neighbour responsible for it was negligent and Aviva should now pursue 
them for their outlay. 
Miss S and Mr S say Aviva should have appointed an expert to assess the condition of the 
fence  after it partly fell  to determine whether the neighbour should be held liable for the 
damages to their vehicle. I understand why, but the onus is on a policyholder to substantiate 
their claim. So, Miss S and Mr S would need to demonstrate the resultant damage to their 
vehicle was due to the neighbour using poor quality materials and fitting the fence incorrectly 
 which as above, I dont find the photos do. 
It's important I explain that a fault claim doesnt necessarily mean a policyholder was to 
blame for the incident. Mr S says the vehicle was parked on his private driveway and 
unattended when the incident occurred. So, I do understand why Miss S and Mr S feel Aviva 
treated them unfairly when explaining the claim would be recorded as a fault claim. 
A fault claim, however, is generally recorded when an insurer is unable to recover their 
outlay. Aviva says given the lack of supporting evidence to show the fence was in a poor 
condition prior to the claim incident, theyre unable to recover their outlay from the fence 
owner. Im satisfied this was fair and reasonable based on the evidence Ive seen. Aviva also 
requested that if Miss S and Mr S could provide further evidence to support their claim, this 
could be considered further. I think this was the right thing to do. 
Overall, Im satisfied Aviva handled the claim reasonably and treated Miss S and Mr S fairly. 
So, I wont be requiring Aviva to do anything further. I appreciate my decision will come as a 
disappointment to Miss S and Mr S. But my decision ends what we  in attempting to resolve 
their dispute with Aviva  can do for them. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman