DRN-3180974
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that, for a period of around a month, Barclays Bank UK PLC prevented him 
from using his own funds for an investment.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
- Barclays had concerns about the legitimacy of the investment. Its notes say that, as 
at June 2020, Mr M had invested £10,000 with one company and £40,000 with 
another but had yet to receive any return on his investments. The notes say that 
Mr M had found the investments from an online search. Later notes state that 
companies arent regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and that theres an 
irregularity in the telephone number of the financial advisor. 
In the terms and conditions for the account, which both parties wouldve agreed to, it 
says, under the section When we dont have to follow your instructions, We 
reasonably think that a payment into or out of an account is connected to a fraud, 
scam or any other criminal activity. This includes where we reasonably think the 
funds are being obtained through deception. I think theres sufficient information 
here for Barclays to have had reasonable doubts about whether it was a genuine 
investment company  it didnt need to have evidence that it was scam. So, it follows 
that it didnt act unreasonably by following its terms and conditions and deciding not 
to action Mr Ms request. 
- I can see that Barclays took action to try to protect Mr Ms funds when it had doubts 
about the investment. In line with the banking protocol, it arranged for the police to 
speak to Mr M. Mr M said the police were satisfied following this conversation, so 
Barclays shouldve allowed him to invest his money at that point. But this differs to 
what Barclays notes state  which is that the police raised some concerns and 
referred the matter to Action Fraud, as well as speaking to Mr M more than once. So, 
based on the evidence Ive seen, it doesnt appear to me that Barclays were 
unnecessarily cautious.
- I do appreciate that Mr M was frustrated by not being able to access his own money. 
But Barclays has a responsibility to protect its customers and itself. And Im 
persuaded, from everything Ive seen and been told, that this is what it was trying to 
do. So I cant fairly say that its acted unreasonably.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman