DRN-2979137
The complaint
Miss J has complained about her broker Towergate Underwriting Group Limited. She feels it 
treated her poorly during several telephone conversations she had with it in September and 
October 2019 when trying to secure renewal of her motor policy. Miss J feels she was 
discriminated against, bullied and harassed.
What happened
Miss J first called Towergate on 21 September 2019. But by the end of this call, and over the 
course of several subsequent calls Miss J felt very unhappy  she lost trust in Towergate 
and its employees, felt she was being lied to and treated unfairly. In a call on 
23 September 2019 Miss J explained to the team manager she was talking to that she felt 
this poor treatment  which she feels continued in later calls too  was on account of her 
race, that she felt bullied and harassed.
Following a call on 8 October Miss Js concerns were escalated to a complaint. And Miss J 
was also unhappy about how her complaint was dealt with. She also raised concerns that 
recordings shed been sent of her calls with Towergate on 21 September 2019 had been 
doctored in some way.
As a result of Miss Js complaint Towergate accepted that it hadnt provided a good service 
to Miss J. But it denied allegations of discrimination, bullying, harassment and of doctoring 
the call recordings. However, it felt that if it had got things right in the very first call of 
21 September, rather than failing Miss J at that early stage, all of the upset Miss J had been 
caused would have been avoided. So it apologised and said it would pay Miss J £500 
compensation. Miss J remained unhappy and complained to this service. 
Our investigator explained to Miss J that we couldnt look into how Towergate had handled 
her complaint. And also that we couldnt determine if discrimination had occurred  that was 
a matter best placed for the courts to decide. But, having listened to all the calls  provided 
by Miss J and Towergate  he felt that Towergate had provided a poor service to Miss J. He 
felt that in doing so Towergate hadnt treated Miss J fairly. He also felt that £500 was fair and 
reasonable compensation to make up for the upset caused by Towergates failings. 
Miss J said that in the interests of transparency, she wanted an ombudsman to consider her 
complaint. She felt we should also approach the third-party company which records calls for 
Towergate and obtain an original call recording from it. Our investigator explained that isnt 
something we would usually do. Her complaint was passed to me for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator set out the call content in detail, and I dont intend to do that here, I mean 
that as no discourtesy to the parties and I can assure them both that I have listened to the 
recordings provided. My intention at this final stage of our process is to sum up the key 
issues of the complaint and express my view on it  which, on this occasion, is no different to 
that expressed by our investigator. 
Further, as also explained by our investigator, I cant look at the complaint handling issues 
Miss J has expressed concern over, and nor can I make a determination about 
discrimination. We can only look at regulated activities and complaint handling is not a 
regulated activity. And nor are we the regulator, and its the regulators function to oversee 
how a business generally conducts itself. The subject of discrimination is one best dealt with 
by the courts. Thats because this service is an informal dispute resolution service and often 
an assessment of discrimination requires consideration of what was going on in the minds of 
those involved. That isnt something that can be determined during our type of review. For 
example, I cant know why those on the calls with Miss J acted as they did, I can only hear 
what was said.
In respect of what was said in the calls with Miss J, I dont think any of Towergates 
representatives were actually rude to Miss J. I think there was a directness in the first 
advisor and several missed chances to provide a good service to Miss J. I think the advisor 
also made assumptions and didnt really seem interested in helping Miss J. Particularly 
towards the end of this call I think he could have been more helpful and I can understand 
why Miss J became frustrated. This pattern seemed to continue in further calls. There were 
another couple of key failures in my view  that in the second call on 21 September 2019 the 
female advisor gave Miss J cause to think she had been colluding with the first advisor. And 
she then appeared to make it very difficult for Miss J to set up her direct debit. 
The direct debit conversation was, in my view, a big failing on Towergates part. And was 
exacerbated in the next call Miss J had with a team manager. To give this some context  
Miss J was unhappy with the price and she wanted to contest it, but she needed cover to be 
arranged that day, but she couldnt afford to pay the whole price and she wasnt given all the 
possible options of payment available to her. In short the advisor left Miss J with only an 
option of paying by direct debit but then was insistent  frankly to the point of absurdity in my 
view  that Miss J had to say she was happy to set up the direct debit. Towergate has 
explained this was a result of its script, a script all call handlers have to follow, designed to 
ensure it complies with regulations to prevent it from setting up payment plans incorrectly. 
I think, from the call Ive heard, at best the female advisor didnt understand the purpose of 
the script and that it didnt have to be followed (literally) to the letter, or at worst the fact of 
the script  which advisors are trained to adhere to  was something which, for whatever 
reason, the female advisor sought to exploit. And when the team manager called Miss J, 
without having first listened to the call, he took the side of the female advisor and assumed 
that Miss J had unreasonably refused to set up the direct debit.
Im not persuaded it was wrong for the team manager to call Miss J without having first 
listened to the call recordings from the weekend. I think there is something to be said for a 
complaint being considered first by hearing what both sides have to say  the Towergate call 
handlers and Miss J  and then listening to the calls themselves to decide which recollection 
and view of the conversation is most reflective of what occurred. I think Miss J would agree 
thats a fair way of doing things. But the team manager, whilst talking with Miss J, rather than 
listening to her side of things, began to make decisions about what likely happened. And in 
doing that he made assumptions that his staff hadnt failed Miss J, that the problem must 
have come from Miss J. He failed Miss J. He treated her unfairly and unreasonably.From here Miss J spoke to Towergates director of operations. These calls were designed to 
gather information in order for Towergate to deal with Miss Js complaint. I think these calls 
were difficult for both parties at times. With both parties sometimes getting frustrated. Of 
course, Towergates director of operations, acting in a professional capacity should have 
taken greater care to not let his emotions come into the conversations. But generally I dont 
think Miss J was particularly failed at this stage. I think, by this point, the earlier calls and 
everything that had been going on as a result  including Miss J making her own enquiries 
with the insurer about the reason for the premium increase  meant that Miss J was never 
going to be able to trust whomever dealt with her or trust in whatever they said. The course 
of the complaint was set by then and I dont think anything could have averted it. 
I understand why Miss J made her own enquiries with the insurer. She had been told by the 
first two advisors that her premium that year had increased due to a pending claim on her 
record. Miss J felt that must be wrong as she had evidence, which she shared with the 
female advisor whilst on the call, that showed her claim was resolved. Ive seen the evidence 
and can see why the female advisor didnt find it persuasive. But during the call with the 
team manager, Miss J was told the claim wasnt an issue at all. Rather the premium had 
increased because the insurer had implemented an increase across the board for this book 
of cover. I can see why Miss J found this hard to accept and I think the team manager could 
have done more to explain this, and why the first two advisors had got it wrong. I think that 
came from their inexperience and perhaps lack of attentiveness. They assumed the pending 
claim was affecting the premium  which can often be the case  without really taking the 
time to consider whether this was the cause of the rise for Miss J. Their failures in this 
respect, coupled with other failures during those calls and the team managers own apparent 
bias, meant Miss J couldnt accept the truth of the reason for the increase. And when she 
made her own enquiries, she was given further cause to doubt what shed been told. But 
I think thats because Miss Js policy is quite specialist and this means it is priced differently 
to more standard covers. Unfortunately, Miss J wasnt to know that because Towergate 
failed her when she made her enquiry about this during the calls on 21 September 2019.
I know Miss J thinks the calls have been manipulated by Towergate. I dont think they have. 
They seem to run seamlessly with no breaks and the voices dont change in a way that 
might suggest theyve been replicated or tampered with. Miss J recorded the call with the 
female advisor, and her copy is clearer than Towergates. But that doesnt mean 
Towergates has been doctored. Towergate uses a third-party company to record its calls, 
but Towergate has access to all the calls via a portal. So it downloads them directly from 
there. It would be unusual for downloaded detail like this to be capable of manipulation. And 
whilst I dont doubt how strongly Miss J feels about this, Im not persuaded shes likely 
correct. In any event, based on the recordings as they are, I think Towergates 
representatives failed Miss J and I can fully understand why she became frustrated.
Towergate accepts that it didnt provide the service to Miss J that it should have done. It also 
accepts that, if it had, all of her upset would have been avoided. Its clear to me that Miss J 
has been extremely upset by whats gone on. And whilst I cant make a finding about 
discrimination, I can see that Towergates failures caused Miss J to think she had been 
subjected to this type of behaviour. I also think Miss J wasnt wrong to feel shed been 
bullied and harassed at times. In saying that Im thinking particularly about the direct debit 
set-up conversation with the female advisor. Towergate has apologised to Miss J and it has 
offered £500 compensation. Having reviewed everything, taking into account how Miss J felt 
as a result of how Towergate treated her, I think thats fair and reasonable. As such, and 
because I see the monetary compensation hasnt yet been paid to Miss J, Im going to say 
Towergate should pay this now. Putting things right
I require Towergate to pay Miss J £500 compensation for the upset it caused her.
My final decision
I require Towergate Underwriting Group Limited to provide the redress set out above at 
putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman