DRN-4165574
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money he lost, which he believes 
was as the result of a scam.
What happened
The circumstances which led to this complaint are well-known to both parties and have been 
laid out in detail by our Investigator in their view, so I wont repeat them in detail here. But, in 
summary, I understand them to be as follows.
In or around April 2022, Mr D hired a firm of builders to carry out some renovation work for 
him, but the works werent completed and so Mr D raised a scam complaint with Barclays. 
Barclays agreed that Mr D had been scammed and refunded the money he had lost to the 
builders.
Mr D has said the builders who had scammed him had sub-contracted another company to 
supply concrete. Hes said the concrete was delivered at regular intervals, but he believes 
the concrete company has also scammed him, as Mr D says he was charged for more 
concrete than was actually poured and the concrete that was poured, was not of the strength 
that it shouldve been.
Mr D has said concerns were first raised to him by new builders, who hed instructed and 
were carrying out the renovations for him after hed been scammed. Mr D has said he 
believes the concrete firm were running a metre scam and tampering with the metre, to 
make it appear as if more concrete was being poured than actually was, leading to the cost 
roughly doubling.
In total Mr D made five payments to the concrete company totalling £7,824, made up of 
some cash and some faster payments.
Believing he had been the victim of a scam, Mr D raised the matter with Barclays. It looked 
into Mr Ds complaint and sent its final response in July 2022, not upholding his complaint. In 
summary, it considered this was a buyer-seller dispute between Mr D and the concrete 
company. It added that due to data protection it couldnt divulge any information about the 
beneficiary account.
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr D brought his complaint to our service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things, but our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. In 
summary she said that shed considered the matter under the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM code), that Barclays is signed up to, but thought this was a civil matter and she 
couldnt say that Mr D was dealing with a scammer.
Mr D didnt agree with our Investigators view. In summary, he strongly maintained that hed 
been the victim of a scam. He added that he didnt think Barclays had taken into 
consideration his circumstances and that he was vulnerable at the time. Alongside this he 
thought Barclays could have done a better job of alerting him to the risks of scams.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been provided, 
and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Having thought very carefully about Barclayss actions, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. I do 
appreciate how disappointing this will be for him and I dont underestimate his strength of 
feeling and I can see that this has been a very difficult time for him. But I dont think I can 
fairly say Barclays should reimburse him. Not all cases where individuals have lost 
significant sums are in fact fraudulent and/or a scam.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code), which 
Barclays has signed up to and was in force at the time Mr D made these payments.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam. But the CRM Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all 
push payments. It says:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint.
Both the bank and our Investigator felt the payments Mr D made formed part of a civil 
dispute and, as such, are not covered by the CRM Code. Mr D disagrees. He feels the 
concrete company has scammed him.
In order to conclude that the payments Mr D made were part of a scam, Id need to be 
reasonably satisfied, from the available evidence, that the concrete company he was using 
set out to defraud him. But I dont think, based on what I know, that I can safely conclude 
that.
Ive thought about what Mr D has said, in that he thinks less concrete was poured than was 
paid for and that he doesnt even know if it was actually concrete that was poured. And I 
appreciate Mr D has sent evidence which he believes supports this. Its clear the agreement 
Mr D entered into with the concrete company did not go as he thought it would and he 
believes he has not received what he was expecting. But Im not persuaded, with what I know and from the evidence provided, that I can say the concrete company set out with an 
intent to defraud him.
This means I dont think Barclays is responsible for reimbursing Mr D under the CRM Code 
or because of any wider obligation it has to protect Mr D. On balance, there are a number of 
factors which, in the circumstances of this case and when considered collectively, arent 
typical of this being a scam. I say that because;
- There was work carried out, at least to an extent on a number of occasions. Id 
usually expect a scammer to do as little work as possible, so it appears the concrete 
company did more work than Id expect a scammer to have done.
- Im also mindful that the concrete company has been registered at Companies House 
since 2017, with its nature of business being construction, and it continues to be 
registered. Ive also seen confidential information in relation to the beneficiary 
account. I cant share any details with Mr D, but the information leads me to think its 
more likely than not the concrete company were supplying their services legitimately. 
And it seems to me that the account was being used for normal business expenditure 
when Mr D made the payments.
- Im also not aware of any criminal investigation into the concrete company by the 
Police, or any other authority, which would lead me to safely conclude there was an 
intent to defraud. 
Given this and that the situation doesnt display the hallmarks most typically associated with 
this type of scam, I dont think it was unfair for Barclays to take the view that the situation 
formed part of a civil dispute. After taking everything into careful consideration, so the 
testimony and evidence provided by both parties, on balance, I cant safely conclude what 
has happened here meets the high legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud.
This being the case Im satisfied the CRM Code doesnt apply. And I cant ask Barclays to 
refund the money Mr D has said he has lost, as I dont think Barclays treated Mr D unfairly 
when it said the payments he made formed part of a civil dispute.
Mr D has said that he was vulnerable at the time the transactions were made. Im sorry to 
hear of the difficult circumstances Mr D found himself in and I dont doubt how challenging a 
time this must have been. While I dont underestimate what Mr D has told us, I have to be 
fair and reasonable to both sides in a complaint. I cannot fairly compel Barclays to do more 
when the relevant law, rules, codes and good practice do not say that it should. And for 
reasons explained, as I cant safely say that a scam has taken place, it means that the CRM 
code doesnt apply to the payments Mr D made, so Barclays isnt obligated to make a refund 
due to any potential vulnerabilities.
I am sorry to have to deliver this news to Mr D. I know this wasnt the answer he was hoping 
for. But, for the reasons I have explained, I cannot fairly say that Barclays should fairly and 
reasonably be held responsible for the loss Mr D believes hes suffered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 Stephen Wise
Ombudsman