DRN-3277425
The complaint
Miss C complains that Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) wont allow her to open a new 
account with them. She also says theyve been rude to her and took too long to deal with her 
subject access request.
What happened
Miss C had a bank account with RBS, which they closed in January 2021. Later that year, 
she tried to open a new account with them, but her application wasnt accepted. Miss C says 
that when she complained about this the bank was rude to her.
Miss C also complained that the length of time to provide her data following a subject access 
request was excessive.
RBS considered Miss Cs concerns. They said it was their decision as to whether she can 
have an account with them, although they agreed that staff had been rude and that Miss C 
had had difficulties registering her subject access request. RBS apologised for those things 
and sent Miss C a cheque for £100 as compensation.
Miss C didnt think that was acceptable so brought her case to our service.
An investigator here looked into the matter. They said they felt the compensation paid to 
Miss C was fair in the circumstances.
Miss C didnt agree, she felt she hadnt done anything wrong and that RBS was preventing 
her from taking advantage of a £150 bank account switching offer. And she said it was unfair 
for RBS not to say if or when she might be allowed to bank with them again.
Because agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss C but I think RBS has been fair in their consideration of her 
complaint. Theyve accepted that some things could have gone better, and they have paid 
fair compensation for that.
RBS are entitled to decide whether they accept a bank account application from any 
customer, provided they dont make that decision in a discriminatory way  such as basing it 
on a protected characteristic. Ive not seen anything to make me think that happened here. I 
note, there are different rules for basic bank accounts but that isnt what Miss C is applying 
for. 
Rather, RBS chose to close a previous account of Miss Cs. Having done so, its 
understandable that they might not want her to have a new one in the near future, or 
possibly even at all. I know this is frustrating for Miss C, because she doesnt know if she will 
ever be allowed to bank with RBS again, but it doesnt mean RBS are being unfair.
And while I know Miss C wants me to do so, I cant tell RBS to put a timescale on when, or if, 
they will accept an application from her.
I appreciate Miss C feels shes done nothing wrong and is being penalised despite that. But 
it seems to me that the relationship between Miss C and RBS has broken down, bearing in 
mind she says they provide exceptionally bad service and rates them as 0 out of 10. So,
Miss C may wish to consider taking her custom elsewhere  to a bank she feels she can 
trust.
Turning to the rudeness, RBS accepted this aspect of Miss Cs complaint and have 
apologised for it. Likewise, they accepted that shed had difficulty logging her subject access 
request. RBS paid £100 compensation for those things.
I think that compensation is fair in the circumstances. Sometimes an apology may even be 
enough for things like that, because other than a little upset or frustration they dont cause a 
great deal of hardship. I dont know whether Miss C has received the data from her subject 
access request yet, but I cant see that having to wait a few months for it would cause 
enough distress for me to recommend further compensation.
Overall, I think RBS have treated Miss C fairly. I appreciate she wont agree and hasnt got 
the answer she wants  a date from which an application might be accepted  but I simply 
cant give her that answer.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman