DRN-1427499
 
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr and Mrs C says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them the PPI. It covered Mr C in case 
he was off work sick or lost his job.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage application gave them the option to take PPI or turn it down. The 
option to buy PPI was chosen, and Mr and Mrs C signed the form to confirm what was on it. 
Mr C also signed and submitted an application specifically for PPI, separately to applying for 
the mortgage itself, in order to get a policy in his name. He also set up a direct debit to pay 
for the policy, separately to paying for the mortgage  it wasnt part and parcel of the 
mortgages cost. So I think that Lloyds made it clear Mr and Mrs C didnt have to take out 
PPI and that they chose to take it at the time  though I can certainly understand if they no 
longer recalled doing so after so many years.
Lloyds recommended the PPI for Mr C, so it had to check that the policy was right for him 
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, it looks like Mr C was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations. The PPI covered Mr C for much longer than his work benefits 
wouldve lasted, and it paid out on top of them. While Mr and Mrs C had endowment policies, 
those didnt cover the same things and werent alternatives to PPI. Ultimately, if Mr and 
Mrs C fell behind on their mortgage, they couldve lost their home. It looks like the PPI 
couldve been useful for them in protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs C chose to take out the policy, which 
indicates they wanted this type of cover. As I said above, it doesnt look like Mr C was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI, and it could have been useful for 
Mr and Mrs C in case something went wrong. The PPI was competitively priced compared to 
similar policies, and it could be cancelled at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think 
better information about the PPI was likely to have put Mr and Mrs C off taking it out. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C because: Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs C about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell 
them, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
Lastly, Mr and Mrs C mentioned some issues with the mortgage itself and the information 
they were given when they redeemed it. In this case Im only looking at the sale of the PPI, 
and not what came after or what happened with the mortgage. Mr and Mrs C may be able to 
complain separately about those things.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman