DRN-2249924
The complaint
Mr B complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc unfairly declined his credit limit increase request. 
Mr B also complains Sainsburys Bank and wont tell him why his request wasnt successful.  
What happened
Mr B successfully applied for a credit card with Sainsburys Bank in May 2019 and was 
offered a £6,500 credit limit. Mr B asked Sainsburys Bank to set his credit limit at £500.
In November 2019 Mr B asked Sainsburys Bank to increase his credit limit to £1,000 but it 
declined his request. Mr B complained and Sainsburys Bank responded on 8 January 2020. 
Sainsburys Bank said it couldnt give a specific reason why the request had been declined 
because its lending criteria was private. Sainsburys Bank also said Mr B could appeal and 
provided details about how to do that. 
Sainsburys Banks final response apologised for delays in dealing with his complaint and 
paid him £100. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our service as he wanted a better explanation of why his 
request was declined. Our investigator agreed that Sainsburys Banks underwriting criteria 
was commercially sensitive and didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. Mr B asked to appeal and 
said his circumstances hadnt changed between the original application and request for the 
credit limit increase. As Mr B asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see this situation has caused Mr B frustration and I do understand why he is upset at 
Sainsburys Banks decision to decline his credit limit increase request. As Mr B has said, he 
was originally offered a £6,500 credit limit, far in excess of the £1,000 he later asked for. I 
can understand that Sainsburys Banks decision feels unfair and why he wants a better 
understanding. However, as both Sainsburys Bank and our investigator have said, a 
lenders underwriting criteria is private and commercially sensitive. We cant force a business 
to tell its customers how it looks at credit limit increases or other borrowing applications, we 
can only consider whether the request was handled correctly. 
Sainsburys Bank has advised that it made its decision based on how Mr B had used his 
account as well as general market conditions when considering the credit limit increase. I 
appreciate the amount of information provided by Sainsburys Bank is very limited and that 
Mr B wants a more detailed response. But, Im satisfied that Sainsburys Bank is free to set 
its own lending criteria based on market conditions and that it considered Mr Bs request as 
claimed. 
I note that Sainsburys Banks final response provided details of how Mr B could appeal the 
decision so there was further recourse if he felt a genuine error had been made. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr B as I appreciate one of the main things he wants is a more detailed 
explanation of Sainsburys Banks lending decision. But for the reasons Ive given above, Im 
satisfied Sainsburys Bank has provided a reasonable response to his queries. 
Sainsburys Bank paid Mr B £100 because of the service he received when he asked about 
why his request had been turned down. Im satisfied that the £100 Sainsburys Bank offered 
is a fair way to resolve Mr Bs complaint so Im not telling it to increase the award or take any 
further action. Should Mr B wish to accept Sainsburys Banks offer, he can ask our 
investigator to arrange settlement.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Sainsburys Bank Plc has already 
made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman