DRN-1669461
The complaint
Mr R complains about how UK Insurance Limited dealt with a claim for accidental damage to 
his television.
What happened
Mr R holds a home contents insurance policy, which is underwritten by UK Insurance Limited 
(UIL). Under this policy Mr R is covered for accidental damage to his contents.
In November 2019 Mr Rs dog bumped into him, which caused him to fall over. As Mr R fell 
he knocked over his television, which caused damage to his sound bar, an obelisk statue 
and coffee table.
Mr R contacted UIL to make a claim under his policy for all items that were damaged. On 14 
November 2019 UIL appointed a company to attend Mr Rs property to assist it in dealing 
with the claim. Ill refer to them as D throughout this decision.
D contacted Mr R on 16 November 2019 to discuss settlement of his claim. As Mr Rs 
television couldnt be repaired UIL offered to replace it using the model D had suggested. 
UIL gave Mr R details of the model it proposed to provide. However, he was immediately 
concerned by the suitability of the recommendation D had made so he raised concerns 
about that with UIL. 
UIL reviewed the suggested replacement television and agreed with Mr R that the model 
recommended by D wasnt a suitable replacement. It offered Mr R an alternative 
replacement, which it felt matched the specification of damaged television more closely. But 
it accepted this model wasnt directly comparable to Mr Rs damaged television due to some 
of the features having now become obsolete.
Mr R still felt the replacement television UIL was offering wasnt of equivalent specification, 
which was reflected in its price. He explained the differences between both models to UIL. 
And he said, when he purchased the television that was damaged in 2014, it was a flagship 
model and had cost around £3000. So, he felt he should be offered the 2019 flagship model. 
Mr R suggested a television, which he felt more closely matched the specification of his 
damaged television. But UIL felt the television it had offered was reasonable. So, it declined 
to increase its settlement offer. And it told Mr R it considered the television he had proposed 
would put him in a better position as it wasnt like-for-like.
As Mr R wasnt happy with how UIL proposed to settle his claim he complained to our 
service. Our investigator assessed the evidence provided by Mr R and UIL and upheld this 
complaint. Overall, they didnt think the replacement television Mr R had been offered could 
be said to be like-for-like. And they felt a fair way to resolve Mr Rs claim would be for his 
television to be replaced with the model he had proposed.
Mr R accepted our investigators view but UIL didnt. It thought the television it had proposed 
was the closest like-for-like model it could offer and it felt the television Mr R had proposed was better than that one it was intended to replace. UIL told our investigator this would 
constitute betterment, which wasnt permitted under Mr Rs policy. So, it asked for this 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide the crux of the complaint and ensure that I respond to the main issues. 
Where I havent commented on a specific complaint point raised by Mr R or UIL its not 
because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order 
to reach what I think is the right outcome for the complaint as a whole.
Its not in dispute that there was damage to the items Mr R claimed for, which UIL agrees are 
covered by the accidental damage section of his contents insurance policy. However, theres 
a disagreement between Mr R and UIL about the correct outcome of this claim insofar as it 
relates to UILs proposals to replace the damaged television. 
The crux of this complaint is whether UIL has acted reasonably and offered a replacement in 
line with the terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy. So, Ive carefully considered the terms 
and conditions of the policy Mr R holds with UIL. The parts of that policy that apply to Mr Rs 
claim are found on pages 7 and 9 of the policy booklet, which state as follows: 
Market value [is] the amount for which an article could reasonably be expected to be 
replaced immediately prior to the time of loss or damage with one substantially 
identicalThe most we will pay for an insured loss is, the amount required to repair the 
damage or the full cost of replacing the contents without deduction for depreciation, 
whichever is the lesser.
An insurance policy is intended to put a consumer back in the position they were in prior to 
their loss occurring or as close as is possible. An insurer isnt under an obligation to match 
every specification of a damaged item where that would put a customer in a better position 
than if the loss hadnt occurred. But it shouldnt put them in a worse positon either. 
I appreciate Mr Rs frustration at not receiving an identical television to the one that was 
damaged in November 2019. But, in this case, UIL isnt able to provide a match Mr Rs 
damaged television due to its age and advances in technology. So its duty here, as our 
investigator explained, is to provide the best match it can.
Its clear Mr R doesn't think that the replacement proposed by UIL can be considered as 
having the same technical specification. There are a number of differences between his 
damaged television and the model proposed by UIL. And I think it will be clearer if I address 
the main differences, which are relevant here, in turn.
Before I do though I should say that I can see Mr R has made UIL aware of the differences 
between his damaged television and the model its proposed. Our investigator has drawn up 
a table, which helpfully compares the models referred to in this complaint side by side. This 
table was included in the investigators view. So its been seen by Mr R and UIL. Ive used 
that table, in addition to what UIL and Mr R have said, to assist me in reaching a decision.
The replacement isnt a flagship model 
It isnt disputed that Mr Rs damaged television was a flagship model in 2014 when it was 
purchased. And I can see it cost him a lot when it was bought. Its clear he thinks UIL should replace his damaged television with a flagship model from 2019. However, I dont agree that 
UIL has to do that. Ill explain why.
As Ive already mentioned, the terms of Mr Rs policy require it to provide a television that is 
substantially identical. This term refers to the specification of the television rather than the 
status of a television as a flagship model. 
Im satisfied that, if UIL was to replace Mr Rs television with a flagship model from 2019, this 
would result in him receiving a substantially better television. This would be contrary to the 
terms of Mr Rs policy as it would place him in a better position overall. So, it would be unfair 
for me to ask UIL to offer Mr R a flagship model here.
The price of the replacement
I can see that Mr R appears to be unhappy at the cost of the replacement television hes 
been offered. However, while the television proposed by UIL is significantly cheaper than the 
model its intended to replace, the technology market moves on rapidly and costs can 
decrease quickly as new technologies emerge and existing technologies advance. 
Therefore, providing an equivalent television will become considerably cheaper over time. 
With that in mind it isnt reasonable to require UIL to provide a replacement of the same 
retail value as the original purchase price under the terms and conditions of the policy. I also 
wouldnt consider it reasonable to require it to as the policy is designed to provide a 
substantially identical television rather than one that cost the same at the time of purchase. 
The lack of 3D and webcam functionality
Mr Rs damaged television came with 3D and webcam functionality - the replacement 
proposed by UIL doesn't. However, Ive seen evidence that persuades me that the 3D and 
webcam features that were present on his damaged television are no longer available on 
televisions which are currently on sale. This is because that functionality has become 
obsolete. So, UIL isnt able to offer a replacement with the same technology, which is 
beyond its control.
UIL states the replacement its offered has newer technology. And I can see that the model 
UIL has proposed has 4K ultra HD technology, which Im satisfied sufficiently compensates 
for the loss of 3D functionality.
The number of HDMI ports
Mr R says his damaged television had four HDMI ports, which is one more than the model 
UIL is proposing. Based on what Ive seen its clear that HDMI connectivity is of huge 
importance to Mr R.
Mr R told our service he has a large collection of electrical items. And I can understand that, 
if he has several consoles or devices that use HDMI connectivity, downgrading from four to 
three ports could become unworkable as he would have to disconnect any devices he 
wanted to switch between.
I can see Mr R has found an alternative television that has the equal number of HDMI ports 
to the television that was damaged. Given the importance of HDMI connectivity to Mr R Im 
persuaded the television hes suggested is a more suitable like-for-like equivalent. I appreciate that UIL feels providing the television Mr Rs suggested would cause it to stay 
into betterment territory. But I dont agree. And I think that providing him with a television that 
has one less HMDI port would place him in a worse position, which would be unfair.   
The sound quality of the replacement television
Mr R has raised concerns about the sound quality of the replacement television when 
compared to what his previous model offered.
I can see his damaged television had 40w speakers whereas the replacement proposed by 
UIL has half that power. I can see his previous television had Dolby digital sound whilst the 
replacement doesnt. 
Again, I recognise UILs comments that the television Mr R has suggested constitutes 
betterment. But based on what I can see the replacement model its proposing is inferior in 
terms of sound to the model it is intended to replace. And I think this would therefore put Mr 
R in a worse position.
Putting things right
Overall, Im not satisfied that the television UIL has proposed is reasonable or that it offers a 
similar technical specification to the television its intended to replace. I agree with our 
investigator that the television proposed by UIL lacks important features such as HDMI 
connectivity and sound quality. And Im satisfied that the replacement model suggested by 
Mr R represents a more like-for-like television and is, therefore, a more appropriate match.
In order to resolve Mr Rs complaint fairly UIL should therefore make a payment equivalent 
to the retail price of the television he proposed. I can see its already paid Mr R a cash 
interim settlement. So that amount should be deducted from the amount that now falls due.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require UK Insurance Limited to make a 
payment to Mr R which is equivalent to the retail price of the television he proposed. 
However, from that sum it should deduct the interim settlement its already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman