DRN-4468138
The complaint
Mr G complains about Allium Money Limiteds decision to reject a claim he made under 
section 75 and section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel and battery system (the system).
What happened
In October 2019, Mr G purchased the system from a supplier using a fixed sum loan 
agreement from Allium. The loan was repayable through 180 monthly repayments of 
£151.12 each.
In January 2022, a claims management company (the CMC) made a claim to Allium on 
Mr Gs behalf under section 75 and section 140 of the Act. It said that:
The system had been misrepresented to Mr G as being self-funding, in that the 
savings from using the system would cover the cost of the loan over the 15-year loan 
term. 
There was a breach of contract because Mr G paid for a voltage optimiser that was 
never installed. 
Mr Gs relationship with Allium was unfair on him because Allium paid undisclosed 
commission to the supplier for selling the credit agreement.
Allium rejected Mr Gs claim. It said there was no misrepresentation on the part of the 
supplier, Mr G had received and accepted a refund for the voltage optimiser at the time the 
system was installed, and that there was no unfair relationship because it paid no 
commission in relation to the credit agreement.
Unhappy with this, Mr G made a complaint about this. Allium rejected this and the Financial 
Ombudsman Service was asked to look at the complaint. Our investigator thought the 
complaint should be upheld because Mr G had made significantly less in savings than 
shown in the quote.
Allium didnt accept this. It said that the quote states the savings would be affected by how 
Mr G uses electricity and other things, so the quoted savings should be used for illustration 
purposes only. The system is generating more electricity than expected, so is working 
properly, and it is not within the suppliers control how Mr G uses electricity, or the level of 
savings realised.
Because the complaint couldnt be resolved I was asked to make a decision. I issued a 
provisional decision explaining that I was not planning to uphold the complaint. 
Allium acknowledged this and confirmed it had nothing further to add. Mr G said that he still 
felt the system was not working as it should. He provided some screenshots from his mobile 
app showing some information about how the system is working. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have the power to make a decision on whether Alliums response to Mr Gs complaint was 
fair and reasonable. In doing so Ive taken into account section 75 and section 140 of the 
Act, as well as section 56 which makes it so that Allium can be held responsible for what the 
supplier told Mr G prior to him agreeing to take out the loan.
Mr G says he was told that the savings (including income from battery/grid trading) 
generated by the system would be enough to pay for the monthly loan repayments from the 
start. But I do not think it is likely he was told this.
The quotes provided to Mr G at the time of sale clearly show the estimated average monthly 
savings of £49.95 per month in the first year to be significantly less than the monthly loan 
repayments of £151.12 per month. And I think Mr G could easily have compared these 
figures  the savings being shown on the quotes and the loan repayments on the loan 
agreement.
Following on from this, there is a table in the quotes that clearly shows the estimated savings 
would not exceed the basic (or cash) price of the system until year 18  in itself longer than 
the loan term. 
Mr G also could have compared the total payable under the credit agreement of £27,298.70 
with the accumulated savings in the same table, which did not exceed this amount until year 
25  ten years after the loan wouldve been repaid. 
With this in mind it seems unlikely that Mr G was told the system would pay for itself through 
savings on a monthly basis or within the loan term.
The quotes included warnings that made clear the savings figures shown were only 
estimates and couldnt be guaranteed, given that in reality the savings would vary depending 
on a number of factors  including how electricity was used by Mr G, electricity prices and 
the ability of the battery/grid trading supplier to make an income and credit Mr G. So, I dont 
think it is likely that the system was presented as self-funding in the way Mr G has said.
With regards the voltage optimiser, I have seen evidence showing that Mr G was aware it 
was not installed and that he accepted a refund in light of this at the time. So, I think it is 
clear the contract was varied with his consent. I dont think there was a breach of contract.
The CMC has suggested the relationship between Mr G and Allium was unfair on him 
because of commission paid by Allium. But I am satisfied that no commission was paid. And 
Ive seen no other reason to conclude the relationship was unfair on Mr G. As such, I do not 
think it was unreasonable of Allium to not uphold Mr Gs claim.
Mr G says he has ongoing concerns about how the system is working. But from the 
information hes provided it appears the solar panels are generating electricity and that the 
battery is working as well. If Mr G has concerns that the system may have an ongoing fault 
or isnt working as it should then he should contact the supplier who ought to be able to look 
into this. But that is separate to my decision on this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman