DRN-3515657
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to refund a transaction he didnt 
recognise.
What happened
Mr R explained that hed lost his wallet with his debit card and an identity document inside it. 
Mr R wasnt initially aware that it was missing until he received a notification from Barclays 
that a cash withdrawal had been made from a self-service machine.
Mr R denied making this withdrawal and said he was at work at the time. He asked for a 
refund from Barclays. Notes from the initial conversation with Barclays indicate Mr R told 
them he usually used the last four digits on his card (as the Personal Identification Number  -
PIN).
Barclays provided a temporary credit of the funds to Mr R, but this was later reversed when 
Barclays looked into what had happened. They didnt think it was likely that Mr Rs PIN could 
have been correctly guessed by an unknown third party. They had no record of Mr Rs PIN 
being changed from the original one issued with his card some years earlier.
Mr R complained to Barclays about the issue and after looking at their investigation, 
Barclays again declined to refund Mr R. He then brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our 
investigators who asked both parties for information about the complaint.
Mr R explained that his wallet had been lost and his card used without his permission. He 
said he used his date of birth as the PIN and thinks this is how someone was able to guess 
the number. Barclays provided information about the transaction and records relating to the 
PIN issued to Mr R including access to Mr Rs online banking app.
After reviewing the complaint our investigator thought it was likely Mr R was responsible for 
the withdrawal and didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. Mr R disagreed with the outcome and 
wanted a further review of his complaint. He commented that hed previously changed the 
PIN using Barclays online banking app and that he was at work at the time of the withdrawal. 
Mr R disagreed about when hed reported the unknown transaction to Barclays. He said that 
he received notification and called Barclays after he finished work, rather than the following 
day (which Barclays records show). Mr R said he usually kept his wallet at home as he didnt 
use his card often.
Mr Rs complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Barclays can hold Mr R liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. 
Barclays can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr R authorised 
the transactions, but Barclays cannot say that the use of the card and PIN conclusively 
proves that the payments were authorised. 
Unless Barclays can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mr Rs account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Mr R. Ill now need to consider if sufficient evidence has been provided to show 
that Mr R consented to the transaction.
Mr R has explained that his wallet had been lost and he was unaware of this. In his wallet 
was his card and an identity document. He believes both of these lost items allowed and 
unknown third party to work out his PIN and use his card to make the disputed transaction 
and withdraw the funds. Mr R says he was at work at the time of the withdrawal.
Barclays case is that the PIN couldnt have been guessed and its not plausible that 
someone else made the transaction. Barclays didnt think there was an opportunity for 
someone to shoulder surf ( by observing the PIN being entered by Mr R at a prior 
transaction) the PIN because the card hadnt been used for some while.
Barclays provided records about Mr Rs PIN history which didnt show any change to the PIN 
from when it was issued to him. So, Ive thought about the plausible scenarios that could 
explain how the money was withdrawn. Essentially both the card and the PIN are required to 
withdraw cash. What that means here is whoever used the card would need to know the 
PIN. Taking Mr Rs version of events that hed previously changed it himself to reflect his 
date of birth (or the last four numbers on his card) in his banking app  that would still 
require the person using it to guess what  the PIN was. The PIN is four numbers and that 
could have been any combination of Mr Rs date of birth ( day/month, month/year, year etc) 
or any four numbers from his card. I dont think its likely someone unknown to him would 
have been able to guess it as there are too many possible combinations.
If Mr R had changed his PIN to a version of his date of birth or used numbers from his card, 
this would likely be a breach of the terms he signed up to which specifically prevents card 
users to use easily guessable PINs (including date of birth). So, even if I accepted that 
Barclays information was incomplete and the PIN was changed to a version of Mr Rs birth 
date/number from his card, he would still be liable for the disputed transaction because of 
this breach of the account terms.
Mr R believed that because he was at work when the withdrawal was made, this is evidence 
that hes due a refund because it wasnt him that used the card. The use of the card by 
someone who is authorised to use it would still make Mr R liable, likewise if he hadnt 
authorised anyone else to use his card then he wouldnt be liable. But here, because theres 
been no opportunity for someone to obtain the PIN through shoulder surfing and I think its 
implausible that the PIN was guessed  that would mean Mr R is liable because I think its 
more likely than not he was responsible for the withdrawal, whether it was him or someone 
with his authority to use the card.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman