DRN-1379982
 
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr W says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Halifax has provided me with a copy of the credit card application form completed at the 
time. I think its likely the selection of PPI on the form was computerised but I think its more 
likely than not that this was added following a discussion. Mr W has signed the form which 
indicates he wanted the cover and agreed to it. As Mr W was taking out credit, if he didnt 
want the PPI, I would have expected him to raise this before he signed the application.  
So having taken everything into account, I think Halifax made it clear that Mr W didnt have 
to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant 
remember this now many years later. 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr W so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And I think that Mr W 
seems to have had a need for the cover. I say that because Mr W told us he had no sick pay 
and modest other means such that he may have had to rely on his family to help him make 
his payments. The policy could have paid out for up to 12 months in the event of a 
successful claim if he was too ill to work, or if he lost his job, so I think Mr W would have 
found the policy useful. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems 
like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said but these points dont change my decision.
I have looked at all of the information available to me and for the same reasons as given by 
the adjudicator, and set out above, I do not think the policy was mis-sold. So Bank of 
Scotland plc doesnt need to refund everything Mr W paid for it. 
But Bank of Scotland plc has already offered to give Mr W back some of the cost of the PPI. 
I dont think it needs to do anything more. my final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman