DRN-3690801
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the Pension Review carried out by Sanlam Life & Pensions UK 
Limited (Merchant Investors Assurance Company Ltd at the time  and referred to in the 
remainder of my decision as Sanlam) in respect of advice he received to opt out of his 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) and to contract out of the State Earnings Related 
Pension Scheme (SERPS).
What happened
Advice
Mr W received the advice in November 1989. After following the advice he took out three 
personal pension policies through Sanlam.
Pension Review
In 2000, as part of an industry wide regulator led exercise, Sanlam reviewed the advice it 
gave Mr W. Following the review Sanlam wrote to Mr W with its findings. It concluded that he 
shouldnt have been advised to leave the OPS. This was because it felt the potential benefits 
Mr W might receive from the personal pensions were less than the potential value of the 
benefits that would have been available had he remained a member of the OPS.
Sanlam offered to put things right by paying for Mr W to be reinstated into the OPS  with 
part of the cost being met by the surrendering of the personal pensions. On 6 November 
2000 Mr W signed a deed confirming that the redress, when made, would be in full and final 
settlement of all claims against Sanlam in respect of the advice he received and the sale of 
the personal pensions.
On 29 April 2002 Sanlam wrote to Mr W to confirm the arrangements. It said it had recently 
sent a cheque to the OPS to buy Mr W back into it, with the remaining cost being met by the 
surrendering of the personal pensions and transferring their value to the OPS. It said this 
redress was designed to place Mr W back into the same position he would have been in had 
he remained in the OPS and not started the personal pensions.
On 15 June 2002 Mr W confirmed his acceptance of the settlement set out in Sanlams 
letter. Similar to the deed, by accepting the settlement Mr W agreed that it constituted a full 
and final settlement of any claims against Sanlam in respect of him opting-out of and/or not 
joining the OPS and taking out personal pensions instead.
On 19 June 2002 Sanlam wrote to Mr W to confirm that only two of the personal pension 
policies had been surrendered (as the OPS would only re-instate for past pensionable 
service on a contracted-in basis  so the personal pension created following Mr W 
contracting out of SERPS wouldnt be surrendered). It said:
this meant
oMr Ws SERPS benefits would continue to be provided under his Sanlam 
personal pension policy
oits previous statement about the redress putting Mr W into the same position he 
would have been in wasnt entirely correct
it still expected his final retirement benefit from the OPS and the SERPS pension to be 
substantially the same as the benefits he would have received from contracted-out 
membership of the OPS.
Complaint
In January 2020 Mr W complained to Sanlam about the sale of the pensions  he felt theyd 
been mis-sold. Sanlam said it had already investigated the sale and provided compensation. 
It found no reason to alter the previous decision from 2000.
Mr W remained unhappy so he referred the matter to us. We received it on 31 August 2020. 
He wasnt sure if Sanlams offer in 2000/2002 put him in the same position had the transfer 
and contracting out of SERPS not taken place. He wanted us to ensure that Sanlam had 
done everything to address the initial mis-selling and that he wasnt worse off.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I thought the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. Ive outlined the relevant parts of my provisional decision below, which form part of 
this final decision.
Nature of Mr Ws complaint
We can only consider complaints about activities that are/were regulated by the 
regulator. Although it was overseen by the regulator, the Pension Review wasnt a 
regulated activity  it was a redress scheme brought in to address widespread mis-
selling/unsuitable advice throughout the industry. Accordingly, I wasnt able to investigate 
or decide whether or not Sanlam carried out the Pension Review properly.
The advice given to Mr W was a regulated activity. So I could consider whether that 
advice was suitable. While I couldnt look at how the Pension Review was conducted, I 
could take it into account in determining if Sanlam needed to put anything right.
Our jurisdiction
Sanlam didnt think we could consider Mr Ws complaint as it felt he referred it to us too 
late. I concluded that Mr W had referred the complaint to us in time ie within three years 
of the date on which he became aware (or ought reasonably to have become aware) that 
he had cause for complaint.
I thought the letters sent to Mr W in 2000 and 2002 were sufficiently clear such that he 
knew/ought to have known that:
othe advice hed received was unsuitable
othe appropriate redress was for all the personal pension policies to be 
surrendered and for him to be reinstated into the OPS, and
othe original proposed redress couldnt be carried out.
But I was looking at whether that meant Mr W knew or ought to have known that he had 
a cause for complaint about the advice. And I didnt think it did. That was because I 
thought the 2002 letter effectively reassured Mr W that he wouldnt be worse off in retirement despite the fact he couldnt be reinstated into the OPS in respect of the 
SERPS contracted out element as originally planned. If Sanlam was effectively re-
assuring Mr W, I thought it was a stretch to conclude that he ought reasonably to have 
thought otherwise.
I therefore concluded that the letters sent to Mr W in 2000 and 2002 didnt start the three 
year time limit for Mr W to complain. I also hadnt seen anything else in the file that I 
thought ought to have given Mr W a cause for complaint in the intervening years.
The signed deed and acceptance
Sanlam also argued that Mr W signing the deed in 2000 prevented him from now 
bringing a further claim about the advice. It was clear that by signing the deed and 
confirming his acceptance of the settlement set out in Sanlams April 2002 letter Mr W 
effectively agreed that once the redress was made it would be in full and final settlement 
of all claims he had against Sanlam.
However, in deciding a complaint Im able to look beyond the law to what I consider to be 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. And irrespective where Sanlam stood 
legally on this issue, I didnt think it was fair in this case for the signed agreements to bar 
Mr W from having his complaint considered.
I said this because both offers that Mr W agreed to were effectively on the basis that hed 
be fully reinstated into the OPS and that all of his personal pensions would be 
surrendered. So there was an argument that Sanlam didnt (couldnt) uphold its side of 
the agreement as one pension wasnt surrendered. But setting that aside, Mr W was 
effectively forced into signing the deed and accepting the settlement offer in order to get 
the outcome Sanlam proposed  because if he didnt Sanlam wouldnt have proceeded 
with the reinstatement into the OPS. There was no reason in my opinion why Mr W 
wouldnt agree to the settlements if he was being told that they would put things right. So 
if Mr W later thought the settlement didnt fully compensate him I thought he should be 
entitled to have a complaint in that respect considered.
Was the advice unsuitable?
I didnt feel it was necessary for me to investigate or consider whether the advice to opt 
out of the OPS was suitable or what Sanlam now needed to do to put things right. That 
was because irrespective of any arguments about the suitability of the advice, Sanlam 
had already effectively put things rights by reinstating Mr W back into the OPS. That had 
the effect of him never having opted out in the first place ie it put him back into the 
position he would have been in but for the opt out.
However, I thought the situation with the advice to contract out of SERPS was slightly 
different because Sanlam felt the advice to contract out of SERPS and the subsequent 
sale of the personal pension was compliant. It was also because Sanlam wasnt able to 
reinstate this part of Mr Ws pension into the OPS. So I thought in the circumstances the 
fair approach was for me to consider whether the specific advice Mr W received to 
contract out of SERPS was fair.
Consumers were usually advised to contract out of SERPS because the anticipated 
growth of a personal pension and the annuity rates at the time made it seem likely they 
would be better off. However, over time investments didnt perform as well as expected 
and annuity rates fell. So consumers are now receiving (or expect to receive) less from 
the personal pensions they took out than from SERPS.A consumers age and earnings at the time are important factors in determining whether 
advice to contract out of SERPS was suitable. Thats because:
othe growth that might be achieved by a personal pension is affected by the 
number of years a consumer has until retirement  the longer there is until 
retirement the greater the chance that the consumer would be better off by 
contracting-out of SERPS
oconsumers paying a small amount of National Insurance would only get a very 
small payment into a personal pension from the State; and if those consumers 
contracted out of SERPS and started a personal pension, the charges on the 
personal pension would eat into most or all of the payments being made into the 
pension.
Businesses therefore set 'pivotal ages' and some businesses also set a minimum 
earnings level. Essentially, if a consumer was below the pivotal age, earned more than 
any minimum earnings amount and the advice had no impact on their membership of an 
employer pension scheme it was most likely that the consumer would have been better 
off by contracting-out of SERPS and, therefore, that advice to do so was suitable.
In this case the pivotal age set by Sanlam was 43. At the time of the advice Mr W was 29 
 well below the pivotal age. We have a library of various businesss pivotal ages from 
the time and, as a comparison, Mr Ws age was well below the pivotal age of the 
businesses I looked at too.
Sanlam told us that Mr Ws earnings at the time were well above the lower earnings level 
where consumers would likely benefit from contracting out of SERPS. It pointed to a 
document which said In 1988/99 earnings below £2,132 and above £15,860 do not 
qualify for contracting-out rebate purposes. It wasnt clear to me that the fact earnings 
below £2,132 didnt qualify for a rebate was necessarily the same as the minimum 
earnings being at that level. And as I said above only some businesses set them. But the 
other businesses I looked at started setting minimum levels in 1993 and they were 
between £4,500 and £7,900. Mr Ws earnings in 1989 are noted as £9,227.
With the above in mind, I concluded that Mr W was below the pivotal age and more likely 
than not earned more than any minimum earnings amount that was (or would have 
been) set. As Mr W was able to be reinstated into the OPS following the Pension 
Review, I concluded that contracting out of SERPS most likely had no impact on his 
membership of the OPS. It was therefore most likely that, at the time, Mr W would have 
been better off by contracting-out of SERPS.
Accordingly, I concluded that Sanlams advice to do so was suitable.
Responses to my provisional decision
Sanlam confirmed that it had nothing further to add.
Mr W said he was surprised at my decision, particularly as our investigator had upheld the 
complaint. He asked for clarification on what had changed. He said Sanlam confirmed in 
2000 that the advice hed received was inappropriate so it arranged for him to re-join the 
OPS, and it later confirmed that its statement about redress placing him in the same position 
he would have been had he not started a personal pension was incorrect. He therefore felt 
Sanlam should calculate whether he is now financially worse off.I explained to Mr W that I reached a different conclusion because I didn't think our 
investigator had assessed the complaint correctly. Our investigator's conclusion was 
essentially based on his view that Sanlam hadn't carried out the Pension Review in 2000 
correctly. However, I didn't think he had the authority to reach that conclusion because, as 
outlined above, we don't have jurisdiction to comment on or decide whether a business 
correctly carried out the Pension Review. My conclusion differed as it was based on an 
assessment as to whether the advice to contract out of SERPS was suitable.
Mr W also asked if Sanlam had already accepted the advice was wrong (ie in the Pension 
Review) why I now said the advice was suitable. I said that when Sanlam did the Pension 
Review it looked at the advice as a whole (ie mainly the transfer advice but also the contract 
out advice) whereas I only looked at the contract out advice as Sanlam had already put him 
back into position he would have been in regarding the transfer advice. And looking at the 
SERPS advice in isolation, because Mr W met the criteria at the time I felt the advice was
suitable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there are no further issues for me to consider, my final decision remains as per my 
provisional decision  for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman