DRN-3430368
The complaint
Miss M says her motor insurance policy was cancelled wrongly, and that ATLANTA 1 
INSURANCE SERVICES LIMITED then required her to pay too much in charges.
What happened
Miss Ms policy was cancelled after 17 days, as shed committed a serious speeding offence. 
She disagreed with the decision to cancel the policy and with the charges made. She said 
shed paid Atlanta a £92 deposit, yet it required her to pay a further £174.18 on cancellation. 
Atlanta said the insurer had retained £91.98 (for the time Miss M was covered by its policy, 
plus a cancellation charge). Atlanta said the rest of the sum required represented its own 
charges, including its cancellation fee. 
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Ms complaint against Atlanta. She also set up a 
separate complaint against the insurer about the cancellation. She thought it was fair that 
Miss M was charged by the insurer for time on cover  and noted that Atlantas charges 
were set out in its terms and conditions, which Miss M had agreed to at the start. 
Miss M said she shouldnt have to pay any cancellation charges, as it wasnt her decision to 
cancel the policy. She said Atlanta shouldnt claw back any commission. She didnt agree 
she should pay its set-up charges, as she got the policy online, rather than by dealing with 
Atlantas advisor. She objected to debt collectors being instructed. And she said wed helped 
her get a good outcome in a similar complaint she made against another broker, so we 
should do so here, too. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision, upholding the complaint in part, as follows: 
Atlantas terms of business were made available to Miss M before she bought the policy 
online and were sent to her by email when she did so. 
We think its reasonable for a broker to charge for setting up a policy. Miss M says as she 
didnt speak to anyone at Atlanta, theres no justification for it. But administrative tasks have 
to be carried out by a broker when a policy starts. Atlantas set-up charge was £100, which is 
much higher than usual. When we queried it, Atlanta said Miss M had a telematics policy 
and its set-up costs were greater than for a standard policy. It said extra tasks - such as 
issuing a black box device and setting up a portal to record the data from it - had to be 
done. I dont think the explanation Atlanta has provided justifies charging twice the standard 
set-up fee. I think it should reduce the charge by £25. 
Atlanta disallowed the small broker discount Miss M benefited from when she took the 
policy, in line with the details set out in its terms of business. I think that was reasonable. It 
also clawed back £25 of the commission it lost due to the cancellation. We think its fair to do 
that if a broker has set out in its terms of business what sum (or percentage charge) will be 
made on cancellation. As Atlanta did that, I dont think it acted unreasonably. 
Miss M believes that as she didnt want the policy to be cancelled, it isnt fair for her to have 
to pay cancellation charges. But they apply regardless of which party cancels a policy. We 
think its fair for a broker or an insurer to make a reasonable cancellation charge  but we 
dont think its reasonable for the insurer and the broker to do so. In this case, Atlanta says 
the insurer retained £56 as its cancellation charge. Atlantas terms of business state that it 
will charge £50 on cancellation (although in recent correspondence it said it charged £75). 
But Miss M has already paid a cancellation charge to the insurer, and I dont think it would 
be fair for her to be charged twice. So I think Atlanta should waive its cancellation charge.
Miss M doesnt think the policy should have been cancelled, but that decision was made by 
the insurer. In relation to Miss Ms complaint about another broker, we look at each case on 
its own merits. But Ive looked at the other complaint. The circumstances in it were not 
similar to the ones here  and the broker put matters right after its own investigation. 
I think in general Atlanta acted reasonably in dealing with the cancellation of Miss Ms policy, 
and I dont think it was unreasonable for it to instruct a debt collection agency. But based on 
the details Ive seen so far, Im minded to conclude that it should reduce the sum owed by 
Miss M, as explained above. 
 
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. 
Atlanta said it shouldnt be required to reduce its set-up charge, as telematics boxes cost 
£70 on average - on top of its other costs and all the work it did in setting up the policy. It 
pointed out that some brokers charge much more than Atlanta for setting up similar policies.  
It also said that it (as opposed to the insurer) shouldnt have to waive its cancellation charge, 
as it did most of the work on the policy. 
Miss M said she wouldnt be paying £400 for a years insurance when shed only had two 
weeks cover  and that she wanted justification outside the ombudsmans decision. We 
asked her to clarify these points. Miss M said the cost of the telematics box was included in 
the premium and wasnt part of Atlantas set-up costs. She said there was no reference 
anywhere in the terms and conditions about being charged for it on cancellation. She also 
said she should only have to pay for what shed used - and that the reason she committed 
the driving offence hadnt been taken into consideration by the insurer or Atlanta.  
     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with Miss M that she should only be charged for the cover shes used  and I think 
thats what has happened. The £92 retained by the insurer reflects the cost of insurance 
from it for 17 days and its £56 cancellation fee. I know Miss M thinks the circumstances that 
led to the offence should have been considered. But the insurer chose to cancel the policy 
despite the explanation Miss M gave it for her driving behaviour. This complaint is against 
Atlanta, and it didnt make the decision to cancel the policy.  
The sum Miss M is being chased for reflects the outstanding charges Atlanta says are owed 
to it. I agree that a broker usually carries out most of the work when a policys cancelled and 
I understand why Atlanta thinks a cancellation fee is justified. But the insurer has charged a 
cancellation fee, and it isnt fair for Miss M to have to pay twice. I think Atlanta should be 
able to liaise with the insurer about the issue. In my opinion, thats a reasonable way forward 
and it prevents further inconvenience, upset and an unfair charge for Miss M.
 The supplementary information referred to in Atlantas terms of business (for consumers 
who have a telematics policy) says the cost of the box is included in the overall cost of the 
policy. So I dont think Atlanta can include that cost as part of its set up charge. But Atlanta 
carried out administrative work in setting up the policy, and telematics policies will require 
extra tasks to be done. We think its fair for brokers to make a reasonable charge for the 
work they do - but based on the details it provided, I still think Atlanta should reduce its 
charge by £25. I dont think its relevant that some brokers may charge more than it does for 
setting up telematics policies. Some may charge less  and in any event, I can only look at 
the facts of this complaint and decide what I think is fair and reasonable here.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require ATLANTA 1 INSURANCE 
SERVICES LIMITED to reduce its set up fee by £25 and to waive its cancellation charge.      
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 June 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman