DRN-1383392
 
The complaint
Ms L says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny (Sunny), irresponsibly lent 
to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about one running credit facility and six short-term loans (Ill refer to them 
all as loans in my decision and I have numbered them for ease of reference) Sunny 
provided to Ms L between November 2014 and December 2018. Ms Ls borrowing history is 
as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 26/11/2014 31/03/2015 Running credit £750.00
2 16/11/2017 01/06/2018 Instalment £750.00
3 01/02/2018 28/02/2018 Instalment   £50.00
4 15/09/2018 28/03/2019 Instalment £750.00
5 18/10/2018 27/04/2019 Instalment £100.00
6 27/11/2018 27/04/2019 Instalment £100.00
7 05/12/2018 27/04/2019 Instalment £100.00
 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Ms Ls complaint and thought the loans from loan five 
onwards shouldnt have been given. And our adjudicator thought that all information about 
loan six was adverse and should be removed from Ms Ls credit file. 
Sunny disagreed but did make an offer to uphold the complaint for loan six. We put the offer 
to Ms L, but she decided not to accept it and the case was to be put to an ombudsman.
In the meantime, another of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and agreed with the 
outcome to uphold the complaint for loans five and six. But didnt think all information about 
loan six should be removed from Ms Ls credit file, only adverse information should be 
removed. The parties were made aware of this. 
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me in my role as ombudsman to 
decide. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms L could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Ms L could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ms L didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to four shouldnt be upheld. 
Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I 
wont be making a decision about this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Ms L had with Sunny. So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans she took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ls complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to partially 
uphold the complaint and Ill now explain why. 
I should say at this point that I agree with the adjudicator that there are two chains of loans. 
Loan two wasnt taken until more than two years after the running credit  loan one  was repaid. So, I think when loan two was applied for, it was reasonable for Sunny to assume 
that Ms L had overcome the financial difficulty she had been in that had caused her to apply 
for loan one. 
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate check for loan five would most likely have 
shown that Ms L was struggling to manage her finances. And I think by loan five Sunny 
should have been looking to build a bigger picture of Ms Ls financial circumstances as she 
had been borrowing for 11 months in the second chain of borrowing. And when loan five was 
applied for loan four, was still outstanding and which had been taken out only the month 
before.
Sunny has told us that its product allows its consumers to take more than one loan at any 
one time up to a notional credit limit. But I think that by returning to borrow again only a 
month later after loan four, albeit for a smaller amount, Ms L was showing signs that she 
wasnt managing her money. 
At the loan five application, if Sunny had ascertained more about Ms Ls financial 
circumstances  income and expenditure etc  it would have found that as well as loan four 
being outstanding Ms L was in financial difficulty. 
I say this because Ms L has provided us with her bank statements from the time. But this 
wasnt the only way Sunny could have ascertained her financial circumstances. It could have 
asked for pay slips, copies of bills etc to enable it to have built up a bigger picture about Ms 
Ls financial position. And Ms Ls bank statements show she was making payments to debt 
collections agencies and had another outstanding loan elsewhere, as well as the outstanding 
loan she had with Sunny. 
I think this makes clear Ms L was in financial difficulty. If Sunny had carried out a 
proportionate check when loan five was applied for, I think it would have caused Sunny to 
reconsider whether it was fair to carry on lending to Ms L, as I dont think it was. 
So, like the adjudicator Im also upholding the complaint about loans five and six Sunny 
should put things right.
Putting things right 
refund all interest and charges Ms L paid on loans five and six;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans five and six from Ms Ls credit file;
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Ms L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Ms Ls complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
 Catherine Langley
Ombudsman