DRN-2082394
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy at how British Gas Services Limited dealt with a boiler repair under a home 
emergency policy.
What happened
A British Gas engineer visited Mr Ls property on 1 January 2020 to fix a boiler breakdown. 
But the boiler wasnt fixed, and Mr L was told itd need to be replaced. British Gas quoted 
around £4,000 for a replacement boiler. But, on 12 January, Mr L had the boiler fixed by an 
independent plumber at the cost of £50.
Between 1 and 12 January Mr L and his family were in a property without proper heating. 
And he had to take his mother-in-law, who was staying with him while she was recovering 
from cancer treatment, to another family member 85 miles away, as she couldnt stay in an 
unheated property in the middle of winter.
Mr L has complained that British Gas told him that his boiler couldnt be repaired and needed 
to be replaced, when this wasnt the case. British Gas upheld his complaint and offered £150 
compensation - £100 to cover the mileage for two trips to take and bring back his mother-in-
law, and £50 to cover the cost of the boiler repair.
Mr L didnt think that hed been properly compensated for the two weeks without heating, 
and for the stress caused by the situation. So hes brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for us to investigate.
Our investigator said the compensation British Gas paid for Mr Ls expenses  the mileage 
and the boiler repair  was reasonable. But she also though British Gas should also 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience they caused. 
She said Mr L had caring responsibilities for an elderly relative, who was recovering from a 
serious medical condition, and had the inconvenience of having to make two long round trips 
as a result. She also said that Mr L and his family had to spend two weeks without heating 
during winter. So she thought British Gas should pay Mr L an additional £100 to compensate 
him for this.
British Gas didnt agree with the investigator. They felt the £150 theyd already offered was 
reasonable in the circumstances, but they were prepared to increase this by £50  and not 
by the £100 recommended by the investigator. Mr L didnt accept British Gass proposal, so 
this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
The basic facts of this matter arent in dispute. Given the age of Mr Ls boiler, British Gas 
have been recommending a replacement for some time. But this was because of its age, 
efficiency and because some parts were obsolete. So, when the engineer visited on 1 
January 2020, and a part was replaced which didnt fix the fault, the engineer was reluctant 
to investigate further in case another part which was obsolete had failed, so the repair 
couldnt be completed. Instead, they quoted for a replacement boiler.
Had British Gas investigated further, and if theyd discovered that an obsolete part had 
failed, then Mr L wouldve been in the same position  British Gas had already told him the 
boiler, which wasnt working, couldnt be repaired and needed to be replaced. So I dont 
understand the engineers reluctance to investigate further. Because, if the engineer had 
investigated further, they wouldve found that the boiler could be repaired easily and cheaply 
 this is what the independent plumber found.
British Gas have said that regrettably, {Mr L} didnt give us the opportunity to see if other 
repairs could be made. After being told that the boiler wasnt repairable by British Gas, and 
that he had to pay for a replacement instead, I fully understand why Mr L wouldnt call British 
Gas out again and ask them to try and fix the boiler again. 
And I understand why, when the independent plumber said the boiler could be repaired 
immediately for £50, Mr L didnt ask British Gas to come and fix it instead  hed already 
been without heating for 12 days and he now had the option of having the heating fixed 
straight away or waiting a further period of time without heating before British Gas could 
come out to his property again. And Im glad to see that British Gas have reimbursed the 
cost of the repair as this is something Id expect them to do.
But Mr L was left in a home without heating for 12 days, in the middle of winter, as a direct 
result of British Gass actions. And when the boiler could be quickly and easily repaired, I 
consider this to be unacceptable. While British Gas have compensated Mr L for the direct 
costs of the impact this had on Mr Ls mother-in-law  theyve covered the cost of the 
mileage to get her to and from a place where she could recover from her medical condition  
this doesnt cover the impact that living in an unheated home had on Mr L and his family. 
And I agree with the investigator that British Gas should compensate him for this.
British Gas have said they left Mr L with a fan heater. While this may be suitable for a short 
period, for example overnight while parts are being ordered, I dont consider a single fan 
heater to be a reasonable alternative to a fully heated house for 12-days in winter. So I dont 
consider this to be suitable compensation.
Putting things right
Ive no doubt that this was a very stressful time for Mr L, given the circumstances. The 
investigator has recommended a payment of £100 to recognise this. I think a payment of 
£100 is a fair one and in line with what I would direct in similar circumstances. So, I direct 
British Gas to pay Mr L£100 in recognition of the impact hes experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Ls complaint. British Gas Services Limited 
must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman