DRN-3301672
The complaint
Mrs P complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) failed to deal with her Individual 
Savings Account transfer request correctly.
What happened
Mrs P says she applied to open a new Individual Savings Account (ISA) with a new provider 
offering a better interest rate, but on receipt of that providers transfer instructions, 
Nationwide failed to send the full amount requested. Mrs P says the transfer instructions 
given to Nationwide, by her new provider, clearly stated that all the current years 
subscriptions were to be sent along with a partial transfer of £60,000 of previous years 
subscriptions, making a total of £80,000 to be transferred.
Mrs P says a member of Nationwides staff admitted over the telephone, it had made a 
mistake. Mrs P says despite her providing evidence to show it had made an error, 
Nationwide said it had done nothing wrong apart from the time it took to action the ISA 
transfer of this and other transfers and  only offered her £75 by way of an apology. Mrs P 
says Nationwide have continually issued false statements about this matter and this has 
resulted in her spending a considerable amount of unnecessary time dealing with the matter. 
Mrs P says Nationwide should reimburse her with the lost interest on the amount it failed to 
send her new ISA provider, plus compensation for the time she has spent dealing with this 
matter.  
Nationwide says it correctly carried out the ISA transfer instructions it received from Mrs Ps 
new provider as they had been asked to transfer a total of £60,000. Nationwide says the 
compensation payment of £75 was for the delay in sending the ISA transfers Mrs P had 
requested. 
Mrs P wasnt happy with Nationwides response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Nationwide had acted correctly based on the transfer instructions the new 
ISA provider had given to them and the wording partial transfer had caused some 
confusion here. The investigator felt the new provider should have stated that £80,000 was 
to be transferred. The investigator says Nationwide increased its total compensation offer to 
£160, to take into account a date error on its final response letter and for Mrs Ps travelling 
costs, which the investigator felt was fair.  
Mrs P didnt agree with the investigators view and provided further clarification and 
information from her new ISA provider for the investigator to consider. 
On receipt of this further information the investigator shared this with Nationwide who then 
accepted it had sent the wrong amount to Mrs Ps new ISA provider. As a result, and after 
recalculating the interest owed following further communication with Mrs P, Nationwide 
agreed to pay her a sum of £479.85 representing the interest Mrs P would have earned if the 
full amount had been sent as requested and an additional £275 by way of compensation. 
The investigator revised her view to say she now upheld Mrs Ps initial complaint but felt 
despite Mrs Ps opinion that the compensation offered to her wasnt sufficient, she felt it was. 
Mrs P didnt agree with the compensation offered and asked for the matter to referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I also uphold the initial complaint surrounding the ISA transfer and like the 
investigator I am satisfied the compensation offered by Nationwide is sufficient, and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting and frustrating for Mrs P to see that 
Nationwide failed to correctly carry out her ISA transfer instructions and then, despite her 
providing initial evidence surrounding the transfer instruction, for it to still deny any wrong-
doing. 
The first thing to say here is Nationwide, after Mrs P provided further clarification and 
documentation from her new ISA provider, accepted it had made a mistake. Nationwide 
agreed it should have transferred £80,000 and not £60,000 to Mrs Ps new ISA provider and 
have agreed to pay her the interest she would have earned on her new ISA, had they sent 
the full amount requested. The interest calculation, after further negotiation, was agreed at a 
sum of £479.85. In addition, Nationwide have now agreed to pay Mrs P an additional £275 
by way of compensation for the distress this has caused. 
I understand that Mrs P doesnt feel the compensation goes far enough to cover her time 
and inconvenience over this matter. As the main part of the complaint regarding the ISA 
transfer has now been agreed by both parties, I wont be making any further comments on 
this, as it  has been well documented previously, other than to say perhaps Nationwide could 
have got to that outcome sooner than it did. So here I will focus my decision on whether the 
compensation offered by Nationwide is fair. 
Mrs P strongly feels that Nationwide have provided false statements over the course of her 
complaint and have attempted to hide from the fact it made a mistake to avoid paying her 
what was due. Mrs P has informed this service she intended to add to her compensation 
claim each time she had to correspond with Nationwide directly, or via this service. 
While I can understand Mrs Ps frustration over this matter, I cant say there is any evidence 
to suggest Nationwide knew all along it had made a mistake and tried to deliberately mislead 
her to avoid paying what she was entitled to. Its fair to say from time to time businesses will 
make mistakes and even when presented with what appears to be evidence to the contrary, 
it can still get things wrong. I am satisfied in all likelihood, that is what happened here, rather 
than Nationwide deliberately refusing to pay the monies owed to her, as a result of its 
mistake. 
Nationwide have offered to pay Mrs P £275 in addition to the compensation of £160 it has 
already paid her, totalling £435. While Ms P may not agree, its not my role to penalise 
businesses when mistakes are made but to ensure the consumer is put back into a financial 
position they would have been in, prior to any such mistakes  additionally to ensure an 
appropriate award for any inconvenience caused is offered, and Im satisfied Nationwide has 
here. I  wouldnt support further compensation for any time Mrs P has spent dealing with the 
complaint and further information provided to support that  after all this is part and parcel of dealing with the complaint presented to this service. 
While Mrs P will be disappointed with my decision I feel the redress offered by Nationwide is 
sufficient here. 
Mrs P should contact Nationwide directly or via the investigator to direct where the interest 
and compensation payment should be paid, should she wish to accept it. 
Putting things right
I instruct Nationwide Building Society to pay Mrs P £479.85 representing the interest Mrs P 
would have earned had the ISA transfer been correctly made. In addition, it should pay Mrs 
P a further £275 by way of compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Nationwide Building Society to pay Mrs P £479.85 representing the interest Mrs P 
would have earned had the ISA transfer been correctly made. In addition, it should pay Mrs 
P a further £275 by way of compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman