DRN-2965212
The complaint
Mr A complained TSB Bank plc had put him at risk through their procedures and provided 
unsatisfactory service.
What happened
Mr A complained, having tried to log on to his account online when he had forgotten his 
password. He is unhappy with the procedure used by TSB when it comes to seeking a one-
time use passcode when logging in online. He thinks its unsatisfactory for TSB to display the 
last four digits of the customers phone number to which the one-time use password will be 
sent.
Mr A thinks this system is open to abuse by fraudsters and he said a one-time password 
should only be sent if the correct information (account username and password) is entered.
Mr A noticed that when hed entered the wrong password, the system told him he had five 
attempts before being locked. However the system didnt update this information when he 
continued to enter the wrong password numerous times and he continued to be told he had 
five attempts. Mr A felt this meant a fraudster might have infinite attempts and as such might 
guess his password.
TSB didnt uphold all of Mr As complaint. They let him know they felt the system for 
requesting a one-time password was sufficiently safe and ensured personal information was 
protected. TSB acknowledged an ongoing technical problem that had caused people to 
receive messages that they still had a number of attempts left to enter a password, even 
when they continued to enter the wrong password or had used up the number of attempts.
 
TSB said that although this message appeared as part of the technical issue, the number of 
attempts had always been limited. They accepted the technical problem meant the wrong 
message had been displayed to Mr A and they arranged to pay £30 into his account to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. In their letter they also acknowledged Mr A 
could contact them if he had incurred any costs in respect of this matter and they let him 
know they were able to offer additional support to customers who might be assisted in this 
way.
Mr A didnt think TSB had offered enough. He felt TSB hadnt taken his concerns seriously 
enough or provided satisfactory customer service. He said hed been petrified by the 
experience; he hadnt slept for some days and had become a shell of a man. Mr A thought 
TSB ought to pay him £900; he said this would enable him to move his banking.
An investigator at this service thought TSB had offered enough in the circumstances, so he 
didnt uphold Mr As complaint. He understood Mr A had been concerned, but the 
investigator accepted TSBs explanation they display only the last four digits of a customers 
number instead of the full number to keep the number secure. And he noted this step was 
only required where a customer cant remember their password, and TSB need to send a 
one-time password to the customer allow them to log in. 
In respect of Mr As concerns around being able to make more than five incorrect password 
attempts, the investigator thought TSB had done enough. TSB had acknowledged they were 
experiencing a technical issue and had explained that although the number of attempts 
didnt reduce on the screen, a customer did only have five valid attempts.
The investigator didnt think TSB had taken Mr As concerns lightly. Overall Mr A hadnt 
suffered a financial loss, and the investigator concluded the £30 paid to Mr A was enough.
Mr A didnt agree. He thought the investigator had failed to appreciate the emotional distress 
hed been caused; and he didnt think the investigator had properly understood his 
complaint. He said the investigator had:
Failed to understand that Mr A had tried to log in more than five times, but his 
account hadnt been blocked.
Failed to understand or take into account that the text message sent with the one-
time password didnt mention it had been requested.
Failed to understand that a fraudster could use the text message sent by TSB to 
persuade a person they were TSB.
Failed to see how knowing the last four numbers of a phone number along with a 
username could lead to the identification of a person and this was a clear breach of 
the rules around data protection.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr As complaint about TSB. I think the £30 TSB paid Mr A to 
acknowledge the impact of their technical problems was enough in the circumstances. 
Mr A is unhappy about some of TSBs security measures. These are measures put in place 
for people who forget their passwords, and are commonplace measures used by many 
services. I havent seen anything here that persuades me Mr A was exposed, or 
unreasonably exposed to any significant or unwarranted additional risk. I dont accept the 
display of the last four digits of Mr As phone number put his identity at risk. The message 
that a one-time use passcode is being sent to a particular number will only appear when 
someone with Mr As username tries to log in but doesnt have the password. The one-time 
use password will be sent to the number already associated with the account holder. 
Mr A would be expected not to share his username with anyone else. Even if a fraudster 
obtained the username and tried to log in, they would need to have control of the phone 
number already associated with the account, to obtain the one-time use password. This isnt 
a reasonably foreseeable risk, such as to make TSBs approach unreasonable or unusual 
here.
Ive seen Mr A comments that the prompt message that comes out to the phone with the 
one-time use password, doesnt mention that this has been sent in response to a request. 
Im not persuaded this demonstrates any error or failure on the part of TSB. I dont think it 
unreasonable that if a customer receives a one-time use password from their bank, they will, 
in the majority of instances, know this is in response to their request. If such a password 
arrives unexpectedly to a customer, this will not put their account at risk as the code has 
been sent to the genuine customer, who can then contact the bank to query why this has 
been sent. It might be considered an additional security measure, as the customer trying to 
log in, will be able to check that the password is going to be sent to their own known phone 
number.I acknowledge what Mr A says about a fraudster who might contrive to persuade a customer 
they are a bank and share a password. But I dont accept this makes the process used to 
provide a one-time password fundamentally flawed or unreasonable. This is speculative and 
implies additional impersonation or fraudulent activity to reach this possibility. In any event it 
isnt what happened here. 
Ive seen Mr A says his account wasnt blocked after he made a number of failed guesses at 
his password. Im not persuaded TSB were required to block Mr As account and I am 
satisfied that the number of valid attempts was limited, despite the incorrect message 
appearing, so further attempts were being blocked.
I dont consider the security measures around the provision of the one-time use password 
unusual or unreasonable. Any wider concerns about the approach may be a matter for the 
regulator, but I dont accept the measures exposed Mr A to unreasonable risk.
Nor do I accept Mr As submission that knowledge of the username in conjunction with 
knowledge of the last four digits of the phone number associated with the user name, could 
either lead to the identification of a person or creates any breach around the data protection 
rules. This is not the main thrust of the complaint, and I have not reached any finding here 
about personal data. But I dont accept from what Ive seen, the matter complained about, 
was an activity in contravention of the laws on data protection. If Mr A has wider concerns 
around this type of security measure, it would not be a matter for this service.
TSB experienced problems with the information displayed when customers tried to enter 
their password, at the time Mr A tried to log in. TSB say that although this meant it looked 
like someone had additional attempts after the specified number of failures, this wouldnt 
actually have been the case. In other words, Mr A might have thought he was continuing to 
enter various guesses at his password, beyond the number of attempts allowed, but in the 
background, his attempts would not have been valid attempts beyond the set number. I can 
understand why Mr A was concerned that it looked like multiple attempts to guess a 
password were possible, but it wasnt the case. I think £30 was enough here to meet the 
impact of his concern, even though ultimately, he was concerned about an activity that 
wasnt possible.
Mr A initially felt a one-time password should only be sent if someone correctly entered their 
username and account password. I hope he understands why that isnt practicable, as this is 
a system designed to support customers who have forgotten their password.
Mr A told us hed been so concerned about the events, that hed immediately transferred his 
funds away from TSB.  And he told us how events had made him feel and why he didnt 
think TSB had taken his concerns seriously enough. I am sorry to hear Mr A was so 
distressed by what happened when he forgot his password. This doesnt mean TSBs usual 
process, adopted here, was flawed or wrong. 
Ive seen how TSB responded to Mr A in respect of what happened and his complaint, and 
although the complaints handling element isnt something we generally consider at this 
service, I havent seen anything that makes me think TSB failed to take Mr A seriously, or to 
acknowledge his concerns and provide their answer and additional information.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding Mr As complaint against TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman