DRN-2965477
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy that Nottingham Building Society (NBS) was not willing to grant 
their mortgage application  which included porting a mortgage they already held.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T took out a mortgage with NBS in 2017. They initially selected a two-year fixed 
interest rate deal. In 2019, when that interest rate deal ended, they selected a new deal  
this time a five-year fixed interest rate. This meant, if the mortgage was repaid within that 
period of time, theyd incur an early repayment charge (ERC).
In April 2020 they spoke to NBS about porting their mortgage to a new property. They were 
also looking to borrow some additional funds. NBS initially thought it would be able to 
provide the mortgage Mr and Mrs T requested.
Mr and Mrs T contacted NBS to proceed with an application in July 2020. After reviewing 
matters again, including Mr and Mrs Ts situation and its updated lending criteria, NBS said it 
wasnt able to lend the amount that Mr and Mrs T were looking to borrow.
Mr and Mrs T complained to NBS. They said they felt the requirements NBS were putting in 
place to show proof of income were impractical, particularly in their circumstances, and 
effectively meant that their mortgage was not portable. And this was contrary to how the 
mortgage had been sold to them. They were also unhappy that theyd need to pay an ERC if 
they moved their mortgage elsewhere.
NBS said it didnt think it had done anything wrong as the lending decision it had made had 
been carried out in line with its lending criteria at the time. And it considered the requested 
lending was not affordable.
Unhappy with this response Mr and Mrs T asked our service to consider their complaint. I 
understand that they redeemed their mortgage with NBS in December 2020, incurring an 
ERC.
One of our investigators looked into matters but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
She said she felt NBS had assessed the application fairly, in line with its lending criteria at 
the time. And she didnt think it had done anything wrong by declining to lend the amount 
requested, as it deemed this to not be affordable. So, as the ERC had been charged in line 
with the terms of the mortgage, she didnt think NBS needed to waive or refund this fee.
Mr and Mrs T did not agree with the investigators opinion. As a result, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is worth saying to begin with that porting a mortgage involves an entirely new 
application, for a new mortgage. If a porting application is successful the new mortgage 
retains some of the features of the old mortgage  usually, amongst other things, the interest 
rate. But the mortgage itself is based on a new lending decision by the business, assessed 
at the time it is made  against the lending criteria in place at the time of the porting 
application. Indeed, the mortgage offer NBS issued to Mr and Mrs T in 2017 confirmed that 
the mortgage they took was portable but one of the terms that would apply to any request to 
port was your mortgage application for the new property will be assessed against our 
underwriting criteria at the time.
Mr and Mrs T have said that, because of NBSs requirements around providing proof of 
income, their mortgage was not in fact portable, based on their circumstances. And so, they 
think it was potentially mis-sold. But I dont agree. The mortgage was portable, as it was 
originally described when taken out. And this I think is demonstrated by NBS considering the 
application. Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances meant they werent able to meet the lending 
criteria in place at the time they asked to port the mortgage and borrow additional funds. But 
that is not the same as the mortgage not in fact being portable. Rather it is a matter of the 
application being declined.
Ive thought about whether NBS decision to decline to lend the amount Mr and Mrs T 
wanted to borrow was fair. 
NBS is entitled to set its own lending criteria, based on its commercial judgement. And NBS 
has said that it didnt think the amount Mr and Mrs T wanted to borrow  porting their existing 
mortgage amount in full and taking additional borrowing  was affordable, based on its 
lending criteria. This was because proof of income, in the form it requires, could not be 
provided. And it was unable to consider some of Mr and Mrs Ts income.
Mr and Mrs T have said it was not possible to provide the proof of income NBS asked for as 
they were moving a significant distance with Mrs T starting new employment. And NBS 
criteria of requiring a number of payslips to provide proof of income was not practical in their 
circumstances. But while I take on board what theyve said, again NBS is entitled to decide 
its lending criteria. And in the circumstances, Mr and Mrs T could not meet those criteria. 
I can see, from the contact notes available, that NBS said itd be willing to accept fewer 
payslips than would usually be required. Mr and Mrs T said this was still not practical. But 
NBS wasnt required to offer this alternative. And it appears to have applied the same criteria 
it would to any application for lending. 
I can see Mr and Mrs T then told NBS they would make alternative arrangements, with Mrs T 
not changing employer, in the hope that this would mean the application was approved. And 
Ive seen evidence that NBS considered the application again based on these alternative 
circumstances. But it was still outside of NBS lending criteria, as it was deemed 
unaffordable based on an assessment of their circumstances, including their income and 
expenditure. NBS has provided details from its lending criteria, to explain why this was the 
case. And again, these criteria appear to have been applied correctly. So, overall, I dont 
think NBS has treated Mr and Mrs T unfairly.There are regulations that have flowed from the FCAs Mortgage Market Review (MMR). 
These brought about stricter lending criteria, to encourage businesses to lend more 
responsibly. The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make 
changes to their mortgages might have difficulties with this if they passed the old rules but 
not the new ones. So certain rules were introduced, allowing businesses to set aside new 
rules around affordability, in certain circumstances. NBS declined to provide the requested 
lending to Mr and Mrs T based on deeming it unaffordable. So, as Mr and Mrs T were 
existing customers, Ive thought about whether, under the rules I mentioned, NBS had 
grounds to set its criteria on affordability aside. But having looked at this, Mr and Mrs Ts 
application didnt fall into a category that would allow these rules to be set aside. 
Taking all of this into account I dont think NBS did anything wrong by applying its standard 
lending criteria to Mr and Mrs Ts application.  And as their application fell outside of these 
criteria, I dont think NBS did anything wrong in not agreeing to lend the amount they wanted 
to borrow, including declining to port the entire balance of their existing mortgage.
Mr and Mrs T have said that NBS refusing to lend meant they needed to look for a mortgage 
elsewhere and caused them to incur an ERC. But as I dont think NBS did anything wrong 
when deciding it could not lend at the level Mr and Mrs T wanted, I cant reasonably require 
it to refund the ERC applied after the mortgage was repaid in full within the fixed interest rate 
period.
Mr and Mrs T have also raised issue with how the application was handled and the 
communication by NBS. But based on the evidence Ive seen, the application appears to 
have been handled promptly. And I havent seen anything to indicate that NBS caused any 
unreasonable delays.
I know Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with NBSs lending decision. But, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think this decision has been taken unreasonably. And taking everything 
into account, while I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs T, I dont think 
NBS has done anything wrong when considering their application.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman