DRN-3407955
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the way Arrow Global Limited and its agents have treated her in
relation to a debt it says was purchased in her name. Mrs H also complains Arrow hasnt
sent proof it now owns the debt in question and that it failed to respond to a Data Subject
Access Request (DSAR).
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Arrow says it purchased a credit card debt in Mrs Hs name in the summer of 2019. 
Arrow sent Mrs H a Notice of Assignment to confirm it now owned the debt and had 
instructed its agent (N) to contact her to make repayments. Payments Mrs H made to the 
previous debt owner were forwarded to Arrow until September 2019.
N took steps to contact Mrs H about the debt and request payments. In January 2020 Mrs 
H contacted N and explained she was vulnerable due to serious health problems and 
asked it to return the debt to the creditor. Mrs H also sent a DSAR and request for 
evidence (including the Deed of Assignment) to show Arrow was the legal owner of the 
debt.
Mrs H went on to raise a complaint about Ns actions and said it was harassing her 
for payments. N issued a final response to Mrs H but didnt agree its contact 
amounted to harassment.
A complaint was raised directly with Arrow as well. Mrs H explained she hadnt received a 
response to the DSAR she raised and that no Deed of Assignment had bene supplied. 
Mrs H complained that N was harassing her for repayment despite being aware of her 
health problems and vulnerability.
Arrow issued a final response but didnt agree it had acted unfairly. Arrow said it didnt have 
to send a copy of the Deed of Assignment but had sent a Notice of Assignment which set 
out the new arrangements. Arrow didnt agree N had harassed Mrs H for payment and 
asked for evidence of her health conditions.
Mrs H referred her complaint to this service and it was passe to an investigator. They 
thought Arrow had dealt with Mrs Hs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything e
The investigator also said they werent looking at Ns actions as part of Mrs Hs case.
Mrs H asked to appeal and said no debt had been taken out with either Arrow or its agent, N. 
As Mrs H asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken the step of issuing a provisional decision in this case as Ive reached my 
conclusions on a different basis to the investigator. As a result, I want to give both parties 
the opportunity to respond with any further comments or information they want me to 
consider before I make my final decision.
Mrs H and her representative have asked why the investigator didnt look at both Arrow 
and Ns actions as part of their review. Sometimes, well separate cases where more than 
one business is involved. But, in Mrs Hs case, I agree the right approach is to consider 
both the actions of Arrow and N. Mrs H says N has harassed her for payment. As N was 
acting on Arrows instruction when contacting Mrs H, I agree that forms part of this 
complaint and will cover the issues raised in this decision.
Mrs H has complained that no Deed of Assignment has been provided. Arrows final 
response says thats a confidential document and declined to supply Mrs H with a copy. I 
can see Arrow sent Mrs H a Notice of Assignment which set out the new ownership 
arrangement when it purchased her debt. I can see Mrs Hs complaint submission raises 
various rules and legislation and says Arrow is obliged to provide a copy of the Deed of 
Assignment. But the regulations set out by the Financial Conduct Authority under CONC 
6.5 say a business has to arrange for notice of assignment to be given to the borrower 
when a debt is transferred or sold. It doesnt say a Deed of Assignment has to be sent.
I also think its reasonable to note we consider complaints on a fair and reasonable basis. 
In this case, Arrow says it acquired Mrs Hs debt in 2019 and its provided a copy of the 
Notice of Assignment it sent to confirm that. Arrow has also sent evidence to show the 
original lender forwarded payments Mrs H made towards the balance to it after the debt 
was sold. In my view, the information available shows Arrow did purchase Mrs Hs debt in 
2019 as it claims. As Im satisfied Arrow purchased the debt, I think its fair for it to contact 
Mrs H to ask for repayment.
Mrs H has given Arrow very personal information about her health and explained shes 
vulnerable. I understand how distressing it must be for Mrs H. But I dont think Arrows 
treated her unfairly by asking for evidence to support what she told it. As a third party, I 
think its reasonable for a business to verify the information provided if it needs to change 
the way it treats a customer. Should Mrs H forward the requested information to Arrow, Id 
expect it to ensure her circumstances are taken into account.
Ive reviewed both Arrow and Ns file and considered the contact made with Mrs H. I dont 
doubt Mrs H has found the contact distressing. But, as Ive said above, Im satisfied Arrow 
has a legitimate reason to contact Mrs H. Whilst I can see letters have been sent and 
phone calls made, I havent found Mrs H was treated unfairly. I understand Mrs H feels 
Arrow has harassed her, but I think the level of contact has been reasonable overall.
Mrs H raised a DSAR but says Arrow failed to comply with it. But Arrow says it responded to 
Mrs Hs DSAR and asked her to verify the request before it could be completed. No further 
contact from Mrs H was received so the DSAR wasnt carried out. As Arrow didnt receive 
the necessary authority to issue the DSAR I think its decision not to proceed was fair. Should 
Mrs H wish to raise another, she has the option of contacting Arrow directly.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs H but Im satisfied Arrow has dealt with her complaint fairly. As 
Ive said above, Im satisfied I can look at the actions of N under this com t Arrow. Having 
done so, I havent been persuaded to uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
I invited both parties to respond with any new comments or information they wanted me to 
consider before making my final decision. We didnt hear back from either party. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded with new information, I see no reason to change the conclusions 
I reached in my provisional decision. I still dont think Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld, 
for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman