DRN-2925124
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA (PayPal) declined 
their refund request for a purchase made online.
What happened
Mr W purchased an item through an online auction site. When it arrived, it 
wasnt as advertised - some parts were faulty or in poor condition.
Mr W contacted the seller, who after some time agreed to replace the faulty part  
but it didnt arrive.
So, Mr W contacted PayPal to initiate a refund through the Buyer Protection 
Scheme as he considered the item to be significantly not as described.
Shortly after, the seller contacted Mr W and collected the item. Having repaired it, 
the seller asked Mr W to collect the item or pay a fee to have it shipped back to him 
 which Mr W refused to do.
Mr W says he contacted PayPal to let it know the item was in the sellers 
possession and asked it to refund the money hed paid.
PayPal asked for evidence that it had been returned  which Mr W says he provided.
PayPal refused a refund because Mr W didnt provide a valid tracking number to 
show the item had been delivered to the correct sellers address (which PayPal 
would provide) and so he hadnt complied with whats required of buyers to be 
protected under the Buyer Protection Scheme.
Our investigator considered the complaint. He was persuaded that an email 
between the alleged seller and Mr W showed the item was in the sellers 
possession, and he thought this negated the need for a tracking number.
He said PayPal hadnt provided contact notes, but he was satisfied it would 
have had sight of the email, and so should have issued a refund.
PayPal disagreed and so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im currently 
minded to not uphold this complaint and Ill explain why
The PayPal Buyer Protection Scheme says, If you are unable to resolve a 
transaction related issue directly with a seller, you must follow our online 
dispute resolution process through the Resolution Centre to pursue a claim 
under PayPal Buyer Protection.
It goes on to say; if youre filing a significantly not as described claim, PayPal 
may require you, at your expense, to ship the item back to the seller [] and to 
provide proof of delivery.
Mr W started a claim through the Resolution Centre but then sought to 
resolve the matter himself when he says he returned the item to the seller. By 
the time PayPal responded to him, he was no longer in possession of the 
item. Mr W didnt have a tracking number and so couldnt comply with whats 
required of a buyer under the Buyer Protection Scheme.
Our investigator thought the email between Mr W and the alleged seller was 
proof the item was in the sellers possession. But having read it, Im not 
persuaded it is. I say this because although the content refers to the item in 
question  I havent been provided with evidence to show the email is from the 
original seller.
Ive looked at the photographs provided by Mr and Mrs W and while they 
show machinery being placed in a van, they dont prove the item was 
delivered to the original seller. So, I cant place weight on these.
Ultimately, in order to be afforded PayPal Buyer Protection, Mr W was 
required to follow the steps set out in the user agreement  which included 
providing proof of delivery. Im not satisfied hes provided this and so I dont 
think PayPal has treated him unfairly in rejecting his claim.
I know my decision will disappoint Mr and Mrs W, but based on what Ive seen 
so far, I havent seen enough to persuade me that PayPal should refund them 
the cost of the item.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party provided information in response to my provisional findings - and so, for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2021. 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman