DRN-2685828
The complaint
Mr P says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr P bought the policy in 1996, at the same time as taking out a credit card in branch. It 
covered him in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
I sent Mr P and Barclays a provisional decision on 9 February 2021, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Mr Ps credit card application had a section for PPI. It offered him two options: one to buy 
PPI, and one to turn it down. The option to buy PPI was ticked, the option to turn it down was 
left blank, and Mr P signed the form to confirm his choices.
Mr P strongly feels that this tick was made without his permission. While I understand where 
hes coming from, Im afraid I do not agree. I dont think that it is significantly different from 
the other ticks he made. But even if I accept that the staff member physically filled in parts of 
the application for Mr P, Ive got no good reason to think they didnt discuss the PPI section 
with him before he chose an option  not least as this was an advised sale, which normally 
would have involved a discussion about PPI anyway. And I think that if Mr P didnt want PPI 
at the time, he would have most likely ticked the no box  which he did not do here.
Further, I have not seen any wider problems with Barclays sales process from the time, nor 
anything which shows that Mr P was misled into having PPI here. As far as I can see, Mr P 
was offered a choice and its recorded that he chose PPI at the time. And according to 
Barclays electronic records, Mr P tried to claim on the policy following an incident in 1999. 
While that claim didnt go through, it strongly suggests that he knew he had the PPI  
otherwise he wouldnt have known he could claim on it. Overall, I think its most likely that 
Barclays made Mr P aware he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take 
it at the time  though I can understand if he no longer recalls doing so after so many years.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr P, which means they had to check it was right for him. 
And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mr P was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or 
limitations. It would have paid out on top of his work benefits and offered him more 
comprehensive cover. It also meant he could protect his savings and use them for other 
things. And while I understand Mr Ps family may have been happy to help, there was always 
the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. Further, this card was Mr Ps sole 
responsibility, so I dont think it wouldve been suitable if Barclays had recommended he rely 
on other individuals to pay it. Overall, it looks like the policy could have been useful for Mr P 
in case things went wrong. 
Its possible that the information Barclays gave Mr P about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. But as I explained above, it doesnt look like he was affected by any of 
the policys main exclusions or limitations, and it could have been useful for Mr P in case 
something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr P could 
cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI 
was likely to have put him off taking it out.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
10 March 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In terms of responses to the provisional decision, Barclays confirmed they had nothing more 
to add.
Mr P added that Barclays couldnt find his application when he first contacted them, which he 
felt was suspicious. But the documentation was from well over two decades ago, regarding 
an account that had long since closed, and wouldve been on an old file system. So I think 
its understandable if Barclays didnt find it at first and thought it wasnt still available. 
Mr P reiterated that he strongly felt the tick wasnt his and that he never knew he had PPI. 
I do understand his strength of feeling and appreciate that hes been candid about his point 
of view. But as I explained in the provisional decision, I do not agree that the tick looks 
suspicious, or that there is anything to substantiate that it was made without his permission. 
I think its most likely that the choice for PPI was discussed, and if Mr P didnt want it then 
I think he wouldve chosen the option to turn it down instead. As far as I can see, he was 
offered a clear choice, its recorded he chose PPI, and Mr P signed to confirm his choices. 
Since he tried to use the policy in 1999, it tends to suggest he knew he had it. And Ive not 
seen any wider problems with Barclays sales process from the time, nor anything which 
shows that Mr P was misled here.
Ive not found any other reason to think that this particular policy was mis-sold, either. So 
having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint in this particular case.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021. 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman