DRN-3495307
The complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) didnt deal with a request he made for a 
refund, after accommodation he booked abroad turned out to be unfit for purpose. 
What happened
Mr F booked accommodation abroad using his BoS issued MasterCard. He was unhappy 
with the accommodation, so he sought a refund. 
BoS said the refund Mr F was seeking didnt meet the criteria for a Section 75 application 
under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). It also said Mr F hadnt provided the evidence it 
required within the allowed timeframes to raise a chargeback dispute. BoS said it couldnt do 
anymore to help.
Mr F doesnt agree so he brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and said that BoS hadnt done anything 
wrong.  
Mr F disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr F paid £32.97 for accommodation via his credit card. This is the amount he would 
like refunded. 
Under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) the cash price of the 
goods or service must be more than £100. So, Mr Fs refund request doesnt qualify.
BoS has looked to see if the refund was eligible under the chargeback scheme. 
Chargeback is the process by which settlement disputes are resolved between card 
issuers and merchants under the relevant card scheme.
Mr F used his MasterCard for this transaction. The guidelines set by MasterCard say 
a chargeback needs to be processed between 15 and 120 calendar days from the 
delivery/cancellation date of the goods or services.
Mr F booked the accommodation on 7 July 2021 for use 9-12 September 2021. Mr F 
called BoS on 11 September 2021. He said the accommodation wasnt fit for purpose 
and he wanted a refund. So, the 120 days within which to complain started on this 
date. There were a number of calls on that day. Mr F was told to complain to the 
accommodation provider first, and if no reply within 15 days, to then contact BoS 
again.
Mr F contacted BoS again on 18 September 2021 and he confirmed he had 
photographic evidence. There was further contact on 11 November 2021. In this call 
Mr F said he had photos ready to send. Again, Mr F was told to complain to the 
accommodation provider first, and if no reply within 15 days, to then contact BoS 
again to respond. 
Mr F has provided evidence of his contact with the accommodation provider. He says 
there was a call on 13 December 2021, and hes provided emails sent to the 
accommodation provider dated 21 December 2021 and 1 February 2022. The 
accommodation provider responded on 1 February 2022 and offered a coupon worth 
£25. Mr F complained to BoS on 17 March 2022.
BoS was clear about the next steps. BoS told Mr F to complain to the 
accommodation provider and if no response was received after 15 days, he needed 
to come back to BoS. However, even though Mr F complained to the accommodation 
provider in time, Mr F didnt come back to BoS for a number of months. 
Because Mr F delayed in his return contact with BoS it was unable to complete the 
chargeback. Once the 120 days expired, BoS couldnt do any more to assist Mr F. As 
such, I cant see that BoS made any errors, and I wont be asking it to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman