DRN-3514286
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as W has complained that HDI Global SE unfairly turned down its 
business interruption insurance claim after it was forced to close due to Covid-19.
Mr P, a director of W, has brought the complaint on Ws behalf.
What happened
W, a public house, held a business interruption policy with HDI. It claimed on its policy after 
its business was impacted by Covid-19. 
HDI said the policy didnt cover Ws claim. Whilst the policy provided an extension of cover 
for notifiable human disease, this applied only if the notifiable disease occurred at the 
premises and there was a closure by a public authority as a result of that occurrence at the 
premises. HDI also said that there was no link between the Governments nationwide 
restrictions and an occurrence (if any) at the premises. 
HDI said that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) business interruption insurance test 
case did not impact the outcome of the claim under Ws policy wording.
Unhappy with HDIs response, W brought its claim to this service. W said that Covid-19 was 
widespread and the policy should respond to Ws claim. 
Our investigator looked into Ws complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She didnt 
think W had shown it was most likely that there was a case of Covid-19 at its business 
premises. 
W didnt agree. It said several of its customers had been ill with flu-like symptoms. Its 
director, Mr P, had fallen ill with Epstein-Barr Virus or EBV shortly before the Government 
lockdown due to the pandemic. In summary, Mr P argued that it was most likely he had had 
Covid-19  either at the same time as EBV or that the EBV had been triggered by earlier 
Covid-19. Our investigator considered the medical evidence but did not consider that it 
showed, on balance, that it was more likely than not that Covid-19 had occurred at the 
premises.
HDI broadly agreed with the investigators findings, but commented on the evidence that 
Mr P had provided about his illness. It also made some general comments about the 
approach of this service in business interruption cases involving Covid-19.
Mr P, on behalf of W, acknowledged that the medical evidence he had provided was 
probably not enough to show Covid-19 had occurred at the premises. But he asked for an 
ombudsmans review, as he is entitled to do under our rules. 
Our investigator has also shared with Mr P the comments made by HDI in response to her 
findings. In summary, he observed that HDI had used a lot of the term balance of 
probability. HDI might be correct in normal terms, but he said that the pandemic had skewed 
the balance of probability in favour of people having Covid-19 based on the anecdotal 
evidence of their symptoms. While he had been diagnosed with acute EBV, he believed the 
research with regards to long Covid and the reactivation of the virus pushed the balance of 
probability closer to his stance. Finally, he mentioned that hed hoped to provide evidence 
from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) to show, on balance of probability, that there 
had been Covid-19 present on Ws premises.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Ws business, and that Mr P has been unwell. However, I wont be upholding Ws 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the 
policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if 
HDI has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when 
declining Ws claim.
The relevant part of the extension within Ws policy covers loss resulting from business 
interruption or interference as a consequence of:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice of or with the approval 
of the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority as a result of a Notifiable 
Human Disease occurring at the Premises
The policy defines Notifiable Human Disease as:
An illness sustained by any person caused by
a) food or drink poisoning
b) any human infectious or contagious disease
an outbreak of which the competent public authority has stipulated shall be notified to 
them
Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease. So, for this extension to provide cover for Ws claim, 
the closure or restrictions placed on the premises would need to be as a result of a case of 
Covid-19 occurring at the premises. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a positive 
test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a case on the 
premises would, in my view, be unfair. 
Therefore, it is necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 occurred at the insured 
premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder 
to demonstrate that they have suffered a loss which their policy covers.
Mr P says that he has anecdotal evidence of his customers having terrible flu like symptoms 
and that several were very ill. He says with hindsight this could have been Covid-19. I appreciate what he is saying but I have only his testimony to support this. Ive noted his 
comments about this anecdotal evidence in the context of the pandemic. But in this 
particular case that isnt enough for me to find that there was most likely a case of Covid-19 
at Ws premises.
Mr P has explained that he, a director of W, was admitted to hospital on 18 March 2020, just 
ahead of public houses being ordered by the Government to close (by close of business on 
20 March 2020) and the national lockdown (on 23 March 2020). He said that hed had flu 
like symptoms for around two weeks at that time, and it was the yellowing of his skin that 
prompted the hospital visit. He was diagnosed with EBV, which I understand is a viral 
infection, and this affected his spleen and unfortunately also gave him hepatitis. 
I can see that Mr P has spent some time researching whether there is either a connection 
between Covid-19 and EBV and/or whether an earlier infection with Covid-19 could have 
caused dormant EBV to reactivate. He has helpfully sent us his email exchanges with his 
hospital doctor. She reviewed Mr Ps hospital medical notes from March 2020 and did some 
research herself (as she was not an infectious disease specialist).
Ive looked closely at the medical evidence Mr P has provided. In summary, the hospital 
doctor said the following:
On 19 March 2020 Mr P had nasal and throat swabs, which were sent for PCR 
testing for Covid-19, as well as flu A & B and RSV. (I understand that RSV is 
Respiratory Syncytial virus, which causes cold-like symptoms). The swabs were 
negative for Covid-19. This tells us that at the point Mr P had symptoms, and would 
be likely to have a higher viral load, he tested negative. This makes it far more likely 
that [Mr Ps] symptoms were as a result of acute Epstein Barr infection. [He] had IgM 
antibody detected, but no IgG which is consistent, but not diagnostic of acute EBV 
infection. EBV would certainly explain [his] splenomegaly.
The tests he had cannot absolutely exclude that hed had Covid-19 previously and it 
had then re-activated the EBV. This was possible, but as a likely hypothesis it was 
harder to argue. (Her emphasis). EBV was common (over 95% of adults worldwide 
having been infected). It seemed to her that Mr P had had an acute EBV rather than 
a re-activation. The PCR could not prove he had never had it. 
The literature she had been able to find had been exploring a link between co-
existent Covid-19 and EBV increasing the risk of long Covid.
I am aware that Mr Ps doctor was not an infectious disease specialist, but I find her 
evidence persuasive given both her review of Mr Ps notes and her own research. The 
weight of the evidence is that it is most likely that Mr Ps symptoms were as a result of acute 
EBV. A negative PCR test does not show conclusively that he did not have Covid-19, and as 
with any test there is a risk of a false negative. But the medical evidence does not support 
that it was more likely than not that Mr Ps March 2020 illness was Covid-19 or caused by 
Covid-19. This means I do not consider that W has shown that it was more likely than not 
that there was case of Covid-19 at its premises. 
W says that the very act of the Government locking down the whole nation should be 
enough for the spirit of the business interruption disease clause to be invoked. The 
Government deemed the disease so virulent that it was potentially everywhere as shown by 
the extreme lockdown measures it took. This also had the effect of rendering any ability to 
show that Covid-19 was present at the premises impossible.  
I see the argument that Mr P is making. And Ive noted his comments about ONS evidence. But I dont need any further evidence about Covid-19 in his area. I say this because I dont 
think the prevalence of Covid-19 in general is enough for me fairly to conclude that it 
occurred at Ws premises, such as is required for the policy to respond. As such, it is not 
necessary for me to go on to decide whether a public authority closed the premises or to 
consider any link between the Governments national lockdown and any report of Covid-19 
at Ws premises. It follows that, in deciding Ws complaint, I do not need to comment on the 
more general observations that HDI has made about this services approach to at the 
premises business interruption insurance complaints. 
Im not persuaded that there was an occurrence of Covid-19 at Ws premises, so I think that 
HDI was correct to conclude that the outcome of its claim wasnt affected by the FCA test 
case. 
I appreciate that this isnt the outcome W was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require HDI to pay Ws claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman