DRN-2684623
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs K complain that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) wont refund them for transfers 
they made after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr A was selling a car, which he advertised via a large online website for 
just under £3,000. Mr A says this was his first time selling a car in 10 years and that it was 
his first time using this particular online website. As part of the ad he included his contact 
phone number.
Mr A says that he received a message to his phone from a woman who said she was 
interested in buying his car. She told him that she wanted to make payment via an online 
payment service, and that she was buying the car for a family member. She asked Mr A for 
his email address so that she could make the payment via the online payment service.
Mr A says that he hadnt used the online payment service much, so wasnt familiar with how 
it worked.
Before the buyer made payment, she contacted Mr A and let him know that due to health 
conditions she couldnt collect the car in person. She told Mr A shed arranged for a courier 
company to collect the car and gave him the companys details, as well as the name of her 
contact at the company. She said the cost was £495 and gave Mr A an address for both 
herself and her family member  which was where the car would be delivered to.
The buyer told Mr A that she didnt have online banking and therefore needed to make the 
payment in branch, but due to her health wasnt able to do so. She asked Mr A if he could 
make the payment to the courier company, saying she would reimburse him when she paid 
for the car. Mr A says he believed what the woman told him, and due to her health issues 
wanted to help. As a result, he didnt research the courier company or ask for any proof of 
booking.
Mr A went into a BoS branch on 16 October 2019 and made the payment of £495, using the 
account details the buyer had given him for her contact at the courier company. Mr A says 
the cashier in branch confirmed that the beneficiary account name matched the name the 
buyer had given him. And, as the details matched, he made the payment.
Mr A contacted the buyer same day to let her know that the payment had been made. But 
didnt receive a response.
The following day the buyer got in touch with Mr A, explaining she had been in hospital 
overnight which was why she hadnt responded sooner. She said that she still wanted to buy 
the vehicle but because her account with the online payment service was blocked, she was 
unable to send him the money. She said the contact at the courier company would arrange 
to unblock her account but needed £750 to do so. She said she couldnt get into the branch 
to make this payment to him and asked if Mr A could do it on her behalf.
Mr A says that as he wasnt familiar with the online payment service, he didnt query how the 
courier company employee could unblock the account.
On 17 October 2019, Mr A went back into a BoS branch and made the payment of £750 to 
the same payment details as the previous payment. He messaged the buyer once hed 
completed the payment, and she confirmed that she would send him payment for the car.
On 18 October 2019, Mr A received an email he believed to be from the online payment 
service. The email said a payment of just over £4,000 was waiting to be made to him. But to 
release it he had to pay £750 to the payment details provided in the email.
Mr A searched online for a telephone number and called the online payment service. At this 
point Mr A became aware that the email wasnt sent by the genuine online payment service 
and he had been the victim of a scam. Mr A contacted BoS and raised a fraud claim with 
them. He also searched for the courier company online and saw they were based outside of 
the UK.
BoS considered Mr A and Mrs Ks fraud claim but declined to refund them. They said the 
claim was covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, but as Mr A didnt 
take reasonable care before making the payments, they considered it an exception under 
the Code. They said a search on the courier company clearly showed it wasnt a UK 
company, and that a search on the phone number provided by the online payment service in 
the email   showed that it was related to a scam. BoS said they had contacted the 
beneficiary bank, but no funds were recoverable. And that when Mr A made the payment in 
branch, they werent able to check the name of the account Mr A was paying funds into. All 
they could tell Mr A at that time was whether or not he had given them a valid sort code and 
account number  which he had.
BoS did identify that when Mr A rang to make his fraud claim, he was incorrectly told they 
couldnt send him a letter. In recognition of this they paid £50 to Mr A and Mrs Ks account.
As Mr A and Mrs K werent happy with BoSs response, they brought a complaint to our 
service
Our investigation so far
An investigator looked into Mr A and Mrs Ks complaint and initially upheld it. But following 
further submissions by BoS, they changed their opinion and agreed that Mr A hadnt 
completed sufficient checks prior to making the payments. Saying that basic checks on what 
he was being told wouldve uncovered the scam. Also, as the payments were unremarkable 
compared to Mr A and Mrs Ks normal account use  the investigator wouldnt have 
expected the payments to flag with BoS. On that basis the investigator didnt recommend 
that BoS should refund Mr A and Mrs K.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying we werent placing any responsibility 
on the bank in line with the Code.  As such Mr A and Mrs K asked for their case to be 
reviewed, so it was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator. Based on what Ive seen 
Im not satisfied that BoS should refund Mr A and Mrs K and Ill explain why. 
The CRM Code 
BoS is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the 
CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances 
and it is for BoS to establish that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care under 
one of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
 The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by failing to 
take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning 
 The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate 
 The customer has been grossly negligent 
*The two further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
BoS says it doesnt believe that Mr A and Mrs K should be refunded, as they didnt take the 
requisite level of care before making the payments  saying they made no checks.
Having considered everything, Im minded to agree with BoS for the following reasons.
I appreciate that Mr A says he found the story provided by the scammer to be plausible, in 
part because they provided him with information such as their address, phone number and 
background on their poor health. But right at the start, the first request he got from the 
scammer was to send £495 when he hadnt received any money in payment for his car. Mr A 
didnt know this person and hadnt met this person. They may have given him quite a bit of 
personal information, but this was still a stranger to Mr A. At this point I think its reasonable 
to have expected Mr A to have asked for the funds to be sent to him, before he sent them 
onto the courier company.
And while the scammer had told Mr A that they couldnt get into a branch to make the first 
payment to the courier company, they had also told Mr A that they had an account with an 
online payment service which was how they were going to pay for the car. It was only later 
they told Mr A that that their online payment account was blocked. There is no indication that 
this was raised initially so its unclear why they couldnt have used that account to pay the 
courier company. But I cant see that Mr A asked any questions about this.
I think also its reasonable to expect Mr A to have done a basic check on the courier 
company they said they were going to use. He checked this once he was aware of the scam 
and was instantly able to see that the company was based outside of the UK. I think this 
wouldve and shouldve given Mr A pause for thought. Im also concerned that Mr A didnt 
ask for any evidence of the job being booked with the courier company or an invoice from 
them for the £495 payment. 
Also, Mr A was being asked to make payment to someone who worked for the courier 
company. The name of the account he was given was a personal name and not the name of 
the company. I appreciate that for a small local firm, then maybe a payment to a sole trader mayve made sense. But I think this also shouldve raised red flags for Mr A and caused him 
to do some research into the courier company.
Based on what Mr A has told us, Im not persuaded that he had a reasonable basis to 
believe that the payment he was being asked to make was genuine. And, that he didnt take 
reasonable care by making some basic checks before making the first payment. I think that if 
Mr A had done some checks, its most likely that he wouldve uncovered that this was a 
scam. 
The second payment that Mr A was asked to make was to the same courier company, but so 
that they could unblock the buyers account held with an independent online payment 
service. 
I appreciate that Mr A may not have been familiar with this online payment service, but I 
think it wouldve been reasonable for him to question how an employee at a courier company 
would be able to unblock someone elses account held at an unrelated company. Also, why 
a payment of £750 would be required to unblock the account. 
And I have to take into consideration that this second payment, now meant that Mr A had 
been asked to send over £1,200 without receiving any money at all for the car that he was 
selling. I think there shouldve been some concern about why someone would be prepared 
to pay over £1,200 in order to buy a car worth approximately £3,000. This means the buyer 
wouldve ended up paying nearly a third more than the car was actually being sold for. I 
appreciate that they couldnt collect the car and said they needed it delivered, but this seems 
like a disproportionately high amount of money to consider outlaying based on the cars total 
value.
While I appreciate that Mr A feels BoS are liable under the CRM Code. Im not satisfied that 
Mr A met the requisite level of care in making the payments. Mr A shouldve done some 
checks to ensure that the payments were genuine, and if he had its most likely he wouldve 
uncovered the scam and not proceeded with the payments. On that basis, I cant fairly ask 
BoS to refund Mr A and Mrs K under the CRM Code.
Could BoS have done more to prevent the payment being made or to recover their funds
In addition to BoSs obligations under the CRM Code, I am also mindful that when Mr A 
made these payments, BoS should fairly and reasonably also have had systems in place to 
look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate that its customers were at 
risk of fraud (among other things). And in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment 
channel used, have taken additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a 
payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case the first payment was for £495 and the second payment was for £750. Having 
reviewed Mr A and Mrs Ks previous account use, Im not persuaded that either payment 
was remarkable enough that BoS shouldve identified a scam risk in this case. They werent 
for significant amounts, and they were paid by a payment method that Mr A and Mrs K had 
used previously. And as I dont think they shouldve flagged with BoS, I cant fairly say that 
they couldve or shouldve done anything to prevent these payments being made.
From what Ive seen BoS contacted the receiving bank in a timely manner, but all of the 
funds had been removed from the account  so they were unable to recover any of the funds 
transferred. So overall, Im satisfied BoS made reasonable attempts in trying to recover Mr A 
and Mrs Ks funds.BoS have acknowledged that Mr A was given incorrect information, that they couldnt send 
him a letter regarding his fraud claim. In the circumstances, Im satisfied the £50 already 
paid is a fair award in recognition of this poor service.
I appreciate that this has been an extremely distressing situation for Mr A and Mrs K, but 
having considered everything, Im not satisfied that I can fairly ask BoS to refund them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman