DRN-3836805
The complaint
Mr H complains about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim 
made under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H has a home insurance policy underwritten by Liverpool Victoria (LV) which covers his 
property and its contents. He made a claim in early July 2021 after water from the sewers 
flooded back into his utility room. The flooding recurred at the end of July 2021.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
In short, Mr H thought LVs loss adjuster acted unprofessionally in assessing his claim. And 
he thought the claim was unnecessarily delayed and characterised by poor communication 
and customer service.
Mr H also said LV had failed to remove contaminated material from his property as quickly 
as they should have. And this may have caused his elderly and infirm mother, who also lived 
at the property, to become infected.
He was also unhappy that LV chose not to pursue the local water company for recovery of 
their losses due to the insured events. He believes a collapsed main sewer in the road 
outside his property was responsible for the flooding in his utility room.
Mr H complained to LV about these issues. They admitted their agents had failed to 
communicate effectively with Mr H at times. And they said on one occasion a message from 
Mr H to the loss adjuster handling the claim wasnt passed on in a timely manner.
They said the material Mr H had asked them to remove wasnt in fact contaminated by the 
sewer water, but they ought to have removed it sooner anyway after Mr H asked them to do 
so.
They initially offered Mr H £300 in compensation for the trouble and upset hed experienced 
as result of these failings. And they apologised if any confusion or frustration had arisen 
because of the way the loss adjuster conducted the initial interview with Mr H.
LV later offered a further £100 in compensation after Mr H questioned their first offer. They 
admitted they should have told Mr H sooner that the material he thought was contaminated 
wasnt in fact affected by the water back-flooding into his utility room.
Mr H wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. He thought the 
compensation offered by LV was inadequate given the trouble and upset hed been caused 
and given his particular circumstances.
Our investigator looked into it and thought LV should increase the compensation to £800 
given all the circumstances. 
Mr H disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. He thinks £800 is still 
insufficient to compensate him for the trouble and upset he experienced.
LV also disagreed with the outcome proposed by our investigator. They felt the £400 theyd 
already offered was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LV have admitted that communication with Mr H was poor at times. And that he didnt 
receive the level of customer service they would have hoped to provide. 
Theyve also accepted that Mr H felt upset by the initial interview with the loss adjuster. 
Although they are right to say that Mr H objected to being asked certain questions which 
they (and we) would expect a loss adjuster might ask in circumstances like these.
So, theres no dispute that there was poor customer service and poor communication, which 
at times led to some relatively minor delays. For example, Mr H asked for the material he 
thought was contaminated (insulation from the walls of the utility room) to be removed in 
early September 2021. He ended up removing it himself towards the end of September 
when LV hadnt done so by then.
Im satisfied the failure to remove that insulation wasnt connected with the health problems 
Mr Hs mother suffered at the time. The experts appointed by LV say the material wasnt 
affected by the flood water.
Im also satisfied that LVs decision not to pursue the water company for recovery of their 
costs wasnt unfair or unreasonable. They have an expert report which concludes that there 
were issues with Mr Hs own drains and sewers which caused the flooding.
Mr H didnt complain to LV about this, but in response to our investigators view he said he 
was unhappy his policy premiums have increased after the insured events in July 2021. I 
assume he believes this may in part be because LV chose not to recover their costs from the 
water company.
As I say, theres nothing unfair or unreasonable about LVs decision not to pursue the water 
company. And it isnt surprising  or in any way unfair or unreasonable  that the two insured 
events and claims in July 2021 have led to an increase in Mr Hs premiums.
So, this decision turns on whether the £400 in compensation offered by LV for the poor 
customer service, poor communication and delays was sufficient.
I agree with our investigator that it wasnt sufficient. And I agree with him that it should be 
increased to £800. Ill explain why.
LV and their agents (the loss adjuster) knew about Mr Hs circumstances. They knew that he 
was living with an elderly and infirm relative. And they knew  or should have known  that 
Mr H would therefore be very concerned about contaminated sewer water entering his 
property. That concern and upset would no doubt have increased after the second insured 
event which caused the property to flood again.
I dont think LV did enough, in those circumstances, to ensure that there were no delays at 
all in handling the claim and getting things sorted. And they didnt do enough to ensure there were no hitches in the communication with Mr H. For example, they admit they failed to 
advise Mr H  in good time - that the insulation material was not contaminated. 
They also failed to remove that material in a timely manner, seemingly because they were 
happy to wait for a contractor to sort it out, knowing that the contractor wouldnt begin work 
at the property for some weeks. 
The net effect being that Mr H spent more than three weeks believing he had contaminated 
material on his property that might affect his - and more importantly, his elderly relatives - 
health.
Putting things right
Thats why Im going to require LV to increase the compensation to be paid to Mr H. LV 
didnt cause the water to flood Mr Hs utility room (twice) and that was always going to be 
stressful for him. 
But Im satisfied that £800 (rather than £400) in compensation more accurately reflects the 
degree of additional stress and worry  over longer periods  that Mr H suffered due to LVs 
failure to communicate quickly and effectively with him.
I should stress that my reasons for increasing the amount of compensation to be paid in this 
case have nothing to do with the fact that LV didnt put Mr H and his relative into alternative 
accommodation.
Its fairly clear that wasnt the right solution in this case. And I mention it only because LVs 
response to our investigators view seems to suggest they believe the proposed increase in 
compensation was in some way connected to the potential cost of alternative 
accommodation.
Our investigator did mention in his view on the case that LV had considered alternative 
accommodation at the outset of the claim. But he did so not to suggest they ought to have 
placed Mr H and his relative in alternative accommodation, but only to demonstrate that they 
were aware from the outset of Mr Hs living arrangements and the vulnerability of his relative.
Mr H wants me to increase the compensation to significantly more than the £800 suggested 
by our investigator, but Im not going to do that.
The delays in the handling of this claim are relatively minor and specific to particular 
circumstances (for example, the removal of the insulation material). In fact, overall, it took LV 
around two months from the second flood  which rather complicated things in terms of how 
and when they should carry out the repairs  to provide Mr H with a cash offer to settle the 
claim.
Thats not a long time in relation to claims such as these. In that time, LV assessed the 
buildings and contents elements of the claims, got reports from a drying specialist, then 
appointed contractors and scoped out the repairs required.
As Ive already said, I dont think theres anything unfair or unreasonable about LVs decision 
not to pursue the water company for costs. And I dont think its unfair or unreasonable that 
the two insured events and claims would have an effect on Mr Hs future policy premiums. 
So, LV were responsible for minor delays in some aspects of the handling of the claim and 
their communications with Mr H could have been better and quicker. Those failings were 
exacerbated by Mr Hs circumstances  which LV were aware of at the outset. But, as I say, LV didnt cause the flooding in Mr Hs utility room.
In that context, Id refer Mr H to our website, which outlines our approach to compensation 
for trouble and upset. We set out there what level of compensation were likely to award in 
different sets of circumstances. 
We say awards of £300-£750 are usually appropriate where a customer has experienced 
considerable distress, upset and worry and/or significant inconvenience or disruption, 
typically over many weeks or months.
Awards above £750 and up to around £1,500 are appropriate where the customer has 
experienced substantial distress, upset and worry and/or serious disruption to daily life, 
usually over many months and sometimes for more than a year.
Im satisfied on balance that Mr Hs particular circumstances just about put this case in the 
second category (£750-£1,500). But Im mindful that the period of time during which Mr H 
suffered substantial distress as a direct result of LVs errors (rather than the insured events 
themselves) was relatively short. And thats why the award Im going to make is at the 
bottom end of that compensation bracket.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part.
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited must pay Mr H £800 in total in compensation 
for the trouble and upset he experienced as a result of their errors.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman