DRN-3191554
The complaint
Ms S complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim under her 
contents insurance policy.
What happened
In mid-2020, Ms S advertised some jewellery for sale online. She was contacted by a buyer 
and told the money had been transferred into her account. When she checked, this 
appeared to be the case, so she allowed the buyer into her home and gave him the 
jewellery. 
Ms S later found out that shed been the victim of a scam. The money had been paid into her 
account via a cheque which hadnt cleared and was subsequently cancelled. So she was left 
without the money or the jewellery. She made a claim under her contents insurance policy. 
Fairmead declined the claim. It said the policy excludes loss by deception, apart from 
deception used to gain entry into the home. 
Ms S wasnt happy, so she brought her complaint to our service. And our investigator upheld 
it. He said Ms S was deceived by the buyer who said the money had been transferred into 
her account. And it was because of this deception that she allowed him into her home to give 
him the jewellery. He said Fairmead should pay the claim plus compensation of £100. 
Fairmead didnt accept this. It said Ms S claim wouldnt fall under the definition of theft. 
Whilst the policy doesnt specifically define this term, it said the standard definition would be 
as follows:
The generic term for all crimes in which a person intentionally takes personal 
property of another without permission or consent and with the intent to convert it to 
the takers use (including potential sale).
As Ms S handed the buyer the jewellery, rather than it being taken without her consent or 
permission, Fairmead said it wasnt theft. It said the claim arises from fraud, which isnt an 
insured event under the policy.
In addition, it didnt think Ms S had taken reasonable care in making sure the funds had 
cleared in her account before handing over the jewellery. 
As Fairmead didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me. And in July 2020, I issued a 
provisional decision, which said:
The terms and conditions of Ms S policy says there is no cover for loss by 
deceptionapart from deception used to gain entry to your home. Fairmead says the 
policys intention here is to cover incidents where, for example, someone gained entry to a 
property whilst pretending to be a gas meter reader, prior to stealing items from the home. 
My understanding of Ms S claim is that the buyer entered her property by deceiving her into 
believing the payment for the jewellery had been transferred into her account. Once hed 
deceived her, he gained entry to the property. Im persuaded that if Ms S hadnt been 
deceived in this way, she wouldnt have let the buyer into her home. And it follows that she 
wouldnt have given him the jewellery.
Ms S contents insurance policy covers claims for loss or damage caused by theft or 
attempted theft. The policy doesnt provide a definition for the term theft. And Ive noted the 
standard definition provided by Fairmead quoted above appears to apply to US law. 
Under UK legislation, a person is guilty of theft where they dishonestly appropriate property 
belonging to another with the intention of permanently depriving the other of it. I think its 
more appropriate to apply this definition given that the claim occurred within the UK and Ms 
S contract of insurance is governed under the laws of England and Wales. 
Having thought about this definition, Im persuaded Ms S claim is one of theft. I say this 
because the buyer dishonestly took property from her with the intention of permanently 
depriving her of it. 
For these reasons, Im satisfied that Ms S claim is for theft and it arises from deception used 
to enter her home. 
Under the policy, Ms S has a duty to prevent loss or damage. It says you must take all 
practical and reasonable steps to safeguard your contents against loss or damage and to 
prevent accidents. Fairmead argues that Ms S hasnt taken reasonable care here as she 
didnt ensure the money was in her account before handing over the jewellery.
Ms S says she checked her account prior to letting the buyer into her home and the money 
was showing in her account. I havent seen any information to demonstrate this but Im 
mindful that its unlikely Ms S would be able to get any proof now that the funds are no longer 
there. Im also aware that some banking apps will show the funds of an uncleared cheque as 
being available, rather than pending, which can cause some reasonable confusion. 
It's my understanding that since the buyer has been caught by the police, its come to light 
that Ms S wasnt his only victim. Its clear the buyer was able to deceive many people in the 
same way he did Ms S. So Im not persuaded it would be fair to say she acted without 
reasonable care and to hold her to a higher standard than other victims involved in this and 
similar cases.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms S had no further comments or evidence for my consideration and has accepted my 
provisional decision. 
But Fairmead didnt agree. It said:
Theft is not a defined term within the policy and so must be considered on the basis of its 
plain English meaning. We would agree with the FOS that to do so we must look at an 
English definition of theft for an insurance policy governed by English law rather than any 
international definition, but we consider that the FOS may be argued to have taken too 
simplistic approach in their plain English definition of theft.
Theft under English law is defined under section 1 of the Theft Act 1968. A person is guilty of 
theft if he dishonestly appropriates property belonging to another, with the intention of 
permanently depriving the other of that property. Looking only at that definition it would appear on the face of it that the key criteria are met in Ms S case; the buyer took the 
jewellery away from Ms S, having been dishonest as to his intention to pay the purchase 
price, and with an obvious intention to permanently deprive her of the jewellery.
However, if were to take the approach that the definition refers to an offence with which the 
buyer might be charged, whilst there is an overlap between the offence of theft and the 
offence of fraud by false representation, in simple terms, theft is the charge brought when 
the offence involved taking property without permission and fraud by false representation is 
the charge when the owner gives permission to take the property as a result of deception.
The latter is not a charge brought under the Theft Act 1968 but under section 2 of the Fraud 
Act 2006 which provides that a person commits an offence if he dishonestly makes a false 
representation and intends, by making the representation, to:
make a gain for himself or another; or
cause loss to another or to expose another to a risk of loss.
We consider that if the buyer were to face criminal charges for his conduct towards Ms S it 
would be for the offence of Fraud by False Representation, not Theft. On that basis it is 
arguable that as this claim does not relate to a theft offence but to a fraud, it does not fall 
within the theft cover under the policy.
Fairmead say that it believes the claim should be reclassified as fraud, which isnt covered 
under the policy. 
It has, however, accepted my comments on whether Ms S took reasonable care and it no 
longer wishes to pursue this argument.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It might help if I explain that, as were an informal complaint resolution service, it's not for me 
to determine what criminal acts the perpetrator is guilty of. And whilst Ive taken the law into 
account when deciding whats fair and reasonable, my decision isn't bound by legal 
arguments around what constitutes a theft. 
Ive used the English definition of the term theft under UK legislation as I considered that to 
be a more reasonable interpretation than Fairmeads definition under US Law. Fairmeads 
legal advice is that Ive applied a too simplistic interpretation to the definition. But when 
considering the wording of an insurance contract  particularly for terms that the policy 
doesnt define  we would apply a plain English definition in line with what a layperson would 
understand the term to mean. For this reason, I dont agree that a simplistic interpretation of 
the term is incorrect here. 
Since our involvement in this complaint, Fairmead now wishes to classify this claim as one 
for fraud, which it says isnt an insured event covered under the policy. 
Ive reviewed the policy document and whilst fraud isnt an insured event, it isnt specifically 
excluded. What the policy does exclude is loss by deception  which ultimately means loss 
arising from fraud or a scam. However, as Ive explained above, the exception to this policy 
exclusion is if deception is used to gain entry to the home. And Ive already explained why I 
believe this to be the case in the circumstances of Ms S claim. In law, its widely accepted that there is a significant overlap between theft and fraud. 
Ultimately, its for the relevant authorities to decide what a perpetrator is charged with. Cover 
can still be available under a policy which covers loss arising out of theft, even if the 
perpetrator is charged with a different offence, provided that the circumstances of the claim 
reasonably arose from a theft as defined either in the policy or by a standard definition of the 
term.
Returning to the definition of theft, four elements are required: to (i) dishonestly; (ii) 
appropriate; (iii) property belonging to another; (iv) with the intention of permanently 
depriving the other of it. Following that definition, when the buyer paid the cheque into Ms S 
bank account, they hadnt appropriated the jewellery, which was still safely in Ms S house. 
The buyers theft wasnt complete until he appropriated the jewellery, by entering the 
home as a purportedly honest buyer and collecting it.
From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied Ms S claim is one of theft  regardless of how 
this would be pursued in court  and that this loss arose following the deception used to 
enter her home. For this reason, Fairmead should pay the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold the complaint and direct Fairmead Insurance 
Limited to:
pay the claim, minus any applicable policy excess;
pay simple interest of 8% per year* on the claim settlement from the date the claim 
was made to the date the claim is paid;
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021. 
*If Fairmead considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax
from that interest, it should tell Ms S how much its taken off. It should also give Ms S a tax
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman