DRN-3919155
The complaint
Mr F complains that Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans (Shelby) provided him with 
a loan without carrying out appropriate affordability checks. 
What happened
Mr F took one loan from Shelby for £500 on 11 July 2021. Mr F was due to make six monthly 
repayments, with the highest one being £162.07. Shelby says Mr F has repaid this loan.  
Shelby considered Mr Fs complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to 
provide the loan because it had carried out proportionate checks which included asking Mr F 
for his income and expenditure information as well as carrying out a credit search. The 
results of these checks showed Shelby Mr F could afford the loan repayments. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr F referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Where the complaint was considered by an adjudicator. He concluded Shelby made a 
reasonable decision to provide the loan because it had carried out a proportionate check. 
Shelby hasnt acknowledged or responded to the adjudicators assessment. 
Mr F said he didnt agree with the outcome. In summary he said:
Mr F pointed out the adjudicator said hed not looked at his credit report even though 
it had been provided  Mr F resent his credit report in response to the assessment.  
Mr F say he had three accounts near the overdraft limits at the time. 
Shelby shouldve made better checks by perhaps asking for copies of his bank 
statements. 
Shelby had to go beyond just finding out whether the loan was technically affordable.
Mr F borrowed a significant sum and he thought he may have to borrow again to 
repay this loan. 
Mr Fs income was substantially smaller, and his finances werent stable. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Shelby had to assess the lending to check if Mr F could afford to pay back the amount hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Shelbys checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Fs income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Shelby should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr F. These factors include:
Mr F having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr F having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr F coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr F. As there was only one loan, the 
adjudicator didnt think this applied in Mr Fs case. 
Shelby was required to establish whether Mr F could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr F was able to repay his loan 
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Fs complaint.
Before this loan was approved, Shelby asked Mr F for details of his income, which he 
declared to be £2,000 per month. Mr F as part of his application also declared outgoings of 
£400, which left him with £1,600 of disposable income each month. 
As part of the application, Shelby overlaid what Mr F had declared about his expenditure 
with data from two different sources and made adjustments to the information. Firstly, it used 
Office of National Statistics (ONS) data and secondly, it used information from 
Mr Fs credit search (which Ill go into in more detail below). 
Therefore, after the ONS data and credit search results were factored into the income and 
expenditure assessment Shelby reduced Mr Fs income to £1,430 per month and increased 
his expenditure to £873 per month. This still left around £557 per month for Mr F to make his 
repayment of around £162. 
Before this loan was approved Shelby also carried out a credit search and it has provided a 
summary of the results it received from the credit reference agency. 
It is worth saying here that although Shelby carried out a credit search there isnt a 
regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. Therefore, its entirely 
possible that the information Shelby received may not entirely reflect the information Mr F 
may be able to view in the credit report he has sent to us. There could be for a number of reasons for this, such as Shelby only asking for certain pieces of information such as the 
number of active credit accounts. 
But what Shelby cant do is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the 
information it received  if necessary.  
So, although Mr F has provided a copy of his full credit report, Im not, in this case going to 
be considering it, because Shelby did a credit search and has provided the results which it 
saw at the time of Mr Fs application and so, I can see what it considered before it approved 
the loan. In my view, Shelby was also entitled to rely on the results it was given by the credit 
reference agency as it didnt have anything to suggest the results were in anyway 
inaccurate. 
Having reviewed the credit check results, there isnt anything in the results that wouldve 
indicated that Mr F was having financial difficulties, for example it knew there were no 
insolvency markers, or debt management plans and Mr F hadnt defaulted on any accounts 
within the previous year (the period of time Shelby asked about). 
Shelby was also aware from the results, Mr F hadnt taken any high-cost loans (so in effect 
payday loans) within the previous six months, but it was on notice, that some time before 
that  so more than six months ago -   Mr F had borrowed a total of just under £3,500 from 
such creditors. But importantly, the credit check results said there were not any such loans 
outstanding (including home credit) at the time when this loan was approved.  
In my view, there wasnt anything solely in the credit check results that ought to have led 
Shelby to either have carried out further checks such as reviewing bank statements or 
prompted it to have declined Mr Fs application. 
Overall, there was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led 
Shelby to believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the 
information Mr F had provided. So, while Mr F has provided his bank statements, in this 
case, it wouldve been disproportionate for Shelby to have considered them. 
Given it was early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for Shelby to have 
relied on the information Mr F provided to show he had sufficient disposable income to afford 
the repayments he was due to make. There also wasnt anything else to suggest that Mr F 
was having financial difficulties or that the loan repayments would be unsustainable for him. 
As this is the case, Im therefore not upholding Mr Fs complaint. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman