DRN-2101790
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car supplied by Santander Consumer (UK) Plc under a conditional 
sale agreement wasnt of satisfactory quality. He doesnt believe that the dealership or 
Santander have done enough to put things right.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr M took a used car from Santander on a conditional sale agreement. 
He also took out a three-year warranty. Within less than three weeks there were problems 
with the car, and he returned it to the dealership. It stayed with the dealership for a few days, 
but no repairs were carried out. The dealership said it thought the problems were the result 
of mis-fuelling  putting petrol in a diesel car  for which it wasnt responsible. 
In December 2019 Mr M arranged for a diagnostic test to be carried out. This showed that 
there were significant faults with the cars wiring loom and exhaust system. Mr M says that 
he attempted to get the dealership to agree to repairs, but received no response. He 
therefore contacted Santander, which offered to arrange for the necessary repairs to be 
carried out. Mr M said however that the dealership had already been given the opportunity to 
repair the car and that he therefore wanted to reject it. He referred the matter to this service, 
where one of our investigators considered it. 
The investigator initially agreed with Mr M that he should be able to reject the car  that is, 
return it without making any further payments. She thought the dealership had had a chance 
to repair it when Mr M had first returned it in September 2019. In response, however, 
Santander provided further evidence about what had happened when Mr M had first 
returned the car in September 2019. As a result, she was persuaded that the car had been 
mis-fuelled by someone other than the dealership. She took the view therefore that neither 
the dealership nor Santander had had the chance to repair the defects which had come to 
light in December 2019. Because the dealership had offered to carry out repairs and to cover 
the cost of the diagnostic test which Mr M had arranged, she didnt think Santander needed 
to do any more. 
Mr M didnt accept the investigators proposed resolution and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although both the investigator and I have referred to the actions of the dealership, it is 
Santander  as the seller under the conditional sale agreement  which is responsible to Mr 
M for the quality of the car. The actions of the dealership are nevertheless relevant to my 
consideration of the complaint, which is about the actions of Santander. 
Santander was under a duty to supply a car which was of satisfactory quality. In agreeing 
with the dealership to arrange for repairs to be carried out, it accepts that it didnt meet that 
obligation. 
Where an item isnt of satisfactory quality a consumer can generally reject it within 30 days 
of delivery. Otherwise, the supplier should usually have an opportunity to repair it. I must 
therefore consider what happened when Mr M returned the car in September 2019  soon 
after he took delivery. 
Having considered what the dealership has said about this, I think it likely that the problems 
then were caused by the wrong fuel being used. And I dont believe that the dealership was 
responsible; had that been the case, those problems would have arisen almost immediately, 
not nearly three weeks later. I dont believe the further problems  with the wiring loom and 
exhaust system  had been identified at that point, so cant properly conclude that the 
dealership or Santander has had the opportunity to repair them. It follows that the current 
offer to carry out repairs is fair in the circumstances, so its now for Mr M to decide whether, 
on reflection, he wants to accept it.
Mr M has also suggested that the warranty was mis-sold, because he was misled about its 
branding. In my view, however, the branding was clear on the warranty documents.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to 
do anything more to resolve Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman