DRN-2572594
The complaint
Mrs B says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) in 1993.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer should accept
responsibility for the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. And having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I know this will disappoint her, so Ill explain why.
In 1993 PPI was added to Mrs Bs account. AXA has shown us a copy of its internal system 
that shows the policy was added to Mrs Bs account following a telephone call. There is 
limited information available from the time of the sale, but I dont think this is unreasonable 
considering the time that has passed and that AXA is not required to keep this type of 
information indefinitely.
AXA had a responsibility to make Mrs B aware the policy was optional and gain her consent 
before adding it to her account. Mrs B has told us she wasnt aware until recently that the 
policy existed and wouldnt have taken the policy. I have thought about what Mrs B has told 
us, but I dont have enough evidence to say that AXA didnt present the policy as optional, or 
that Mrs B didnt choose to take it.
AXA didnt recommend the policy to Mrs B, so it didnt have to check the policy was suitable
for her, but it still had to provide her with clear information about the policy so she could
decide if she wanted to take it out.
Mrs B says she would have received generous sick pay if she was away from work due to
illness and had some savings. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mrs Bs sick 
pay, and for longer than she would have received full pay. The policy would also have 
protected Mrs Bs savings so they could be used towards any other expenses she may have 
had.
Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Bs circumstances at the time, she wasnt affected by any of
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.
So, I think it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve
been. But I think she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And 
it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it 
was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.
Which means AXA doesnt have to pay back to Mrs B the cost of the policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman