DRN-4038610
The complaint
C complains that Police Credit Union Limited trading as Serve and Protect Credit Union 
would not change his title on their system or reference his new title when communicating 
with him.
What happened
C wanted to change his title, so he arranged a legal process to do this via a third party 
company. C was issued a master title deed confirming the change of title and he informed 
the various banks and building societies of his change of title so they could update their 
systems of the title change. C says that the only company who wouldnt change his title was 
Serve and Protect. He said they offered suggestions about changing his forename to the 
title, but C did not want to do this for religious reasons. C has said they referred to his 
incorrect title on the phone and he heard laughing noises coming from next to the call 
handler, which he thought was about him. C said he found this intimidating and they also 
referred to him by his former title on an email. He said Serve and Protect told him in an email 
they would be able to change his title, but then did not change his title. C made a complaint 
to Serve and Protect.
Serve and Protect did not uphold Cs complaint. They said they responded to him on 27 May 
2022, that they would update his personal details with his new title, but as this title was not 
available in their system, he was advised it would take five working days to take effect. They 
said they acknowledge that they shouldnt have told him that they would be able to change 
his title. Serve and Protect said there was no evidence to suggest that there was any 
laughing sound next to the call handler and they refute his claim that she was rude and 
intimidating towards him. C brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld Cs complaint. She said that during the call recording, the call 
handler refers to Cs previous title three times. She said while the first time may have been 
accidental, C was clear in telling her that he shouldnt be referred to by that title, however, 
she referred to C by the incorrect title a further two times on the call. Our investigator 
explained to C that Serve and Protect have system limitations and that is why they have 
been unable to amend his title on their system, and that our service cant make them change 
their systems. But she did say that Serve and Protect should write him a formal letter which 
acknowledges that their systems currently dont have his new title as an option under the title 
field and to pay him £100 compensation for the poor customer service.
C asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said £100 compensation was not 
sufficient and he said its about the punishment they should get for their wrongdoing. He 
suggested he should receive £300 compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to C that it is not within this services remit to tell a business what system 
changes they should make around a customers title. It would be the role of the regulator  
the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Serve and Protect to make 
changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. Our service acts as an informal 
dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. We look at the 
circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into account 
relevant industry guidance for example, make findings about whether a financial business 
has failed their customer.
Ive considered the events of what happened here. After C wrote to Serve and Protect with 
his new title and evidence of this, they responded to him to inform him that they had updated 
their records with the change, and this would take five working days to be reflected on his 
online account. Serve and Protect had set an expectation here for C that there would be no 
issue in changing his title here. So it would have been distressing for C when his title wasnt 
updated to his new title. And to compound matters, it was after the five working days when 
they informed C of this. Not only did Serve and Protect question the legality of how C 
obtained the new title, but they also referred to his previous title in this email. While this was 
a suggestion of how they could record his name on the system, I would have expected them 
to explain to C that their system didnt have the functionality to change his title to the new 
title and that was the reason why the title couldnt be changed. But it was only after C 
brought his complaint to our service that he found this out through our investigator. 
Ive listened to the phone call which C had with Serve and Protect on 24 June 2022. Im 
persuaded that the first time the call handler referred to C by his previous title was 
accidental. C made it clear that he shouldnt be referred to by that title, but the call handler 
referred to him by his previous title another two times on the call, to where C asked to be 
called by his first name instead. Its clear to me how frustrating this was to C, especially after 
he had told the call handler not to refer to him by that title. But I couldnt hear any laughing 
on the call, so I cant agree with C has said about this here. 
Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. C wants Serve and Protect 
to write him a formal letter explaining that they havent refused to call him by his new title 
and that the letter must state that they have a system limitation and that is why they cant 
update his records at present. Im satisfied that this is a fair request. I say this because 
Serve and Protect did not acknowledge directly to C that this was the reason why they were 
unable to amend his title to his new title, so Im persuaded that this formal letter, (on their 
letterhead paper) would be a proportionate step.
Finally, Ive considered what C has said about wanting £300 compensation and that Serve 
and Protect should be punished. But our awards are not designed to punish a business or to 
make it change the way it acts in order to protect other customers in the future. That is the 
role of the regulator. Compensation is a discretionary remedy that we sometimes award if we 
feel that a business has acted wrongfully and therefore caused distress and inconvenience 
to their customer over and above that which naturally flows from the event. When we 
recommend compensation, it is often modest and within our established guidelines. 
Im satisfied that £100 compensation is fair and reasonable here. I say this because Im 
persuaded that it recognises the impact that the errors made by Serve and Protect would 
have had on C. An expectation was initially set that his change of title could be actioned 
without any issue, for him to later find out that this wasnt the case, then to be referred to his 
previous title both on email and on the phone (three times) and to have the legality of the title 
questioned. This would have been distressing for C. So it follows Ill be asking Serve and 
Protect to put things right for C.Putting things right
Our investigator has suggested that Serve and Protect send C a formal letter which 
acknowledges their systems currently dont have his new title as an option under the title 
field and to pay him £100 compensation, which I think is reasonable in the circumstances, 
for the reasons Ive already given.
My final decision
Police Credit Union Limited trading as Serve and Protect Credit Union should write a formal 
letter to C which acknowledges their system limitations, as they currently dont have his new 
title as an option under the title field. They should also pay C £100 compensation for 
distress. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman