DRN-3043021
The complaint
This complaint is about a personal loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2010. Mrs O says St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Os 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Os representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Os. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Os complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think St Andrews made it clear that Mrs O didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out. I say this because St Andrews has confirmed Mrs O took the policy 
out during a phone conversation and its provided a script it says its representatives were 
advised to follow during telephone sales  I think its likely this was broadly followed. The 
wording prompted the representative to ask if Mrs O wanted the policy, which I think 
made it clear that the policy was optional.
St Andrews recommended the PPI to Mrs O, so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her. And the evidence about Mrs Os circumstances at the time, shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example Mrs O was eligible for the 
cover and although she had existing means she still seems to have had a need for 
cover. 
There was nothing about Mrs Os employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. And although Mrs O says she had a medical condition some time 
before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for St Andrews to have 
recommended it. I say this because Mrs O hadnt experienced the condition again since 
it originally occurred  around five years before the sale. And the other conditions she 
mentioned did not occur until after the policy start date.
Its possible the information St Andrews gave Mrs O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs O as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mrs O 
would have declined the cover had St Andrews done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs Os circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So, I think she would have 
still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs O would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide 
a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Os representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant St Andrews should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Os representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Os individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Os particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means St Andrews doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Os complaint  so I make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman