DRN-3795716
The complaint
Mr B complains through his representative that Lendable Ltd irresponsibly provided him with 
a credit card when he was unable to afford the repayments.
What happened
Lendable issued a credit card to Mr B, on his application, on 26 September 2021, with a 
credit limit of £200, which has not been increased.. He didnt start using the card until 31 
March 2022. He complained to Lendable that the card was unaffordable.
Lendable said it carried out eligibility checks, including reviewing Mr Ms credit record. It 
verified his income independently. It noted that he had several credit card accounts that 
were in default, but that these were more than 12 months old. And it noted that Mr B had 
cleared some old defaulted accounts. It said that he should have been able to afford the 
maximum £10 a month repayments. And it noted that he had kept making at least the 
minimum repayment. It said that Mr B presented a pattern of someone who was trying to 
rebuild their credit profile, and the card is tailored to someone in that position. It assessed 
the card was affordable.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our adjudicator said that he wasnt 
persuaded that Lendable had acted unfairly. Mr B was asked to provide further information 
about his financial circumstances, but he hasnt done so.
Mr B didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Lendable complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr B would have been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances at the time of each application, was there a point 
where Lendable ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Bs 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt 
have provided further credit?
The credit report obtained by Lendable at the time of Mr Bs application, showed that he had 
a number of credit card accounts, four of which were in default. He also had four active 
credit cards on which he was making at least the minimum payments where they had 
balances on them. He also had a communications debt marked as defaulted, for £30. 
Allowing for Mr B to use the new card up to its limit, he would be paying £10 a month, at 
least initially. Applying that minimum 5% payment to all his accounts including those that 
were in default, I calculate that Mr L should have been paying about £263 a month for his 
credit commitments. Lendable assessed his income at £1,138 a month, meaning he would 
have been spending about 23% of that on credit commitments, leaving about £975 for all his 
other commitments. On the face of it this looked affordable.
When Mr B had so many other credit cards, its arguable that there wasnt much point in 
providing him with another card. However Lendable has explained that this sort of card, with 
a minimal credit limit was to allow the consumer to rebuild his credit profile. So if he could be 
seen to be keeping accounts in good standing it would help his credit score.
There are of course questions raised by such a high level of defaulted debt. Lendable says 
the defaulted accounts were more than 12 months old, and Ive seen no evidence to suggest 
otherwise. The dates of default arent shown on the credit report.
Arguably Lendable could have done further checks because of those defaults. However it 
had to be shown that if it had done those checks it might not then have issued the card. This 
could have included reviewing his bank statements at the time. Our adjudicator requested 
these from Mr B and pointed out in her view thar she would need to see such evidence if she 
were to reconsider the matter. However Mr B hasnt supplied them.
Taking into account the information shown in Mr Bs credit report, his use of the account and 
the low minimum payment required even if he used the card up to the limit, in my view 
Lendable fairly assessed that the card was affordable. So I dont uphold the complaint.
I would finally point out that Mr B didnt start using the card until 31 March 2022. I note that 
his representatives complaint is dated several weeks before then. I think it fair to say that it 
should have been clear to Mr B that he shouldnt use the card, as by that time he ought to 
have been aware hed already said he couldnt afford to do so. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman