DRN-3240740
The complaint
Mr H complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited didnt repair his van properly
when he claimed on his commercial motor insurance policy. He also said the repairs took too
long and he didnt have another vehicle while his was being repaired.  
What happened
Mr Hs van was damaged in an accident, so he claimed on his policy. Advantage accepted
the claim and sent Mr Hs van to one of its approved repairers to be fixed. Once the repairs
were completed Mr Hs van was returned to him, however it had further issues, so Mr H
returned it to Advantage.
Mr Hs van was in and out of the approved repairers a couple of times and each time Mr H
found issues with the repairs. He was then referred to a manufacturing garage as the
repairer didnt think the issues were accident related, and so advised him to claim on the
vans warranty.
The manufacturing garage said the issues with Mr Hs van were to do with a leak on the
engine swirl flap. It said it was leaking as it had suffered damage and was broken. Mr H paid
for the repairs to his van and asked Advantage to cover the costs. Advantage initially refused
and said it didnt think the damage was related to the accident. Mr H didnt agree and
referred his complaint here, he said he had been without a van for 11 weeks and asked
Advantage to cover 60% of his loss of earnings for that time.
When Mr Hs complaint was referred here Advantage reviewed its position and said it
thought the damage was most likely caused in the accident and agreed to cover the parts of
Mr Hs repair bill which related to this. Our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint and
thought Advantages offer was fair. And while Mr H had been without his van for weeks, he
didnt think Mr H had been able to evidence how this financially impacted his earnings.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 26 November 2021 where I said:
Advantage has agreed to cover the costs of the repairs which are accident related. 
However, its not said exactly what its covering. The invoice Mr H has provided comes to 
£885.68. In this invoice I can also see Mr H had new rear brakes fitted to his van, as the 
accident related damage is to the front of the van Advantage has said it wouldnt cover 
these. Im satisfied thats fair as theyre dont appear to be accident related. From looking at 
the invoice Mr H paid, it appears £292.10 is related to the rear brakes. If you deduct this 
from the total invoice it leaves £593.58. Therefore, Advantage should pay Mr H £593.58 for 
the additional repairs needed to his van.
Mr H has also said because of the issues with the repair hes not had a van for 11 weeks,
except for the hire van he was given for one of those weeks. Advantage has said Mr H has
had a courtesy van or hire van for the entire time his van was in for repair. Mr H disputes this
and Advantage hasnt provided any details of when or what vehicle Mr H was given. Ive also
noted that Mr Hs policy says he will be provided a courtesy van while his is in for repair.
As Advantage hasnt shown Mr H received a courtesy van while his was in for repair, as per
his policy terms and conditions. Im more persuaded by Mr Hs testimony that he only got a
hire van for one week. Ive therefore looked at the impact this had on Mr H. Hes asked for
60% of his lost earning for that time and has valued that at £7,980.68. While I can see this is
60% of his earnings for around 12 weeks work, Im not persuaded its fair and reasonable to
tell Advantage to pay that.
I say this because Mr H hasnt shown how not having a van for that time impacted him and
how hes come to 60% of his lost earnings. Mr H has also said he was able to get to work
but had to use taxis and public transport which wasnt ideal. I therefore think Advantage
should compensate him for this additional unnecessary distress and inconvenience. Given
Mr H had to do this for around 11-12 weeks, as well as having his van taken back in
repeatedly for additional work and having to then get it repaired at a manufacturing garage,
Im satisfied hes suffered significant unnecessary distress and inconvenience. To
compensate him for this Advantage should pay him an additional £750.  
Mr H responded and said he didnt have any further comments. Advantage responded and 
didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said it agreed to cover the cost of repairs to try 
and resolve Mr Hs complaint and that it didnt think they were accident related. Advantage 
also said Mr H had requested a courtesy vehicle which he wasnt entitled to under the policy 
and had been offered a hire vehicle from 30 March until 15 April but couldnt see it had been 
extended beyond then or that Mr H had evidenced him using taxis or public transport. 
Because of this it didnt think £750 distress and inconvenience was justified.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Advantages comments, but theyve not persuaded me to change my mind. I 
say this because in an e-mail from Advantage to us on 27 August 2021 it said Mr H has 
provided evidence that supports that the damage to his air intake regulator may have 
occurred in the claim on notice and without evidence to the contrary, I feel we should give 
[Mr H] the benefit of the doubt . Im therefore satisfied that its most likely the additional 
damage is accident related, so I dont agree Advantage only paid it to try and resolve Mr Hs 
complaint. 
Furthermore, while Advantage has said Mr H had a hire vehicle from 30 March to 15 April, 
its not provided any evidence to support this. As I said in my provisional decision Mr H has 
disputed this so without evidence to show he received a hire vehicle, Im not persuaded 
Advantage has done enough to show he had one. Even if Advantage did provide this 
evidence, I dont think it would make a difference. I say that because that still leaves around 
10 weeks Mr H didnt have a vehicle for, due to Advantages error. Mr H said he had to take 
taxis and public transport during this time. I appreciate Mr H hasnt provided evidence of this, 
which is why Im not making a financial award for the cost he would have incurred. Taking 
everything into account, Im satisfied he suffered significant distress and inconvenience as 
stated above in my provisional decision. So, Im satisfied £750 is a fair and reasonable 
amount to compensate him for this.   
My final decisionFor the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. I 
require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr H £593.58 for the repairs to his 
van, and £750 for distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman