DRN-2827530
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Oplo PL Ltd trading at the time as 1st Stop Personal Loans Limited 
(1st Stop) lent to her in an irresponsible manner. She also complains that 1st Stop failed to 
treat her fairly when she faced problems repaying her loan.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint last month. In that decision 
I explained why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from that decision 
below. I said;
Mrs K was given a single loan by 1st Stop in January 2019. She borrowed £10,000 
and agreed to repay the loan in 60 monthly instalments. 1st Stop used around half of 
the loan proceeds to directly repay some other loans Mrs K had outstanding. And 
Mrs K told 1st Stop that she intended to use the remaining funds to consolidate some 
other borrowing.
Around nine months into the loan term Mrs K told 1st Stop that she was facing 
problems making her repayments due to her husbands ill health. In the following 
months Mrs K missed some repayments and made reduced repayments at other 
times. In January 2020 1st Stop sent Mrs K a notification that it intended to default 
her account. Mrs K brought her account back up to date, and continues to make the 
necessary repayments.
1st Stop gathered some information from Mrs K before it agreed the loan. It asked 
her for details of her income, and used some industry statistical data to estimate 
Mrs Ks normal expenditure. And it checked her credit file to understand how much 
she was paying each month on other credit and to look at how shed managed credit 
in the past.
Mrs K was entering into a significant commitment with 1st Stop. She would need to 
make monthly repayments for a period of five years. So I think it was right that 
1st Stop wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information 
about Mrs Ks financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think the 
checks 1st Stop did achieved that aim  I think the checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender needs to 
react appropriately to the information that is shown by those checks. So Ive looked 
at the results of 1st Stops checks to see whether the conclusion it reached, to 
approve Mrs Ks loan application, was reasonable.
Mrs K declared her normal income as £1,600 per month. But the checks 1st Stop 
performed suggested that Mrs Ks actual income was higher  at £2,200 per month. 
I dont know why that discrepancy occurred, but 1st Stop decided that it would use 
the lower income amount when looking at whether Mrs K could afford the 
repayments she would need to make on the loan. I think it was reasonable for 
1st Stop to conclude from its checks that Mrs K earned at least as much as shed 
declared.
Mrs Ks credit file showed that she had a number of other credit accounts 
outstanding. As well as a mortgage she had several unsecured loans and credit card 
accounts. In total her unsecured credit amounted to almost £15,000. I think that 
should have caused some concerns to 1st Stop. But Mrs K had told 1st Stop that her 
reason for requesting the loan was to allow her to consolidate much of her 
outstanding debt. I dont think it was unreasonable for 1st Stop to rely on what Mrs K 
had said.
But 1st Stop went further and used around half of the loan proceeds to directly repay 
three of Mrs Ks outstanding credit accounts. That reduced her outstanding debt to 
around £6,500. And Mrs K was left with around £5,000 from the loan that she said 
she would use against those other debts. So I dont think the amount of debt that 
Mrs K initially had outstanding would have been a reason to expect 1st Stop to 
decline her loan application.
Mrs Ks credit file also showed that shed faced some problems managing her debts 
in the past. In particular she had defaulted on a number of accounts in 2013 and 
2014. I can see from the notes it recorded at that time that 1st Stop asked Mrs K 
about these problems and she explained they were due to a fall in her income whilst 
she was on maternity leave. Mrs K subsequently settled all those loans in full. And 
more recently Mrs Ks mortgage showed that shed entered a repayment 
arrangement. Again 1st Stops notes show that it discussed those problems with 
Mrs K. She explained theyd been caused by her husband becoming ill and being 
unable to work for around five months. But her credit file showed that the mortgage 
payments were now back on track.
Overall, in the months immediately before taking this loan, Mrs Ks credit file doesnt 
suggest that she was facing any serious problems managing her money. Her credit 
accounts all showed that the required repayments were being made on time. And it 
didnt show that she appeared to have been taking new credit to help support her day 
to day living costs or manage existing credit repayments. And by consolidating a 
number of her debts with the proceeds of the loan from 1st Stop Mrs K would 
significantly reduce her total monthly repayments.
So I dont think that 1st Stops checks  that I consider to have been proportionate  
would reasonably lead to a conclusion that Mrs K wouldnt be able to repay this loan 
in a sustainable manner. I dont currently think 1st Stop did anything wrong by giving 
this loan to Mrs K.
Mrs K made her repayments as agreed for around nine months. But she then got in 
touch with 1st Stop to explain that her husband had needed an emergency operation 
and would be unable to work for around six weeks. So she said she would be unable 
to make her normal repayment that month, but things should be back to normal the 
following month. Mrs K made a reduced repayment that month, but then made up the 
difference later in the month. But the repayment for the following month was also 
missed and 1st Stop found it difficult to get back in touch with Mrs K.In January 2020, in line with its normal processes, 1st Stop advised Mrs K that it 
intended to visit her at home to get back in contact with her. At that point Mrs K called 
1st Stop and started to discuss how she could get the account back on track. And 
over the following weeks she discussed what arrangements she could make to repay 
the arrears on her account. But in the absence of any firm agreement, 1st Stop sent 
Mrs K a letter advising that it intended to default her account. But around the same 
time Mrs K reached a repayment agreement with 1st Stop and the lender let her 
know that she was no longer at risk of her account being defaulted if she continued to 
follow the agreement to clear the arrears.
I dont think the steps I have described above were unreasonable. Mrs K had signed 
an agreement with 1st Stop to repay the money shed been lent. When she failed to 
make those repayments 1st Stop was entitled to ask why. It seems to me that 
1st Stop was unable to offer much support to Mrs K if she failed to respond to the 
letters that it sent and the phone calls that it made. But, when she did get in touch, 
I think that 1st Stop met its regulatory responsibilities to treat her fairly, with 
forbearance and with due consideration. I think the repayment arrangements it 
agreed allowed Mrs K a reasonable period of breathing space to get her finances 
back on track.
I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for Mrs K. But, in summary, 
I currently think the checks 1st Stop did before agreeing this loan were proportionate. 
And I dont think those checks should have led to the loan request being declined. 
I dont think that 1st Stop treated Mrs K unfairly when she faced problems making her 
contractual repayments. So I dont currently think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments and evidence. 1st Stop has said 
that it is happy with my provisional decision. Mrs K doesnt agree with what I said. Although 
I am only summarising here what Mrs K has said, I have considered her entire response 
carefully before writing this decision.
Mrs K says that the loan required her to repay more than £7,000 of interest  she doesnt 
think that suggests responsible lending. She has provided us with copies of a letter that 
1st Stop has recently sent to her about some arrears on her account. She doesnt think that 
is a correct reflection of her loan balance. She doesnt think my provisional decision resulted 
in a fair outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully thought about what Mrs K has said to us, and the new evidence she has 
provided I have not been persuaded that I should change the findings I set out in my 
provisional decision. So I will not be upholding this complaint. But I would like to comment on 
the additional points Mrs K has raised.
Mrs K borrowed £10,000 from 1st Stop. The amount she needed to repay, both monthly and 
in total was clearly set out in the loan agreement that she signed. So I think it reasonable to 
conclude that, at the time she took the loan, she was aware of, and accepted, the terms on 
which it had been granted, and the amounts she needed to repay. So I cannot reasonably 
conclude that the amount of interest that was due is an indicator that the loan was lent 
irresponsibly.When 1st Stop sent its final response to Mrs K about her complaint, in early 2020, it noted 
that she had brought her loan back up to date. It seems that since then her account has 
fallen back into arrears. But since that happened after Mrs K made her complaint it isnt 
something that I can reasonably consider here.
But I can see from the contact notes that 1st Stop sent to us that Mrs K took advantage of a 
payment holiday following a reduction in her income due to the Coronavirus pandemic. 
I havent seen a full account statement for Mrs Ks loan, but would think it likely that the 
arrears 1st Stop is telling her about is as a result of those deferred payments. I note that the 
letter does say that, although 1st Stop is required to tell Mrs K about the arrears, if they 
arose as a result of a Coronavirus payment holiday they shouldnt cause any concerns, or 
have any impact on a consumers credit history. But Id encourage Mrs K to get in touch with 
1st Stop to make sure that is the reason for her arrears.
For the reasons I set out in my provisional decision I think the checks 1st Stop did before 
agreeing this loan were proportionate. And I dont think those checks should have led to the 
loan request being declined. I dont think that 1st Stop treated Mrs K unfairly when she faced 
problems making her contractual repayments. So I dont think this complaint should be 
upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Oplo PL Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman