DRN-1612378
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC removed his overdraft facility without informing 
him. Hes also unhappy it wrote to him at his previous address and recorded adverse 
information on his credit file.
What happened
Mr P opened a student account with Barclays on 12 April 2007. His account had a fee free 
overdraft facility of £1500. In 2014 Mr P graduated and, after that date, his account was 
changed from a student account to a basic current account. 
In around 2014 Mr P migrated overseas. He said he provided his new address to Barclays at 
around the time that he moved abroad although he couldnt recall when. After Mr P moved 
abroad he stopped using his account. But he incurred charges for having an overdraft facility 
as this was no longer a fee free account feature. And, over time, these fees caused his 
account to become significantly overdrawn. 
On 6 April 2018 Barclays wrote to Mr P offering financial assistance given the charges he 
was incurring on his account. And, in May 2018, Mr P contacted Barclays as he wanted to 
make payments towards his overdraft whilst he was abroad. Barclays informed him it 
couldnt take payments over the telephone. But it offered to set up a payment plan, which Mr 
P declined due to concerns this would impact his credit file.
In June 2018 Mr P contacted Barclays again. He said he was experiencing financial hardship 
and told Barclays his income wasnt enough to support his overdraft. He said he wanted to 
reduce his account balance and mentioned hed be returning to the UK in December 2018. 
As a result of this conversation Barclays refunded some of the charges Mr P had incurred.
In December 2018 Mr P telephoned Barclays to advise he wanted to pay his full account 
balance. Barclays provided him with the account information he needed. However, Mr Ps 
balance wasnt repaid. So charges and arrears continued to accrue on his account. 
In 2019 Barclays continued to send numerous letters to Mr P advising that his current 
account was overdrawn and requesting that he clear the balance on his account. But this 
correspondence was sent to Mr Ps UK address where he was no longer living. So Mr P 
didnt receive the letters Barclays had sent until he returned to the UK.
By 17 June 2019, Barclays still hadnt received a payment from Mr P. At this stage his 
account balance exceeded his agreed overdraft limit. So, Barclays removed his overdraft 
facility and sent him letter notifying him his overdraft had been withdrawn.
Mr P cleared his outstanding account balance on 31 August 2019. However, by this time 
adverse credit markers had been recorded on his credit file. Mr P was felt this was unfair. He 
said he hadnt received any of the correspondence Barclays had sent about the status of his 
account. And he said, if he had, hed have paid funds into his account as requested. So, he 
complained to Barclays about what had happened.After Barclays investigated Mr Ps concerns it said it was aware hed migrated overseas. But 
it said it had no record of him ever updating his address with it. So, it didnt uphold his 
complaint about communicating with him about his overdrawn account at the address it held 
for him. And it said charges had been applied in line with the terms of Mr Ps account. But it 
refunded £235.50 of the charges Mr P had incurred as a goodwill gesture.
Barclays considered Mr Ps request that it to remove the adverse credit markers it had 
recorded. But it told him it wouldnt amend any information it had reported to credit reference 
agencies (CRAs) as it had a duty to accurately record information about how he was 
managing his account. It did, however, acknowledge it had provided incorrect information 
about the date from which it had reported information on his credit file. So, it credited his 
account with £50 compensation to recognise that error.
But Mr P wasnt happy with Barclays response to his complaint. So he referred it to our 
service. Our investigator assessed the information Mr P and Barclays had provided but they 
didnt recommend his complaint should be upheld. They thought Barclays had dealt with this 
complaint fairly and they didnt think it needed to do anything more. But Mr P disagreed and 
asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I can see Mr P has gone to some 
trouble to provide us with some very detailed submissions. I want to assure him that I have 
read everything he has sent us. I hope he will understand if I dont address every comment 
hes made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key to the complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr P experienced here. I can see how strongly he feels 
about the issues raised in this complaint. But Im not going to be able to help him in the way 
he would like. Ill explain why. 
My role is to assess whether I think Barclays made a mistake, or treated Mr P unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right. I have to look at this complaint impartially and, while Ive 
had regard to all Mr P has said, I also have to be fair to Barclays too. 
There are three parts to this complaint and I think it will make things clearer if I deal with 
them separately. 
Barclays decision to continue to write to Mr P at his previous address
I can see Barclays wrote to Mr P at his previous address on a number of occasions during 
2018 and 2019 regarding his account being overdrawn and the charges he was incurring. 
These letters told Mr P Barclays may send information regarding the conduct of his account 
to CRAs, which might affect his ability to obtain credit. And the correspondence Barclays 
sent informed him of what action hed need to take to avoid that. I think this information was 
helpful because it clearly informed Mr P of what would happen if his account continued to be 
overdrawn.
Mr P told our service he didnt receive any of the correspondence Barclays sent him about 
the status of his account. And he said he updated his address after he moved  although he 
isnt able to say when he amended his address details. However, he says this was around 
the time he relocated, which was approximately five years ago.Barclays said it was aware Mr P had migrated abroad. But it disputed hed changed his 
address. I can see Barclays listened to a number telephone conversations it had had with Mr 
P to establish whether hed asked it to update his address during those calls. But it wasnt 
able to find evidence that hed requested it change his address or customer profile. I think 
this goes to demonstrate Barclays was trying to undertake a full and candid investigation on 
Mr Ps behalf. 
Ive looked carefully at the contact notes Barclays provided our service. However, theres no 
reference to Mr P asking it to change his correspondence to an address overseas. Given the 
level of detail recorded in the notes Im persuaded that if Mr P had asked Barclays to update 
his address this would have been documented.
Mr Ps shown our service screenshots of a webchat he had with in November 2017 in which 
he provided his overseas address so it could send him a PINsentry device there. I can see 
he gave his full address. However, he didnt instruct Barclays to record this as his permanent 
address. And for Barclays to change his address on its records Mr P would have had to 
unequivocally ask it to do that. So, I cant fairly criticise it for continuing to use Mr Ps UK 
address for correspondence. 
I understand that Mr P had access to online banking. So, Im satisfied he would have been 
able to see the correspondence address Barclays held for him when logging into his account 
online.  Under the terms and conditions of his account Mr P was responsible for notifying 
Barclays of any changes to his address or contact details. As I havent seen enough to 
persuade me that Mr P instructed Barclays to change his address I cant fairly find it made 
an error in continuing to write to him at his UK address.
The UK address Barclays held on file for Mr P was his mothers address. Theres reference 
in Barclays contact notes that he was aware correspondence was being sent there and he 
said he received the letters Barclays sent on arriving back in the UK. So, Im satisfied the 
correspondence Barclays sent Mr P about his account was successfully delivered. 
I appreciate that Mr P wasnt residing at his mothers address at the time the letters were 
sent. And I recognise hes unhappy that Barclays corresponded with him there. But, as his 
UK address was the only address Barclays held for him, I cant fairly criticise it for continuing 
to use at that address.
Mr P said if he had received correspondence about his overdrawn account balance hed 
have paid funds into his account as requested. But Im not persuaded by that argument. Ill 
explain why.
Ive already mentioned that Mr P had access to online banking. So, Im satisfied hed have 
been aware of the increasing overdrawn balance on his account irrespective of him not 
receiving Barclays correspondence. And I think hed therefore have had opportunity to 
contact Barclays about settling the overdrawn balance on his account even without sight of 
the letters it sent him.
As I set out in the background to this complaint, Mr P contacted Barclays in May 2018 about 
his overdrawn account. So, Im satisfied he had an awareness of the status of his account 
from May 2018 onwards. And I can see he continued to communicate with Barclays after 
that point. Im therefore persuaded that hed have been aware his account remained 
overdrawn and that charges were continuing to accrue.
Overall, I think Mr P had opportunities to arrange to pay his overdrawn balance from the date 
he became aware of the status of his account. But he didnt do that until August 2019. And in those circumstances I dont think the outcome would have been different had Mr P received 
the letters Barclays sent to his UK address.
I can see Barclays applied charges to Mr Ps account for having an overdraft facility. It was 
entitled to do so under the terms of his account. However, I can see Barclays agreed to 
waive some charges Mr P incurred. I think this demonstrates Barclays was being 
sympathetic to Mr Ps financial difficulties and acting in a fair manner. It isnt something Id 
have told Barclays to do as part of my decision.
Barclays decision to remove Mr Ps overdraft facility
Barclays said Mr Ps overdraft facility was removed following a review of his account. It said 
it would do so in circumstances where a customer isnt making regular credits to their 
account. Ive seen evidence that Mr P didnt make regular credits to his account after 23 
January 2019 until 2 August 2019. 
I appreciate that Mr P is unhappy Barclays removed his overdraft facility. But Im persuaded 
it did that as part of its duty to lend responsibly, which isnt something I can fairly criticise. 
And I can see its acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ps account in the action it 
took. It follows that Im not persuaded it made an error.
The decision to record information on Mr Ps credit file
I know that Mr P feels Barclays has acted unfairly in reporting adverse information to CRAs 
about the way in which he was managing his account. I appreciate the information Barclays 
recorded will affect Mr Ps credit score for some time. I understand hes already experienced 
difficulties in obtaining the mortgage he wants. But, financial businesses have a duty to 
make sure that the information they report to credit reference agencies is accurate. 
Here, Barclays reported that Mr Ps account was overdrawn and in arrears. As thats a true 
reflection of what happened I cant say Barclays acted unfairly and unreasonably in reporting 
this information. Im satisfied that Barclays reported information about how Mr P was 
managing his account properly. So I cant ask it to remove or change the information it 
recorded.
I can see Barclays provided incorrect information to Mr P about the date from which it had 
reported information on his credit file. I understand that its credited his account with £50 as 
a goodwill gesture to recognise that error. Im satisfied that this is a fair amount of 
compensation thats proportionate to the inconvenience and worry that Mr P wouldve been 
caused here. Its in line with our approach in similar scenarios and its what I would have told 
Barclays to pay. I appreciate that Mr P may want Barclays to pay more. But I havent seen 
enough evidence to persuade me that a higher award is warranted here.
I know that Mr P will be disappointed by this decision. But, this now brings to an end what 
we, in trying to resolve his dispute with Barclays informally, can do for him. Im sorry we 
cant help Mr P any further with this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Julie RobertsonOmbudsman