DRN-3499161
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Os complaint is about The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) declining a 
mortgage application they made in 2021. They dont consider TMWs reasons for declining 
the application were reasonable.
What happened
In October 2021 Mr and Mrs O applied for a buy-to-let (BTL)mortgage to purchase a rental 
property. They wanted to borrow slightly over £103,000 over 35 years on an interest-only 
basis. Mr O was recorded as being a self-employed engineer and landlord. He received a 
gross income of £7,200 from his rental property and didnt have any other income at that 
time. Mrs O wasnt working at that time. 
TMW declined the application due to Mr Os employment history. The concerns were about 
the fact that he worked overseas for a significant amount of the years prior to the Covid-19 
pandemic. In addition, it had concerns about the Mr Os links to overseas countries as it was 
unable to validate the payments made to his overseas account.
Mr and Mrs O appealed the decision and provided a letter from a prospective employer 
dated 16 November 2021, which offered Mr O a job in the UK, subjected to some conditions 
being met. A draft copy of a conditional offer of employment was attached. In addition, a 
letter detailing an offer of employment, starting in December 2021, for Mrs O was also 
provided.
TMW considered the information Mr O provided about his upcoming employment, but it was 
not willing to proceed with the application. It said it would do so once Mr and Mrs O had 
started their employments and could verify their income by way of bank statements or 
payslips. 
Mr and Mrs O complained, as they didnt think they had been treated fairly.
TMW responded to the complaint on 12 January 2022. It confirmed that the application was 
declined due to multiple factors relating to Mr Os previous employment. One of those factors 
was that Mr O had confirmed hed spent more time living abroad over the previous three 
years than he had in the UK, which didnt fit with TMWs criteria that borrowers needed to 
have lived at UK addresses for at least three years. In addition, at the time of the application, 
he wasnt employed and couldnt provide evidence of an income. TMW apologised for any 
inconvenience its decision had caused Mr and Mrs O, but it didnt consider it had made an 
error. 
Mr and Mrs O remained unhappy and referred their complaint to this service. They told us 
that they had sourced a mortgage elsewhere to purchase the property, but were paying a 
higher rate of interest than they would have been with TMW. As such, they wanted it to 
reimburse them with the higher amount of the monthly payments and compensate them for 
the stress TMWs actions caused them.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. She explained that while Mr O had residency in the UK, due to his historic working 
patterns, he wouldnt have fulfilled the definition of a full UK residence during the years prior 
to him obtaining UK based work during the Covid-19 pandemic. As TMW required its 
borrowers to be UK residents, and Mr O was not employed at that time, the investigator 
didnt think its concerns about him fulfilling the residency criteria were unreasonable. She 
was satisfied that Mr and Mrs Os application had been assessed fairly.
Mr and Mrs O didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They highlighted that the decision 
in principle had been approved a few weeks earlier and nothing had changed about their 
circumstances between then and the full application being made. They also said that Mrs O 
didnt have a history of working overseas, if that was truly the main issue. Mr O also 
confirmed that at the point of the application he did qualify as a UK resident. He pointed out 
that having worked abroad in the past didnt mean that he would again, and not having done 
so, didnt mean that someone wouldnt in the future.
The investigator considered the further comments made, but they didnt change her 
conclusions. She did, however, confirm that a decision in principle doesnt mean that a 
mortgage application will be accepted, as an application is subject to full underwriting, which 
a decision in principle is not. It was also confirmed that lending criteria applied to all 
applicants, which meant that if one didnt fulfil the criteria, the application wouldnt be 
accepted.
Mr and Mrs O remained unhappy with the investigators conclusions. They reiterated their 
point about past employment potentially differing from future employment, and that Mr O 
qualified as a UK resident at the time of the application. They asked that the complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman if the investigator didnt address their points and change her 
conclusions.
The investigator confirmed that the issue of Mr O working abroad again in the future had 
been part of TMWs underwriting decision and it had been covered in her view. As such, the 
complaint would be referred to an ombudsman for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Initially, I would explain that lending decision are a matter of the lenders commercial 
judgement and in general, it is not my role to interfere with that judgement or to 
second-guess a decision to, or not to, lend. Each lender will decide what risks it is willing to 
take, which it is allowed to do, and this is reflected in its lending criteria. A lender is able to 
set its own criteria as it sees fit and, as long as it is applied consistently to consumers with 
the same circumstances, this service wouldnt find a lender had behaved unreasonably or 
treated a consumer unfairly.
I will firstly comment on the fact that Mr and Mrs O were given a decision in principle only a 
matter of weeks before the mortgage application was declined. A decision in principle is just 
that  it is based on some basic principles and doesnt mean that an application will be 
accepted. It is also based solely on what the potential borrowers tell the business and 
doesnt involve them providing supporting evidence or an assessment of that evidence. 
Thats not done until a full application is made and what is established during that process 
can mean that an application will be declined.Mr and Mrs O have focused on there having been no income requirement for an 
experienced landlord taking out a BTL mortgage with TMW. While that may be the case, 
TMW had other criteria that had to be met in order for a mortgage application to be 
accepted. In this case it required that its borrowers had to be UK residents who hadnt had 
an overseas address in the last three years. For a joint application, both borrowers would 
need to fulfil this requirement.
While Mr O had a home base in the UK, he confirmed to TMW that during the three years 
prior to the application hed lived and worked outside of the UK for a significant proportion of 
the year  six weeks out of every eight. So while Mr O had a UK address, his own account 
evidences that he didnt live in it most of the time, but rather lived abroad. As such, he didnt 
fit TMWs lending criteria and it was not unreasonable of it to decline the application on that 
basis. 
In addition, as Mr and Mrs O highlighted, TMW had some concerns about the transactions 
on his overseas bank account, as it showed multiple transactions overseas between May 
and August 2021, when he reported that he was working only in the UK. While, as Mr O has 
said transactions showing an overseas company wouldnt necessarily evidence that he was 
overseas at that time, some of the transactions, such as food deliveries in an overseas city, 
would indicate that he was abroad at those times. Given the country in question was not 
allowing tourists at that time, it would indicate that Mr O may well have been working abroad 
at that time, rather than in the UK. 
When Mr O provided evidence that he had been offered a job in the UK going forward, TMW 
agreed to reconsider its decision, which was reasonable of it, given he didnt historically fulfil 
its lending criteria at the point of the application. However, the evidence of employment Mr O 
provide was a conditional offer and the contract of employment was only a draft. He hadnt 
started his employment nor was a start date specified. As such, TMW didnt consider the 
offer altered the position or evidenced that Mr O was likely to remain living in the UK going 
forward. However, it said that it would reconsider its decision once Mr O could provide it with 
evidence that he had taken up the employment. This seems an entirely reasonable position 
for it to have taken. 
Overall, although I dont think Mr and Mrs O will agree with me, I dont think TMW did 
anything wrong when it declined their application in 2021. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs O to accept or reject my decision 
before 14 September 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman