DRN-4036838
The complaint
Mr P, through his representative, complains that Western Circle Ltd lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr P was approved for one loan of £1,000 repayable over six months at a rate of £271.35 
each month from April 2022. The loan was paid off on time. 
Western Circle issued its final response letter (FRL) after Mr P had complained and gave 
reasons why it did not think it had done anything wrong.
Mr Ps representative referred Mr Ps complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. The 
representative telephoned us to set up the complaint. One of our adjudicators looked at the 
complaint. The adjudicator had received from Western Circle its records including a recorded 
call between Mr P and a Western Circle representative during which the loan application was 
discussed on 12 April 2022. Mr P confirmed various facts during that call. The loan was 
approved. Our adjudicator did not think that Western Circle had lent irresponsibly. 
Mr Ps representative was not content on behalf of Mr P and had a conversation with one of 
our adjudicators to explain why. Mr Ps representative sent in written submissions. In it the 
representative described Mr P as having learning difficulties and that he filled in the figures 
on the application incorrectly.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide and I have listened to all of those 
recorded calls  the one with Western Circle and Mr P and the other two being to set up the 
complaint with us and the one between Mr Ps representative and one of our adjudicators. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Western Circle had to assess the lending to check if Mr P could afford to pay back the 
amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Western Circles checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Mr Ps income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Western Circle should 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr P. These factors 
include:
Mr P having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr P having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr P coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr P. But this is not relevant to Mr Ps 
situation as he took one loan. 
Western Circle was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay the loan  
not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr P was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ps complaint.
Two issues have been raised by Mr Ps representative as being significant reasons for 
saying that Western Circle got it wrong approving this loan for Mr P. One relates to his 
income as Mr Ps representative says that Mr P has a problem which means he may not 
have given the right information  namely that the income he gave of £2,750 was before tax 
and in fact he ought to have given the figure after tax. So, the checks Western Circle carried 
out were not thorough enough. The other issue Mr Ps representative has raised is Western 
Circles lack of awareness about Mr Ps problem which could loosely be described as having 
an issue with reading documents or understanding what may be asked of him.  
The starting point must be that Mr P applied for the loan and so Western Circle would have 
approached the application on the basis that Mr P would want the cash. Then Western Circle 
is not likely to have appreciated that Mr P had an issue to do with reading documents or 
understanding what may be being asked of him unless he had mentioned it. Ive seen no 
evidence that Mr P did tell Western Circle this. 
And even if he had, there was a telephone conversation between Western Circle and Mr P 
which would have afforded him the chance to talk through matters and to verbally give the 
facts needed and so avoided anything written. So, I think that would have been the way for 
any such issues to have been overcome.
As for the income figure, during that conversation Mr P re-confirmed his income as £2,750. I have listened to that call and I noticed that Mr P corrected an important matter relating to 
the planned agreement  namely the repayment figure  and so I gathered that Mr P was 
very clear on what he had been applying for and was aware of the detail. So, I do not 
consider it persuasive that Mr P was not aware of the loan terms or what details hed given 
to Western Circle. 
Western Circle approached the loan in a proportionate way by relying on the information 
Mr P had given it, carrying out the checks it did (including an income verification check) and 
speaking to Mr P directly. Mr P was a new customer, this was a modest loan of £1,000 over 
a relatively short term. Id consider it to have been disproportionate for Western Circle to ask 
to see and to review Mr Ps bank statements, or to have carried out any additional checks 
over and above what it did do at the time it approved the loan.
Mr Ps representative has raised the fact that Mr Ps outgoings were more than the figures 
Mr P had given to Western Circle. That was cured by Western Circle as it has explained to 
us that after carrying out the relevant checks it had increased Mr Ps outgoings figure. So, 
this likely accounted for the additional sums to which Mr Ps representative had referred. 
Mr P had told Western Circle his outgoings were £950 a month and Western Circle 
increased that to be over £2,000. 
In the circumstances I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint. . 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman