DRN-3245872
The complaint
Mr M brings this complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) in his 
capacity as director of a limited company (the company). Mr M is unhappy that NatWest 
wants to charge the company a fee for renewing its loan facility. He is also unhappy that the 
loan hasnt reverted to a follow-on rate of interest at the end of a fixed-rate period.
What happened
The events leading up to the complaint can be summarised succinctly. Briefly, in 2016 the 
company was looking to move its business banking to NatWest. Mr M says that a loan of 
£250,000 was negotiated over a 15-year term, with the first three years on a fixed rate. Mr M 
says his understanding was that at the end of the three-year fixed rate the loan would revert 
to a follow-on rate of 4.5% above Base Rate. The loan completed on 27 April 2017.
Mr M has explained that when he received the loan agreement, the term was shown as 
36 months, but with no interest rate quoted, and the agreement said that fees may be 
applicable when refinancing. Mr M says that the company didnt want to commit to having to 
pay for any further revaluation or administrative fees. He spoke to his relationship manager 
(who has since retired from the bank) and was told the fees were discretionary.
Based on this conversation, and his understanding that fees were discretionary, Mr M signed 
the agreement on behalf of the company. Following completion NatWest set the interest rate 
at 4.81%, which was higher than the rate of 3.69% Mr M had discussed with the bank. After 
a complaint, the bank adjusted the interest rate.
When the three-year term expired, NatWest has told the company that a fee of £3,157.50 is 
payable to renew the facility for five years, and that another fee will be payable five years 
after that if the facility is renewed again.
Mr M says that this isnt what his understanding of the arrangement was at all. He said the 
company only entered into the agreement because hed been assured by the bank that fees 
were discretionary.
Mr M complained to NatWest, saying that he had understood there to be a follow-on rate for 
the remainder of the 15-year term. Mr M also said that he thought fees were discretionary.
NatWest didnt uphold the complaint. The bank explained that the facility had been 
structured to be repayable over a 15-year period, but the facility was renewable, with no 
follow-on rate, and with fees payable at the banks discretion. When the three-year facility 
expired, a new re-finance was required, which, NatWest said, was subject to an 
arrangement fee which it wasnt prepared to waive.
Unhappy with NatWests response, Mr M complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that the documentation was clear that the facility was for three years, with no follow-on rate. 
He also didnt think it was unreasonable for the bank to charge an arrangement fee to renew 
the facility, as this was provided for in the documentation.
Mr M didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. Mr M says he believes the company was misled from the start. His relationship 
manager initially claimed that hed ultimately be able to approve lending of £400,000, and 
then £377,000 plus an additional £115,000. But after the initial £250,000 loan was granted, 
further borrowing wasnt possible due to the companys spending. Mr M also says that, 
although it was in the original 2017 paperwork that at the end of three years the loan would 
need to be repaid or re-financed (with a fee of 1.5%), he was pressurised by the bank into 
signing the paperwork. As a result, Mr M believes he was misled into switching the 
companys banking to NatWest. 
As the matter is unresolved it now falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken careful note of everything the parties have said, including Mr Ms email dated 
25 January 2022
I will explain first of all that we are only able to consider the complaint which the company 
initially raised with NatWest. The complaint I am being asked to consider  and which the 
bank addressed in its final response letter  is that Mr M thought the loan was over a 15-year 
term with a follow-on rate at the end of the first three years, and that its unfair of NatWest to 
charge an administrative fee to renew the facility when he believed this was discretionary.
I cant see that a complaint has been raised with NatWest about what Mr M says is a 
misleading promise made to him by his former relationship manager that lending of 
£400,000 would be possible, or that hed be able to approve a loan of £377,000 plus a 
further £115,000. Mr M believes the relationship manager acted beyond his authority in 
making promises of future lending in order to secure the companys business with NatWest. 
However, this will need to be raised with NatWest as a fresh complaint, as I cant see that 
the bank has been asked to address this in the companys original complaint, or has issued 
a final response on this. Because the bank hasnt had the opportunity to respond to this 
issue I wont comment any further on it.
I will also clarify that where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I have to base my 
decision on what I think is likely to have happened, based on the actual evidence. In this 
regard, Mr M has provided us with what he says is a transcript of a call between him and 
his (now retired) relationship manager at NatWest. My understanding of a transcript is that it 
transcribes from an audio source (such as a call recording) the actual words spoken by the 
parties, and is a written record of what was actually said. 
On enquiry from the investigator, Mr M has confirmed that what he has provided is not a 
transcript of a call recording, but is a reconstruction of what he says was a conversation 
between him and the bank at the time the company took out the loan. Given that there is no 
call recording to corroborate what the transcript says, its evidential value is limited and I am 
unable to rely on its accuracy, particularly as the evidence that is available does not support 
what the transcript says.Ive looked at NatWests records and I can see that the loan was set up as a fixed rate 
business loan with a repayment profile of 180 months, with the initial fixed rate over a 
36-month term. A fee of 1.5% of the £250,000 loan amount was charged, being £3,750.00.
The loan agreement, signed by Mr M on 21 April 2017 on behalf of the company, says at the 
top in block capitals and bold lettering:
THIS AGREEMENT AND THE BANKS FIXED RATE LOAN TERMS TOGETHER 
FORM AN IMPORTANT CONTACT. YOU SHOULD TAKE LEGAL ADVICE 
BEFORE SIGNING.
The agreement shows that the final repayment date is 36 months from the date the loan is 
drawn. The loan was drawn down on 27 April 2017, and so was repayable in full on 27 April 
2020.
Mr M signed a customer declaration on behalf of the company which I have set out below.
Im satisfied this is clear, unambiguous, and not misleading. There is nothing in the banks 
records to suggest that Mr M was ever told that the company wouldnt have to pay a fee to 
re-finance the facility, or for valuations. The documents say that fees are at the banks 
discretion, and so it is open to NatWest to exercise its discretion and apply a fee if it wishes 
to do so. 
Nor is there anything in the documentation to suggest that the loan would revert to a 
follow-on rate at the end of the three-year fixed rate period. In fact, the customer declaration 
says exactly the opposite of what Mr M claims had been agreed with his relationship 
manager. 
So in this regard, I am not persuaded by the transcript Mr M sent us in which he claims the 
following was said: [quoting exactly,  including all grammar, punctuation and syntax as 
provided to us] 
Mr M: Ive just received the loan forms and am confused and concerned.
NW:What is the issue
Mr M:I thought we had agreed a 15 year term with the first 3 years on a fixed rate, 
yet this agreement and declaration talks about the initial 36 months.
NW:It is 15 years, that is just how we set up a fix rate loan
Mr M:But is indicates the loan has to repaid at the end of the period or unless the 
bank agrees to refinance, we are not wanting to repay the loan after 3 years
NW: Dont worry you wont have to, that is there to allow the bank end a 
relationship should the loan become non performing where you in arrears or default 
on the loan. We have already agreed to a 15 year term.
Mr M: But the declaration also talks about having to have the properties revalued, 
and having to pay a fee. We dont want to be paying to revalue to properties or pay 
another administration fee as this increases costs
NW:Again you will not be expected to. We only ask for properties to be revalued 
if the property market has crashed and we need to get revalue to ensure risk or 
opposite to that if the property values have increased significantly and you wish to 
borrow more you will be asked to obtain revaluations. If you are just continuing with 
the loan for the remained of the term and then this is not expected or necessary
Mr M: And the fee
NW:Again this is charged if you want to negotiate a new fixed rate loan or you 
want to borrow more, if you are just moving to variable rate at the time you no 
charge.
Mr M:OK, I understand now thanks for clarifying Ill get the forms over to [name] for 
signing and return them once Ive signed too [sic]
If I accept that this is an accurate record of a conversation Mr M allegedly had with NatWest, 
then it follows that Mr M did, in fact, agree that a valuation fee would be paid if he 
re-negotiated the facility at the end of the fixed term. And as Ive already found, there was 
never any follow-on rate and nothing in the banks documentation suggests Mr M was ever 
told there was. I am also not persuaded that the relationship manager would have told Mr M 
there was a follow-on rate when, on any reading of the documentation, there was no mention 
of it anywhere. Im afraid this transcript does not stand up to scrutiny when compared with 
the contemporaneous evidence.
Because it was a commercial loan, this was unregulated lending and so there was no 
obligation on the bank to give the company any advice. NatWest was required to provide the 
company with clear information about the terms of any agreement the company was entering 
into. Im satisfied that the bank did so here. It was up to Mr M, on behalf of the company, to 
exercise his own due diligence and take advice from professional advisers, such as the 
companys solicitor or accountant, before entering into the loan agreement. 
Indeed, the loan agreement makes it clear that the company should take legal advice before 
committing to the contract. There is no suggestion from the evidence that Mr M was 
pressurised into signing the documentation by NatWest, or that he wasnt given the 
opportunity to take advice before completion.
In all the circumstances, although Ive taken note of what Mr M has said, Im unable to find, 
after considering all the evidence, that the bank has done anything wrong.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M on behalf of 
the company to accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman