DRN-3297665
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) lent irresponsibly when 
it increased the limit on his credit card.
What happened
Mr P had been a customer of Barclaycard for many years. But itd increased his credit card 
limit until it was now over £12000. Mr P said that was about a third of his annual income. 
And he was struggling to even repay the interest he was being charged each month. 
Mr P said he hadnt asked for any of the credit increases. He wanted to pay off or greatly 
reduce the debt. And hes worked extra hours and taken out short term loans to try and 
reduce the financial impact on his family. Mr P said his income had reduced because of the 
Covid pandemic. And he feels the extra lending was irresponsible. So Mr P wants a refund 
of the interest charged to his card since the card limit went over £3000. And he wants a 
more reasonable interest rate moving forwards.
Barclaycard said the last three increases in Mr Ps credit card limit had taken place in 2017 
and 2018. On each occasion Mr P had been given 30 days-notice to opt out of the offer if he 
wished. And the two earlier increases in 2015 and 2016 appeared to have been requested 
by Mr P. Barclaycard said Mr P had asked it to stop any more increases to his credit card 
limit in the future. And itd provided one months grace on interest on the account as a 
gesture of goodwill. But Barclaycard said it hadnt made any errors when increasing Mr Ps 
limit.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with Barclaycards response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She explained our service could only look at events thatd 
happened in the last six years. So shed looked at the six credit limit increases from April 
2015 until July 2018. And she said all of the increases had been made by Barclaycard rather 
than at the request of Mr P. 
After looking at the information collected by Barclaycard each time it increased Mr Ps credit 
limit, our investigator felt the checks itd carried out were proportionate. The increases were 
considered affordable and Mr P had a low chance of defaulting. She accepted that Mr P said 
he was struggling financially but there was no sign of that at the time of each increase. Mr P 
had no defaults and wasnt over indebted. And Mr P hadnt discussed his financial situation 
with Barclaycard to make it aware of any problems.
Overall our investigator couldnt say the credit limit increases were irresponsible. And she 
wouldnt be asking Barclaycard to take any further action.
Mr P didnt agree with our investigator. At the time of the 2018 increase he had around 
£20000 in additional debt through another credit card and loan. And the credit limit was 
increased to around 35% of his salary. Although he was making payments above the 
minimum he was in persistent debt. And he didnt think Barclaycard had made sufficient 
affordability checks. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the impact the outstanding credit card balance is having on Mr P. But 
while I sympathise with Mr P and the financial difficulties hes experiencing Im afraid I agree 
with our investigator that Barclaycard hasnt done anything wrong here.
From looking at Barclaycards records it appears that the credit limit increases applied to 
Mr Ps account were all initiated by the lender after carrying out credit checks to determine if 
the account could be included in its campaigns. So the first thing I need to decide is whether 
I think Barclaycard carried out reasonable and proportionate checks. Section 5 of the 
Consumer Credit (CONC) sourcebook shows Barclaycards assessment shouldve been 
dependent on, and proportionate to, a number of factors. This includes the amount and cost 
of the credit and the consumers borrowing history. 
Its not our role to tell Barclaycard how to run its business. But Id expect it to complete 
proportionate checks to ensure the borrowing was sustainable. So Ive looked at the 
affordability data Barclaycard has supplied. And Ive not seen anything to suggest each 
increase was unaffordable. 
Mr P appeared to be managing his account well. The probability of default rating is low on 
each occasion. And Im not aware of any adverse data on Mr Ps credit rating. He was 
making his monthly payments for his credit cards and loan. So any checks with the credit 
reference agencies wouldnt have indicated any problems with repayments or debt. And its 
to his credit that Mr P has continued to make monthly payments towards his balance despite 
his changing circumstances.
When Barclaycard increased the credit card limit it gave Mr P 30 days-notice and he had the 
option to decline the increase. But Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr P contacted 
Barclaycard about the changes or to say he was in difficulty.
Ive looked at the account history. And I can see there were periods where Mr P was able to 
greatly reduce the outstanding balance. At other times, especially from late 2017 and 2018 
when the last two limit increases occurred, Mr P has utilised most of the available balance. 
The card history shows Mr P was actively using his credit card each month. But most of the 
time he wasnt using all of the available credit. And he wasnt exceeding his limit or missing 
any payments. 
Mr P says he feels like hes trapped in persistent debt. And I do sympathise with the 
difficulties hes faced. But persistent debt would be where hed paid more in interest and 
charges than hed paid off his account balance over a period of 18 months. And Ive not 
seen anything to suggest Mr P could be considered to be in persistent debt at the time of 
each increase.
I do understand how upsetting this has been for Mr P. And I can appreciate how the 
gradually increasing account balance has placed an additional burden on his monthly 
outgoings. 
I can see our investigator has provided information about other agencies who may be able to 
offer Mr P some advice moving forwards. And if Mr P contacts Barclaycard Id expect it to 
follow the banking code and consider any case of financial difficulty sympathetically and 
positively.But based on what Ive seen I cant say Barclaycard lent irresponsibility to Mr P when it 
increased his credit card limits between 2015 and 2018. And I wont be asking it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman