DRN-3301341
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her fee-paying 
Additions and Additions Plus packaged accounts in April 2003 and August 2006 
respectively. 
Barclays later withdrew the Additions Plus account and transferred Mrs Ws account to a fee-
free account that included Tech and Travel Packs that Mrs W could opt out of, if she no 
longer needed the benefits that they provided. Mrs W said that these packs were also mis-
sold.
So Mrs W says that the two packaged accounts, and the Packs, were mis-sold because she 
was led to believe that she had to have them if she wanted an overdraft.
What happened
Barclays upheld Mrs Ws complaint about the sale of the Additions account, and refunded 
Mrs Ws Additions account fees. But it didnt think that the Additions Plus or the Packs were 
mis-sold.
One of our adjudicators assessed Mrs Ws complaint about the sale of the Additions Plus 
account and the two Packs, and she ultimately thought that the Additions Plus had been mis-
sold, but thought that the Packs had not been.
Following the adjudicators assessment, Mrs W withdrew her complaint about the Packs that 
were added to her account. In relation to the Additions Plus account, Barclays did not agree 
that it had been mis-sold. So the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
As Barclays has already upheld the complaint about the sale of the Additions account, and 
as Mrs W has withdrawn her complaint about the Packs that were later added to her 
account, this decision will only address the sale of the Additions Plus account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I think 
that the complaint should be upheld. I will explain why.
Mrs W has explained that when the Additions account was sold to her, she was given the 
impression that she had to have it to get an overdraft. I note that Barclays upheld this aspect 
of Mrs Ws complaint. And when the Additions Plus account was sold to Mrs W in 2006, she 
says that she was still of the impression that she needed a fee-paying packaged account to 
have an overdraft. And Ive not seen anything to suggest that she was made aware by 2006, 
that she did not in fact need any type of fee-paying account to have an overdraft. So I cant 
reasonably say that Mrs W was given a fair choice, or at the very least, was able to make an 
informed choice, when she agreed to the Additions Plus account.
However, I am mindful here that if Mrs W thought she had to have a fee-paying account to 
have an overdraft, this does not explain why she agreed to a more expensive account in 
2006. Afterall, if she thought she had to have a fee-paying account of some sort to have an 
overdraft, then she couldve declined the offer to upgrade again and chosen to keep her 
existing Additions account instead. Nevertheless, despite this, I still need to be satisfied that 
Barclays did not act unfairly or unreasonably in selling Mrs W the Additions Plus account.
In this case, Barclays has told us that it sold the Additions Plus account to Mrs W over the 
phone, and therefore says that the account was sold on an advised basis. This is significant, 
because it means that Barclays was obliged to assess Mrs Ws insurance needs, and then 
recommend a product that was suitable for her circumstances - or not recommend a product, 
if the ones it offered at the time didnt meet her needs.
On the 11 August 2006, the Additions Plus account cost £13 per month and provided 
worldwide family travel insurance, breakdown cover, home emergency cover, accidental 
death cover and extended warranty cover. It also included non-insurance benefits such as 
an interest free overdraft facility of up to £250 and lower interest rates (compared to what a 
fee-free account would charge) on balances overdrawn by more than that amount  up to 
Mrs Ws agreed limit.
The main difference between Mrs Ws existing account (which Barclays has already 
accepted was mis-sold) and the Additions Plus account, was that the Additions Plus account 
included worldwide family travel insurance. 
Mrs W has told us that she didnt particularly want the travel insurance provided by the 
account  or for that matter any of the other insurance benefits it provided. Mrs W has said 
that the only thing she really wanted on her account was an arranged overdraft. And I cant 
see that Mrs W ever made a claim, or even enquired about any of the benefits provided by 
the account in all the years she held it  which in my view does support what she says.
Mrs W has also told us that she suffered from a number of chronic mental health conditions, 
that first occurred prior to 2006 and which she was still suffering from at the time. Mrs W has 
said that she was not made aware that she needed to declare pre-existing medical 
conditions either. 
Im mindful that Mrs W has said that she doesnt recall the sale, and so I accept its possible 
that she was told that she needed to declare her medical conditions, and has since forgotten 
about that. However, unfortunately Barclays has been unable to show what was discussed 
during the sale. And I think its likely that Mrs W wouldve contacted the travel insurer about 
her conditions, if she was told she needed to and if she wanted to rely on the travel 
insurance provided by her Additions Plus account.
As such, in the circumstances, I dont think Barclays recommendation that Mrs W upgrade 
her account to the Additions Plus account was a reasonable one. Based on everything that I 
have seen, Im not persuaded that Mrs W had a particular need for the insurance benefits it 
provided. 
But even if Mrs W did have a need for travel insurance, I dont think that the travel cover 
provided by the Additions Plus account was particularly suitable for her specific 
circumstances - especially as the travel insurance terms and conditions from the time 
specifically excluded cancellation, medical expenses and abandonment claims:
- for anxiety or depression diagnosed before the start date of the insurance and/or date of 
booking any holiday. 
Therefore, had things gone as they shouldve, I think its more likely that Mrs W wouldve 
instead opted for a fee-free account instead.
Putting things right
To put matters right, I require Barclays to:
Refund all Additions Plus packaged account fees Mrs W was charged between August 2006 and January 2017; and
Pay interest on those fees at a rate of 8% simple per year, calculated from the date 
each fee was applied to the account, to the date of settlement, less deductible tax.
If Mrs W saved money in overdraft interest as a result of having the Additions Plus account - 
compared to what she wouldve paid if shed had a fee-free account instead - Barclays may 
deduct the savings Mrs W received from the total amount of redress due. But if Barclays 
does this, it must explain to Mrs W how it worked out the savings  in a way that is easy for 
Mrs W to understand.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I think the Additions Plus account was mis-sold. So I 
think that Barclays Bank UK PLC should do what Ive set out above, to put matters right in 
relation to the sale of the Additions Plus account, in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman