DRN-4158437
The complaint
Miss Y complains that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) changed the terms 
of her Tech Pack insurance without notification, leaving her with a claim thats not covered.
What happened
In early 2022, Miss Y took out Tech Pack insurance which covered up to four mobile phones 
and gadgets defined as laptops, tablets, eReaders, wireless headphones/ear buds, and 
portable gaming systems. She specified a laptop, phone, and iPad on the policy. 
Around October 2022, Miss Y made a claim for her laptop which had a cracked screen. But 
AIG declined it on the basis that the Tech Pack no longer provided cover for laptops. 
Miss Y made a complaint on the basis she hadnt been informed of the change of cover, so 
hadnt had the opportunity to find alternative cover for her laptop. But when AIG maintained 
its position, she brought her complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Shed been provided with a copy of the letter 
from AIG to Miss Y in June 2022 notifying her of the policy changes, so she didnt think AIG 
had done anything wrong. And as the insurance is a standard premium regardless of the 
number of devices insured, she didnt think Miss Y was due a refund of any premiums paid. 
Miss Y didnt agree. She says she receives many junk letters and communication that get 
lost in the process or not opened at all. And that as she had a laptop specified on her policy, 
AIG shouldve done more to let her know she was no longer covered and to send out a new 
contract.
The complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that the Tech Pack covered laptops when Miss Y took out the insurance. 
But during the life of the policy, AIG had decided it no longer wanted to insure certain 
devices. This is commercial decision that it is entitled to make, provided that it has taken 
steps to let its customers know about the changes. 
AIG has provided us with a copy of its letter to Miss Y dated 28 June 2022, which is 
addressed correctly. It has the following heading:
Were making changes to your Tech Pack
This is in a clear font, which is a larger size and different colour to the rest of the letter, which 
Im persuaded would stand out. The letter goes on to say, whats changing and lists several 
bullet points  one of which says:
Laptops, including MacBooks, are no longer covered
On the second and final page, the letter says:
Your right to cancel
If youre unhappy with these changes, you can cancel your cover at any time without 
any cancellation fees, even if youre still in your minimum term  just remember to put 
alternative cover in place if you still need it.
I appreciate Miss Y says she didnt see this letter. But I can only uphold her complaint if Im 
satisfied AIG has done something wrong or unfair. 
Im persuaded AIG took reasonable steps to notify Miss Y of the changes to the policy cover 
and gave her the option to cancel if the policy no longer met her needs. And I cant fairly hold 
it responsible for a letter being lost in the post or unopened by the recipient.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman