DRN-3239675
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the repairs carried out as part of her claim on her car insurance with 
One Insurance Limited.
Throughout this complaint Mrs W has been represented by her husband. However for ease 
of reading all references to Mrs W include the actions of her husband.
What happened
Mrs W had car insurance with One Insurance. In February 2021 she made a claim on the 
policy following an accident. Her car required repairs and she asked One Insurance if she 
could use her preferred garage to carry these out. One Insurance agreed.
When Mrs W went to collect her car from the garage, she noticed an additional dent on the 
car. And she was unhappy with the repair that had been done. She raised this with the 
garage but they didnt agree to further repairs so she complained to One Insurance. 
One Insurance responded to say that it wouldnt be able to get involved in any problems with 
the repair, as these hadnt been carried out by its preferred garage so it couldnt guarantee 
the standard of the repair. 
Mrs W didnt think this was fair as she said this wasnt explained to her when she arranged 
for the repair to be carried out at her chosen garage. She also said One Insurance had failed 
to call her back when it had said it would. She brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator said as the repairs had been carried out by Mrs Ws chosen garage, this 
meant it wasnt acting as an agent of One Insurance, so it wasnt responsible for the repairs. 
She said we therefore couldnt consider this as part of the complaint. 
However she thought One Insurance should have made it clear that it couldnt guarantee the 
repairs if they were done at Mrs Ws chosen garage. She looked into this part of the 
complaint, but didnt recommend it was upheld. She said One Insurance had provided 
details of the call where it agreed to the repairs and she was satisfied that it most likely did 
tell Mrs W that it couldnt guarantee them. So she thought it had done enough.
Mrs W didnt agree. She said One Insurance had failed to provide a copy of the call 
recording, so didnt think it was fair for our investigator to base her opinion on what was said 
in the call when she hadnt been able to listen to it. She also said she hadnt received a 
promised call back and this hadnt been considered. She asked for her complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W is unhappy with the repairs carried out to her vehicle, however as these were carried 
out by a repairer that was chosen by her, they werent acting as an agent of One Insurance. 
And therefore it isnt responsible for their actions, so I wont consider the repair as part of this 
decision.
However I would expect One Insurance to make this clear to Mrs W, so she could make an 
informed decision about whether to use her own repairer. So Ive considered whether it did. 
One Insurance agreed the repairs on a phone call with Mrs W. Unfortunately it hasnt been 
able to provide a copy of the call recording. However it has provided notes its agent made 
when taking the call. 
These notes state that the agent read the own garage script. One Insurance has provided 
the text of the script which includes the following: we are unable to guarantee the standard 
of the service you receive from your chosen garage.
I understand Mrs W disputes the content of the call. When facts are disputed, this service 
has to consider what is most likely to have happened, based on the evidence. While it would 
have been preferable to listen to the call, as this hasnt been possible I have to base my 
decision on the evidence that is available. 
As the agent noted that they had read the garage script to Mrs W at the time of the call, I 
think its most likely that this was read to her. And, as the script included notification that the 
repairs wouldnt be guaranteed, Im satisfied it did enough to make it clear that the repairs 
wouldnt be One Insurances responsibility. And therefore Mrs W was informed of this when 
she made the decision. So I dont think One Insurance has done anything wrong and wont 
ask it to do anything more.
I note Mrs W has also complained about a call back not being received. However as this was 
in relation to the complaint she raised, this isnt something this service has the jurisdiction to 
consider, as complaint handling isnt an activity thats regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. So I havent commented on this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman