DRN-4281927
The complaint
Mr A complains about British Gas Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim he made under his 
home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
In mid-2022 Mr A raised a complaint with British Gas about a delay in fixing an issue with his 
home electrics. He said hed been waiting for a cable to be fitted and hadnt been updated. 
Following this, British Gas arranged for some work to be carried out. British Gas said this 
was upgrade work and invoiced Mr A over £1,000. Mr A disputed owing British Gas money. 
He said the work that was carried out was for repair and maintenance that was covered 
under his policy.
British Gas apologised for postponing and cancelling appointments in early 2021. It said it 
had visited Mr A nine times to fix electrical issues and had quoted for rewiring his kitchen. 
The work had been completed and the invoice for this remained outstanding. It said it was 
sorry there was a delay in contacting Mr A to arrange for work to be completed after the 
engineer quoted for this in July 2021. It offered Mr A £150 to compensate him for poor 
service.
Mr A remained unhappy and asked our service to consider his complaint. Our investigator 
didnt think our service could look into Mr As concerns about the kitchen rewire as this 
wasnt covered by his policy. He thought British Gass offer of £150 was enough to 
compensate Mr A for the inconvenience he was caused by engineer appointments made 
under his home emergency policy being rearranged and cancelled.
Mr A disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said a complete rewiring wasnt carried 
out on his kitchen. He said he didnt sign any agreement to this effect and British Gas hadnt 
been able to provide evidence to show he had. So, his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
This service doesnt have the power to consider every complaint referred to it. The regulator 
 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  has set out what complaints this service can and 
cant look at. These are set out in the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP rules) which can be 
found online in the FCAs handbook.
DISP 2.3.1 says:
The Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to 
an act or omission by a firm in carrying out one or more of the following activities:
(1) regulated activities
()
or any ancillary activities, including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with 
them.
Here the relevant regulated activity is carrying out contracts of insurance. So, I can 
consider the matters Mr As complained about if they relate to this activity or are ancillary to 
it.  
Upgrade work
British Gas says the work that was completed in August 2022 was upgrade work that wasnt 
covered under the terms of the policy. Mr A thinks it should be covered. He says no upgrade 
work was carried out, only repairs and maintenance.
The policy terms and conditions say: All repairs to the mains electrical system and wiring on 
your property are covered, as is a replacement of parts that we cant repair.
In the general exclusions section of the policy it says: Your product only includes repairing 
or replacing your boiler, appliance or system when it stops working properly  it doesnt 
include any improvements or upgrades
Upgrades is defined as improvements that make your boiler, appliance or system safer, or 
more efficient.
The engineers notes from a visit in July 2021 say: Customer wants faulty socket 
reconnected. Poorly wired kitchen will need rewire to comply. A few days later, another 
engineer has noted: substandard wiring as per previous engineer / short circuit cables...
The engineers notes from the visit in early August 2022 says: Quote produced for kitchen 
rewire. And a few weeks later theres a note which says: 2 new circuit wired in for kitchen, 
all sockets working now.
British Gas has also provided a screenshot of the job Mr A was billed for which says: new 
ring mains for kitchen wired from consumer unit to sockets in kitchen.
Based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that the work British Gas carried out in August 
2022 was covered under Mr As insurance policy. British Gas appears to have wired two new 
circuits from Mr As consumer unit to his kitchen. The notes suggest this was necessary 
because the existing wiring was substandard. According to the engineers notes and British 
Gass records a quote was produced for Mr A which was initially rejected and later accepted 
before the job was completed. So, I think the work British Gas carried out was likely to have 
been an upgrade to Mr As electrics rather than a simple repair or replacement of parts.
As I dont think the upgrade work was carried out as part of Mr As insurance contract, I dont 
consider it to fall under the regulated activity of carrying out contracts of insurance. Nor do I 
consider it to fall under any other regulated activity noted in the DISP rules or an activity 
ancillary to something regulated. This means Im unable to consider Mr As concerns about not agreeing to the work being 
carried out, or British Gas neglecting to get back in contact with him for around a year after 
identifying that upgrade work was necessary.
Missed and cancelled appointments
I can consider Mr As concerns about missed and cancelled appointments in early 2021 as 
they appear to relate to a claim made under his insurance policy. 
British Gas says an appointment was booked for January 2021. But it was rescheduled in 
January and February and cancelled in March, before the engineer attended a couple of 
weeks later. It says this was because it was not able to secure relevant parts.
British Gas has apologised for not keeping Mr A informed and has offered him £150. I think 
this fairly recognises the frustration and inconvenience Mr A was caused by this poor 
service. So, I dont require British Gas to pay Mr A compensation above the amount its 
already offered. 
I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Mr A. His main concern appears to relate to 
the upgrade work hes been invoiced for that he disputes agreeing to. But unfortunately, this 
isnt something our service has the power to look into.
Putting things right
British Gas should pay Mr A the £150 it offered him in response to his complaint. 
My final decision
British Gas Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay Mr A £150 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited should pay Mr A £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman