DRN-3076465
The complaint
Ms A complains about the quality of a car she acquired under a hire purchase agreement
with BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services (Alphera).
  
What happened
In June 2019, Ms A entered into a hire purchase agreement with Alphera to acquire a used 
car which was first registered in UK in January 2016, and at the time had travelled around 
68,400 miles. The total cash price of the car was £38,750. The total charge for credit was 
around £8,830, so the total amount payable was approximately £47,580. Ms A provided an 
advance payment of around £15,000, and the monthly repayments were around £300 over a 
47-month period, followed by a final payment of around £18,530. The maximum annual 
mileage was set at 8,000 miles.
Towards the end of July 2019, Ms A started to experience technical faults with the car, and 
she contacted Alphera towards the end of August 2019 to complain. At this time the 
supplying dealership offered to settle the finance agreement and give Ms A her money back. 
But Ms A didnt want to reject the car and asked for the repairs to be carried out. So, in 
September 2019, the repairs were carried out by another dealership, but paid for by the 
supplying dealership. At that time the service department, among other things, renewed the 
right-hand deployable side step motor plus bracket. They replaced the battery and carried 
out a software update to the gateway control module. The Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) had 
exceeded its allowed soot limit, so the filter was also replaced. They replaced the key fob 
battery and the rear differential pinion seal as there was an oil leak. And they carried out an 
inspection.  
During the repairs Ms A was provided with a courtesy car. Alphera also offered Ms A refund 
of one direct debit plus £150 compensation. Shortly after this Ms A contacted Alphera to say 
that she was happy with those repairs, but that two red lights on the health check appeared; 
for brakes and tyres. She said she had another garage look at these and they told her that 
some of the tyres and her brakes needed replacing.  Alphera did not agree to pay for these 
repairs.  
In December 2020, Ms A wrote to Alphera, saying she is unhappy as the DPF gets blocked 
every 10 days which then requires the car to be driven at higher speeds for a certain amount 
of time. She says that she told the supplying dealer, when she was acquiring the car, that 
she could not pick it up as she does not drive on motorways due to fears, and because she 
lives in a city. So, she says that knowing this they should have informed her the DPF would 
frequently get blocked. She says, had she known this, she would never have acquired the 
car. Ms A says that she has to ask others to drive the car for her over a longer distance at a 
higher speed which is costing her money and it is stressful, causing her a lot of upset. In the 
correspondence to Alphera, she also says that under The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA), 
goods supplied must be fit for purpose and, as there was a problem with the car when she 
acquired it, she is asking to reject the car, and would like her deposit returned in full. 
In January 2021, Alphera wrote to Ms A. In this correspondence they said that the DPF is a 
device designed to remove diesel particulate matter or soot from the exhaust gas of a diesel 
engine. They say the filters usually remove 85% or more of the soot, and under certain 
conditions can attain soot removal efficiencies approaching 100%. However, over time the 
filter progressively comes blocked with soot and requires regeneration. The regeneration 
process occurs at higher road speeds and, they say, that cars driven exclusively at low 
speeds can require periodic trips at higher speeds to clean out the DPF. They said that, if 
the driver ignores the warning light and waits too long to initiate the regeneration of the filter, 
then the DPF filter can become blocked, which then requires specialist cleaning. In this 
correspondence they go on to say that the frequency with which the DPF requires to be 
cleaned and regenerated is entirely dependent on the driving style. They say that a passive 
driving style using poor quality fuel will require the DPF to be cleaned and regenerated more 
frequently than if the car was to be used on motorway journeys with the driver having a more 
aggressive driving style. And they concluded that correspondence by saying the supplying 
dealership was under no obligation to advise Ms A that in a diesel car a DPF will need 
regeneration at certain speeds. 
Ms A was unhappy with this, so she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Ms A disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
After reviewing the case, I issued a provisional decision on 10 September 2021. In the 
provisional decision I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
Ms A acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement, which is a regulated consumer
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. Alphera is the
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and is responsible for dealing with
complaints about their quality.
The CRA covers hire purchase agreements such as the one Ms A entered into. Under a hire 
purchase agreement, there is an implied term that the goods supplied will be of satisfactory 
quality. The CRA says that goods will be considered of satisfactory quality where they meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account the 
description of the goods, the price paid, and other relevant circumstances. I think in this case 
those relevant circumstances include, but are not limited to, the age and mileage of the car 
and the cash price. The CRA says the quality of the goods includes their general state and 
condition and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from 
minor defects, safety, and durability.
In Ms As case the car was used, with a cash price of around £38,750. It had covered
around 68,400 miles and was approximately three years old when she acquired it. So, the 
car had travelled a reasonable distance and its reasonable to expect there to be some wear to it as a result. Id have different expectations of it compared to a brand-new car. As with 
any car, there is an expectation that there will be ongoing maintenance and upkeep
costs. There are parts that will naturally wear over time and it is reasonable to expect these
to be replaced. And with used cars, its more likely parts will need to be replaced
sooner or be worn faster than with a brand-new car. So Alphera would not be responsible for
anything that was due to normal wear and tear whilst in Ms As possession. But given the 
age, mileage and price paid, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person wouldnt expect 
anything significant to be wrong shortly after it was acquired.  
Ms A acquired the car in June 2019, and shortly after started to experience technical faults 
with the car, so Ms A contacted Alphera towards the end of August 2019 to complain. At that 
time Ms A could have given the car back as the supplying dealership offered to settle the 
finance agreement and give Ms A her money back. But Ms A asked for the car to be 
repaired instead, and I understand that all the faults existing at the time including the work 
needed on the DPF, were completed during those first few months. I also understand that 
Ms A was happy with all those repairs at the time. It seems that the only thing she remains 
unhappy about is the fact that the DPF needs regeneration every 8 to 10 days. Ms A says 
that originally it was less of an issue because she had a friend who would drive the car for 
her on the motorway to allow for the regeneration to happen. But she says, once her friend 
moved out of the city, she had to rely on others to do this for her or take the car to a garage 
to have the DPF regenerated. 
I understand that the supplying dealership and Alphera believe that there is no fault with the 
car and that the issue with the DPF is caused by Ms As driving style. I agree that a DPF can 
certainly be affected by the way a car is driven, and it is well known that there is a 
responsibility on the person driving to familiarise themselves with the relevant section of the 
cars handbook, so they understand exactly what actions to take to ensure the DPF doesnt 
become blocked. Im also aware that most driving styles should be sufficient for the DPF to 
work as it is intended, but in some cases the driver may have to adjust their driving style. So, 
Ive taken into consideration Alpheras statement; that the frequency of when the DPF 
requires to be cleaned and regenerated is entirely dependent on the driving style. However, 
in this particular case Ive seen little in the way of evidence that supports the view that the 
issue with the DPF was caused by Ms As driving style. 
Ms A has told us that when she is using the car, its DPF requires cleaning between 8 and 10 
days. Alphera say that cars driven exclusively at low speeds can require periodic trips at 
higher speeds to clean out the DPF, but I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to 
consider 8 to 10 days to be periodic, especially that Ms A was only averaging less than 100 
miles a week. I cant be certain how Ms A drives the car during that short period of time in 
between requiring the DPF to be cleaned or regenerated, but I find it unlikely that Ms As 
driving style over such a short period of time, and over very limited mileage, should be 
causing the problem with the DPF to the extent that it is. I would expect the potential impact 
of someones driving style on the DPF to manifest itself over a longer period than 8 to 10 
days, and over higher mileage. Even when Ms A has come back after driving the car on a 
longer trip/journey the DPF still needed regeneration a short time after. I think a reasonable 
person would expect a car to run without having to alter their driving style every 8 to 10 days, 
by performing longer and unnecessary drives; which not only adds costs for the extra fuel 
consumption, but also requires time spent driving without a purpose, just to get the DPF to 
regenerate. 
Considering that the regeneration every 8 to 10 days, like that required for Ms As car, is not 
common in low or high performance family cars, I think a reasonable person would expect to 
be informed about this, so that they can make an informed choice about whether to make 
the purchase. And I believe Ms A when she says that she would never have acquired the car 
if she had been informed of this issue, considering she says that having the DPF regenerated causes her a lot of stress as she needs to ask others to drive the car for her, or 
pay the service department to get it regenerated. Both options, which she says not only 
cause her a lot of stress and inconvenience, but also add extra expenses for her. 
Also, I think a reasonable person would not consider a car to be of a satisfactory quality if it 
needs the DPF to be regenerated every 8 to 10 days. I think such a short period of time is 
sufficiently out of the ordinary. And, think that if this is just a characteristic of the car and not 
a fault, I would have expected such a significantly unusual/unordinary feature to be drawn to 
the attention of Ms A prior to the sale. I have not been presented with any evidence that 
would make me think that most likely the regeneration process of the DPF in question 
impacts on the cars roadworthiness, but I think most reasonable people would find it 
unordinary/unpleasant/off-putting, and many reasonable people, just like Ms A, would find it 
stressful. I think in an average car the DPF issue in question would be unacceptable, and it 
would be unacceptable in the car in question; considering the age, mileage and price paid. 
So overall, I think the issue with the DPF in question is indicative of an issue or some sort of 
a defect with the car. 
Taking the above into account, and the standards Ms A could reasonably have expected 
from this particular car considering its age, mileage and price paid, I think most likely the car 
was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of sale. Alphera had an unsuccessful attempt at 
trying to resolve this issue, so the CRA allows Ms A to reject the car. As the DPF requires 
regeneration every 8 to 10 days, I think it is unreasonable to expect Ms A to continue to drive 
the car. I think in this case, it is fair and reasonable that Ms A is allowed to exercise her right 
to reject the car, and the hire purchase agreement should be cancelled with nothing further 
to pay.  
Also, even if I did accept that the issues were due to Ms As driving style  which I dont  I 
would still uphold her complaint. I say this, because Ms A has mentioned the details of what 
was discussed with the supplying dealership when she got the car. And I know that Alphera 
says that the supplying dealership was under no obligation to tell her that the DPF will need 
regeneration at certain speeds and longer journeys. But taking the circumstances of this 
complaint, I disagree and I think they should have made her aware. I say this because Ms A 
says she specifically told the supplying dealership, when she was acquiring the car, that she 
could not pick it up as she does not drive on motorways due to fears, and because she lives 
in a city. She says she paid extra to have the car delivered to her home, and the dealership 
have confirmed that the cost for the car to be transferred from them to her home was £500. 
She says that at that time the dealership asked her if she would be willing to pick up the car 
in Liverpool as this would be a cheaper option for her, but again she says she told them that 
she couldnt do that as she is afraid of driving on the motorways. 
I understand that the dealership says that their sales executive denies that the option of 
picking up the car in Liverpool was offered to her. I did ask for the dealerships file from the 
time of the sale, but the supplying dealership says that their administration department have 
been unable to locate it. So, among other things, I have considered Ms A testimony and the 
recollection of the conversations she had at the time of sale.
I found her testimony has been consistent throughout the complaint about what has 
happened, so I believe her account of events when she says that she specifically told the 
dealership that she does not drive on motorways due to fears, and because she lives in a 
city. She also says that her attention was never drawn to the fact that the DPF will need 
regeneration at certain speeds and longer journeys. So, I find what she has said here to be 
persuasive, and I think most likely her recollections of the conversations she had with the 
supplying dealership are accurate. The CRA says goods should be fit for purpose  if before 
the contract is made the consumer makes known to the trader (expressly or by implication) 
any particular purpose for which the consumer is contracting for the goods. Im satisfied by making the supplying dealership aware that she does not drive on motorways due to fears, 
and because she lives in a city  Ms A did make them aware of a particular purpose. So, 
having considered this, Im satisfied Ms A told the supplying dealership exactly how she was 
going to use the car. And if how she used the car then led to the DPF issues, then Im 
satisfied it follows that the car wasnt fit for purpose.
Putting things right
Ms A has been able to use the car and it is fair that she pays for that use. Ive also 
considered that driving in a car where every 10 days or so there is a need to have the DPF 
regenerated is likely to have been somewhat stressful and annoying to her. So, this would 
have reduced the enjoyment Ms A would have had while driving the car. There is no exact 
mathematical method to quantify the impact on Ms A from having had to drive the car with 
this issue. But, having considered the circumstances, I think that Ms A should be entitled to a 
refund of 10% of the hire purchase monthly repayments she has made. If Ms A is in arrears 
with any payments, I think Alphera can subtract those from the settlement amount, but it 
needs to decrease each payment due by 10%. 
Alphera should also refund Ms As advance payment of £15,001, which she made at the 
outset, and any adverse information such as late, missed etc. markers, on her credit file 
should be removed. The credit file should be marked as settled in full, or something similar, 
and should not show as voluntary termination.
Alphera should also add interest to the refunded amounts from the date of each payment 
until the date of settlement. Interest should be calculated at 8% simple per year. 
I also think that this matter caused Ms A lot of distress and inconvenience when trying to 
resolve it. She had to ask others to drive the car for her, and on a few occasions, she had to 
take the car to a service department, which I think she would not have had to do if Alphera 
supplied her with a car that was of a satisfactory quality and one that was fit for purpose. So, 
I think Alphera should pay her £250 in compensation to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, I intend to uphold this complaint and direct BMW Financial 
Services(GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services to:
1. Cancel the hire purchase agreement with nothing further to pay; 
2. Collect the car at no cost to Ms A;
3. Refund the advance payment of £15,001;
4. Refund 10% of all hire purchase repayments;
5. Add 8% simple interest per year to points 3, and 4 above; from the date of
each payment to the date of settlement;
6. Pay Ms A £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused;
7. Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms As credit file in relation
to this credit agreement, and the credit file should be marked as settled in full, or
something similar and it should not show as voluntary termination.I asked both parties to provide me with any additional comments or information they would 
like me to consider by 24 September 2021.    
Ms A replied and accepted my provisional decision.
Alphera have replied disagreeing and provided further submissions. I will address these in 
my findings below.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered again my provisional findings. I also want to acknowledge that Ive 
summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to assure both parties that Ive reviewed 
everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I havent 
considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers 
allow me to do this.
Alphera, in response to my provisional decision, have questioned why I have relied to such a 
great extent on Ms As testimony regarding the car needing to have the DPF regenerated 
every 10 days or so. 
The DPF on Ms As car needed work which was completed by the dealership during the first 
few months after Ms A acquired the car. So, I think there is no question that there were 
issues with the DPF shortly after she acquired the car. Plus, I found Ms As testimony to be 
plausible and persuasive when, on many occasions, she described the DPF issues she was 
experiencing to our service. So, taking her testimony and all the circumstances into 
consideration, I think most likely the car did need the DPF to be regenerated every 10 days 
or so.  
Alphera, in response to my provisional decision, also said that any reasonable person would 
do their research on a new car prior to putting pen to paper, and they say they think that Ms 
A knew from her previous experience with cars what the DPF was, and how it needed to be 
regenerated, but is now finding it difficult to maintain, because the friends she was relying on 
to do the motorway journeys are no longer available. They also said that a motorway is not 
the only roadway Ms A could use to regenerate the DPF. They said that she could use other 
roads for elongated journeys to regenerate the DPF, and that they have provided some 
examples of the roads that were within proximity to her home.
Like I said in my provisional decision, I found Ms As testimony consistent throughout the 
complaint, so I believe when she says that she specifically told the dealership that she does 
not drive on motorways due to fears, and because she lives in a city. This is also supported 
by the fact that she had the car delivered to her. So, I think the dealership shouldve drawn 
her attention to the fact that the DPF will need regeneration at certain speeds and longer 
journeys, especially that it needed regeneration so frequently. Ms A might have known what 
the DPF was, but most likely she didnt expect that it wouldve needed regeneration every 10 
days or so, because she has told us that on her previous car it only needed regeneration 
once a year. The CRA say goods should be fit for purpose, which they subsequently define 
as: if before the contract is made the consumer makes known to the trader (expressly or by 
implication) any particular purpose for which the consumer is contracting for the goods. So, 
considering that, I think most likely the supplying dealership was aware that Ms A doesnt 
drive on motorways due to fears, and because she lives in a city, she did make them aware 
of the particular purpose for her car purchase. So they wouldve known exactly how she was going to use the car, and if how she used the car then led to the DPF issues and if these 
issues were so frequent, then Im satisfied it follows that the car wasnt fit for purpose. 
It is important to mention that in my provisional decision, before I even considered whether 
the car was fit for purpose, I concluded that I thought most likely the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality at the point of sale. And I still think that a reasonable person would not 
consider a car to be of satisfactory quality if it needs the DPF to be regenerated every 10 
days or so, regardless of what roads they need to drive on to get it regenerated. A period of 
10 days is a very short period, and if it was just a characteristic of the car and not a fault, I 
would have expected such an unusual/out-of-the-ordinary feature to be drawn to Ms As 
attention. And I think even in an average car the DPF issue in question would be 
unacceptable, and it would be unacceptable in the car in question; considering the age, 
mileage and price paid. So, overall, I still think the issue with the DPF in question is 
indicative of an issue or some sort of a defect with the car. 
Based on all of the above, including my provisional decision, I still think that most likely the 
car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of sale, and one that was not fit for purpose. 
The dealership had an unsuccessful attempt at trying to resolve this issue shortly after Ms A 
acquired the car. So, I think it is fair and reasonable that Ms A is allowed to exercise her right 
to reject it, and the hire purchase agreement should be cancelled with nothing further to pay 
as explained in my provisional decision.  
After my provisional decision, Alphera proposed the following:
- Cancel the agreement;
- Collect the car at no cost to Ms A;
- Refund the deposit plus 8% simple interest; and
- Pay Ms A £250 compensation.
But they thought that Ms A shouldnt be entitled to a refund of 10% of the hire purchase 
monthly repayments she has made. They said that Ms A has had substantial use of the car 
during her tenure. 
We presented what Alphera offered to Ms A, but she thought this was unfair. She said that 
she has barely used the car. She said she has provided a photo with the current mileage the 
car had travelled to our service. The photo shows that the car as of 20 July 2021 had 
travelled 78,998 miles. This is means that the car since June 2019, had travelled around 
10,598.
So, Ive reconsidered all the above, including the number of miles the car had travelled while 
in Ms As possession. I think that it is fair that she pays for the use of the car she had, but 
Ive also considered that driving a car that requires DPF to be regenerated every 10 days or 
so, most likely reduced the enjoyment Ms A would have had while driving it. So, I still think 
that Ms A should be entitled to a refund of 10% of the hire purchase monthly repayments 
she has made. 
I know Alphera have questioned why they should pay for the months when this complaint 
has been with our service. But the root cause of this complaint is the fact that Ms A was sold 
a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality and that is not fit for purpose. So, I dont think it is fair 
or reasonable that she losses out as a result of this.
In view of the responses to my provisional decision, I see no reason to reach a different
conclusion to what I have reached in my provisional decision as copied above.
  
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
direct BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services to take the 
following actions:
1. Cancel the hire purchase agreement with nothing further to pay; 
2. Collect the car at no cost to Ms A;
3. Refund the advance payment of £15,001;
4. Refund 10% of all hire purchase repayments;
5. Add 8% simple interest per year to points 3, and 4 above; from the date of
each payment to the date of settlement;
6. Pay Ms A £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused;
7. Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms As credit file in relation
to this credit agreement, and the credit file should be marked as settled in full, or
something similar and it should not show as voluntary termination.
If BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services considers tax 
should be deducted from the interest element of my award, it should provide Ms A with a 
certificate showing how much they have taken off so she can reclaim that amount, if she is 
eligible to do so.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman