DRN-1572720
 
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1995.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. Santander disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive considered what Santander has said, but Ive still decided to uphold Mrs M and Mr Ms 
complaint. This is because Santander recommended the policy to them, but I dont think it 
was suitable for them. I say this because Mrs M suffered from a degenerative illness which 
had already caused her to undergo treatment and take time off work. The details they have 
given about the existence of the illness are in my view persuasive. Under the terms of the 
policy, Mrs M would have had difficulty making a claim that was connected to this illness  
and I think shed have thought it quite likely that it would be a cause of her needing to be off 
sick from work for a period.
Santander says its adviser would have discussed the medical condition and warned Mrs M 
and Mr M about the limitations in the policy. However, I do not have good evidence of this; 
and given the significant restriction, I think it unlikely Mrs M and Mr M would have taken the 
PPI if this had been explained properly. 
Putting things right
Santander should put Mrs M and Mr M in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken 
out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mrs M and Mr M the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs M and Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
  HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander must give Mrs M and Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs M and Mr Ms complaint. 
I require Santander UK Plc to pay Mrs M and Mr M compensation in accordance with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman