DRN-2586390
The complaint
P, a limited company, complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) unfairly declined a 
claim it made on a commercial insurance policy, and voided the policy.
What happened
Where I refer to P within this decision, this includes its representatives, who are for the 
purposes of this matter its directors Mr T and Mr F.
P, whose main business is the sale and maintenance of motorcycles, took out a commercial 
insurance policy to cover its liabilities, premises and property through a broker, who Ill refer 
to as B. The policy arranged was underwritten by Ageas.
Following a break-in at Ps premises, a claim was made with Ageas for tools which had been 
stolen. After undertaking enquiries, Ageas declined the claim. It said that the value of tools 
kept at the premises was much higher than the value it had been given when the policy was 
incepted. 
P complained to Ageas. It said that the value of tools at the premises relied on by Ageas was 
incorrect. It also said that the value of tools insured on the policy should have been changed 
before the break-in as it had spoken to B about doing this (P has made a separate complaint 
to B about this). Ageas rejected the complaint. It was satisfied P hadnt given a fair 
representation of the value of the tools when the policy was incepted. It said if the correct 
value had been disclosed, it would have charged a higher premium and required additional 
security measures to be in place. 
P referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt think Ageas had done 
anything wrong. She thought it had fairly declined cover for the claim and voided the policy 
as P hadnt properly disclosed the value of tools. She thought Ageas actions in light of this 
had been in accordance with its rights and obligations.
P didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here is that Ageas has made its decisions to decline the claim and void the 
policy based on the declared value of portable hand tools owned by P as being £2,500. I 
know that P argues that it had asked B to increase the value of the portable hand tools to 
£25,000 before the claim, but Im satisfied that no such amendment was made with Ageas. 
Theres no evidence of Ageas ever being asked by B to increase the value of portable hand 
tools prior to the claim. The matter of whether P did ask B to make the amendment is the 
subject of a separate complaint and not a matter Ill address in this decision. Ageas were 
entitled when the claim was made to rely on the £2,500 value as being what P had 
presented as the value of the tools owned by P.
Ageas position is that, while the value of hand tools insured was £2,500, the value of all the 
tools owned by P at the time of the claim was in the region of £65,000. In support of its 
position, it relies on its loss adjusters report. The loss adjuster visited the premises and 
spoke with Mr T and Mr F. Their report said that following a discussion with Ps 
representatives we concluded that the value at risk for the time of loss should be no less 
than £65k, this included the £20k of tools stolen it was acknowledged by both 
policyholders [Mr T and Mr F] that the sum insured was grossly inadequate and should be no 
less than £65k.
P disputes the accuracy of the loss adjusters report. It says that the loss adjuster was only 
present for a few minutes and that the additional value of between £35,000 and £40,000 for 
tools which hadnt been stolen included tools which were removed from the premises at the 
end of each day. P hasnt provided any itemised list of the tools which werent stolen, their 
values and details of where they are stored.
I note as well that the value of the tools stolen from P, and which were claimed, is in excess 
of £20,000. It seems to be accepted that at the time of the loss adjusters visit, a number of 
tools remained in Ps possession and were at the premises. The value of these was 
mentioned in telephone calls between P and B as being in the region of £40,000. When 
combined with the value of the stolen items, this gives a figure of around £65,000. This 
supports, I think, that the loss adjusters figure of £65,000 was reasonable.
On the balance of the evidence available to me, I think it was reasonable for Ageas to rely 
on the loss adjusters report as reflecting that, at the time of the theft, P had portable hand 
tools with a value in the region of £65,000.
As Ive said above, Ageas provided cover on the basis of the value of Ps hand tools being 
£2,500. And it acted reasonably in concluding that the actual value of these tools at the time 
of the break-in was £65,000. As this was a commercial insurance policy and the policyholder 
is P, a business, the relevant legislation which covers this situation is the Insurance Act 
2015.
The act requires that the insured party (in this case P), make a fair presentation of the risk 
to the insurer. This means that they have to disclose either everything they know (or should 
know) that would influence an insurers decision on whether to offer cover and on what 
terms, or disclose enough information to put an insurer in notice that it needs to make further 
enquiries about potentially material circumstances.
What this means is that P had a duty to disclose an accurate value of the portable hand tools 
to Ageas. The evidence I have is that the value given to Ageas by B for these was £2500. 
And the evidence also indicates that this was the value given by P when the policy was 
taken out  Ps account is that the increased value of £25,000 was discussed with B when 
the policy was already in force, with the intention of amending the existing policy.
P gave a value to B for portable hand tools, so I think its fair to say that P would reasonably 
have known that Ageas wanted to have this information. And, as Ive already concluded, the 
value given was much lower than the actual value.
Mr T and Mr F had a extensive combined knowledge of the motorcycle industry and the tools 
used and so, I think, would have been aware of the value of the portable hand tools owned 
by the business. I conclude that P did not make a fair presentation of the risk to Ageas 
when taking out the policy.As the value wasnt accurate, I next need to consider what Ageas would have done if the 
correct value of tools had been declared. And Im satisfied that the evidence provided by 
Ageas suggests that if the value of £65,000 had been declared (the evidence suggests 
Ageas can reasonably say was the case) then its shown that the premium charged to P 
would have been higher and that additional security measures would have been required. 
So Ageas has demonstrated that it would have acted differently if P had properly disclosed 
the value of the portable hand tools. This means that Ps actions are a qualifying breach, 
as set out in the act. Its voided the policy and declined the claim.
This is what the act says the insurer can do if a failure to disclose is made deliberately or 
recklessly. So I finally need to consider whether it was reasonable for Ageas to conclude that 
Ps failure to disclose an accurate value for the tools was deliberate or reckless.
As Ive said above, Ps directors had extensive experience and knowledge of the motorcycle 
industry. The value P gave to B, which was passed on to Ageas, for the hand tools was 
£2,500. But the actual value was, even by Ps own account, at least 10 times this  with the 
potential value (according to the loss adjuster, and which Ive said Ageas can reasonably 
rely on) being more than 25 times the amount disclosed at inception.  
I havent seen a reasonable explanation from P as to why the value given when the policy 
was incepted was so much lower than the actual value of the tools held. I think Ageas acted 
reasonably when it concluded that P had given a much lower value for the tools than was 
correct, based on the experience and knowledge of those representing P, was either done 
deliberately, (presumably to secure cover with less conditions and/or a lower premium than 
would otherwise have been the case), or without taking reasonable care to ensure that they 
were providing accurate information, in other words recklessly.
As Im satisfied that Ageas fairly concluded that the qualifying breach was deliberate or 
reckless on the evidence available to it, its acted in accordance with the provisions of the 
Insurance Act 2015 when it voided the policy, declined cover for the claim and retained the 
premium. I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman