DRN-1724367
The complaint
Mr M complains about a personal loan provided to him by Loans 2 Go Limited, trading as 
Loans 2 Go, (L2G), which he says was unaffordable. The complaint is brought to this 
service on Mr Ms behalf by a family member. But for ease, I shall refer below to all actions 
being taken by Mr M.
  
What happened
L2G agreed a loan for £250 for Mr M in May 2018. The loan was repayable by 18 monthly 
payments of £56.64. The loan was repaid in July 2018 by a family member.
Mr M said that in the ten weeks prior to his loan application, he had borrowed nine short term 
or high cost credit loans from seven different lenders. He needed to borrow from one lender 
to pay another causing huge financial difficulties. These loans totalled £9,380. Mr M also 
borrowed £5,000 from another family member at this time and he was running a £1,000 
overdraft with his bank. L2G would have also seen from his credit record that he had 
recently missed payments and that his credit score was very low. Mr M said that L2G didnt 
ask him for any proof of his income and expenses or other pay day loans that he had. If it 
had asked for his bank statements, L2G would have seen how much financial difficulty he 
was in.
In its final response letter, L2G said that when Mr M applied for the loan it had conducted a 
thorough affordability assessment and considered Mr Ms declared income and expenditure 
and personal testimonies. It verified his income via an online income verification tool along 
with a review of Mr Ms credit file. It noted that Mr M declared his monthly income as £2,375 
and it verified that he received a minimum of £1,469.07 monthly. L2G said that Mr M 
declared his monthly expenditure and credit commitments to total £1,000. But, following a 
review of Mr Ms application and credit file, it calculated them to total £1,174.83. L2G then 
added a buffer of £146.91 to Mr Ms expenditure to account for any fluctuations in his 
monthly income or expenditure, even after which, his contractual loan repayment of £56.64 
would have still been affordable. L2G determined that Mr M had enough disposable income 
to afford his contractual instalments.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think L2Gs
checks were proportionate. She thought proportionate checks shouldve included obtaining a
thorough knowledge of Mr Ms financial circumstances, including verifying his
information. Looking at the evidence provided by Mr M, she could see that in the month prior 
to this loan being granted, Mr M had spent more than his income on a high frequency of 
gambling transactions. She thought that L2G would have become aware of this had it taken 
steps to verify his financial situation further. In these circumstances, she thought L2G would 
have realised that any lending would worsen Mr Ms financial situation.
L2G disagreed. It said that before approving Mr Ms loan, it asked a credit reference agency 
to verify if Mr Ms bank account received enough income over the previous six months to 
make the loan affordable. Furthermore, L2G ensured the expenditure amounts disclosed 
were reasonable. This meant any expenditure deemed below statistical guidelines was
replaced with statistical trigger figures to ensure Mr M could afford the loan should his 
expenditure rise to these figures. In this case, these checks were passed. L2G also did a 
check on Mr Ms credit report which didnt show any adverse information such as accounts
that had entered a defaulting or delinquent status within the last three years or evidence of 
any County Court Judgements, Individual Voluntary Arrangements or bankruptcy. L2G said 
that Mr M was up to date with all his active accounts and had settled quite a few loans prior 
to taking out the loan which was a clear indication that he was managing his finances well. In 
the absence of anything to suggest that Mr M was likely to struggle to repay the loan 
sustainably, it believed that it didnt need to carry out any further checks before agreeing to 
the loan and was satisfied with the level of checks it carried out.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review and resolve. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr Ms health has been affected by the pressures on his finances. 
When L2G lent to Mr M, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Its 
rules and guidance obliged L2G to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this meant that 
L2G needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower 
could afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the 
agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet these 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so L2G had to think about whether Mr M could 
sustainably repay his loan. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for L2G to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr M. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks 
- the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); - the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period);
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ms case, I have considered the 
following questions:
 - Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ms loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If 
not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
 - Did L2G make a fair lending decision? 
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ms loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
The loan was for £250. The interest rate was 205.2 % (990.1% APR). The loan was to be 
repaid by 18 monthly repayments of £56.64. Although that meant Mr Ms monthly 
repayments would be relatively modest compared to what hed said about his income and 
expenditure, he was still making a relatively lengthy and expensive commitment to L2G. If  
Mr M made each payment when it was due, hed pay £1,019.52 in total. 
As set out above, L2G gathered some information from Mr M about his income and 
expenses before it agreed the loan. It also carried out a credit check.
Ive reviewed L2Gs credit checks. I think the credit checks showed some recent indications 
that Mr Ms finances might be under pressure. The credit checks showed that Mr M had one 
credit card balance which was just £4 under the cards credit limit of £450 and his credit card 
utilisation had been 97% in the previous six months. Mr M had also borrowed a short term 
loan for £500 and a longer term loan for £2,000 on 23 March 2018, less than seven weeks 
before his loan application, and hed then repaid both five days later. Twelve days after 
repaying these two loans, Mr M had taken out another short term loan for £500 which was 
still outstanding at the time of his application. I think repaying the two loans earlier than 
planned and taking out another short term loan shortly after might have caused concerns to 
L2G. That might be the sort of behaviour that would indicate that someone was facing 
problems managing their money. In addition, I note that Mr M had borrowed £5,000 in 
February 2016 with monthly payments of £309 The credit checks showed a current balance 
of £5,000 with the payment status unknown. I think it would have been reasonable for L2G to 
have enquired further about that. Altogether, I think the results of its checks should have 
caused L2G concerns as Mr Ms finances appeared to be strained as shown especially by 
Mr Ms high credit card utilisation for the previous six months and his recent borrowing of 
high cost credit, despite his relatively large declared disposable income. 
L2G was also likely to be aware that its credit checks may not have revealed the full extent 
of Mr Ms credit commitments.
Mr M had declared an income of £2,375 as well as living costs and credit commitments 
totalling £1,000 on his application form. Mr Ms declared income and expenses left him with 
a disposable income of £1,375. I think L2G might have been concerned as to why someone 
with such a large proportion of available income (according to his declared income and 
expenses) would have needed to borrow so much expensive credit relatively recently and 
was now wanting to borrow £250 from it. I also note that L2Gs final response letter said that it verified Mr Ms income via an online 
tool which showed a monthly income of £1,469.07. L2G had also increased the total amount 
of Mr Ms living costs and credit commitments to £1,174.83 after reviewing his application 
and credit file and considering statistical information. But I dont think that a review of an 
application, credit file and statistical information was likely to provide a complete assessment 
of Mr Ms actual expenditure. 
At the least and in line with CONC 5.3.1.(4), I think it would have been reasonable and 
proportionate for L2G to have verified Mr Ms spending to gain a more thorough 
understanding of his financial position in order to satisfy itself that he could sustainably repay 
the loan. L2G didnt say it took steps to do this. So overall, I dont think that the checks that 
L2G carried out before agreeing to the loan were reasonable and proportionate.
But that in itself doesn't mean that Mr Ms complaint should succeed. Id also need to be 
persuaded that what I consider to be proportionate checks would have likely shown L2G that 
Mr M couldn't sustainably afford the loan. So, Ive looked at Mr Ms bank statements to see 
what better checks would have shown L2G.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? And did L2G make a fair 
lending decision? 
Mr M has provided bank statements from around the time he applied for the loan. Im not 
suggesting here that these are the checks that L2G should have done. But I think looking at 
these gives me the best picture of what the lender was likely to have seen had it made better 
checks. 
I note that Mr Ms monthly income on the statements was around £2,175 and around £200 
less than hed declared to L2G. But had L2G sought some verification of Mr Ms spending, I 
think L2G wouldve been in a better position to understand Mr Ms financial situation before it 
decided to lend to him. 
Ive reviewed Mr Ms spending on his bank statements. The statements show that Mr M was 
spending a substantial amount on gambling. Hed spent more than double his actual monthly 
income on gambling in both March 2018 and April 2018. Mr Ms spending on gambling was 
frequent enough throughout those months that it was more likely than not that it would 
continue in the same pattern and posed a risk to Mr M being able to repay the loan 
sustainably. In these circumstances, I dont think that L2G would have lent if it knew this, as I 
think it ought to have if it had made better checks. 
The statements also show that Mr Ms financial circumstances were strained. He was 
persistently overdrawn. Hed also borrowed short term loans and other high cost credit to 
supplement his income. These loans totalled £4,000 and £4,400 in March 2018 and        
April 2018 respectively. This suggests that Mr M was reliant on short term lending and other 
high cost credit. 
So, I think if L2G had carried out what I consider to be proportionate checks, I think its likely 
it would have discovered Mr Ms relatively substantial expenditure on gambling and the full 
extent of Mr Ms financial commitments. I think L2G should reasonably have realised that   
Mr M was over committed financially and that he was having difficulty managing his 
finances. So, its clear that further checks wouldnt have provided the assurance L2G 
needed. And I think L2G ought reasonably to have realised that it was unlikely that Mr M 
wouldve been able to sustainably repay his loan. So, it should reasonably have concluded 
that it treated Mr M unfairly when it agreed to lend to him.I note that L2G said that Mr M had enough disposable income to afford his contractual 
instalments. But it seems to me that L2G was focussing on its calculation of whether the loan 
was affordable for Mr M on a pounds and pence basis. But the lender was required to 
establish whether Mr M could sustainably make his loan repayments  not just whether the 
loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The 
loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a consumer could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their payments, it 
follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they are 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
So, I think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld, and that L2G should put things right as 
follows: 
Putting things right  what L2G needs to do
L2G should
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr M;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the loan;
* HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give     
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint I order 
Loans 2 Go Limited, trading as Loans 2 Go, to put things right as Ive set out above under 
the heading Putting things right  what L2G needs to do.
.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman