DRN-4218657
The complaint
Mr N had a motor insurance policy with Tesco Underwriting Limited. He says after he 
reported an accident, it provided poor service and didnt assess liability properly. 
What happened
Mr N told Tesco his car was stationary when he was shunted into the car in front by a car 
behind him. At the time, Tesco said he wasnt at fault for the accident. Eight months later 
Tesco told him the other two drivers had said hed driven into the car in front before the car 
to his rear collided with Mr Ns vehicle, so it was settling the claim made by the driver of the 
front car against Mr N. The driver of the rear car accepted liability for damaging Mr Ns car.
Mr N complained to Tesco that the liability decision was taken without his knowledge and 
that its lack of contact with him for eight months was poor service on its part. Tesco 
accepted that Mr N should have been informed of progress and that he didnt get a promised 
call from a manager. It apologised for these issues, but it said its decision on liability wouldnt 
have changed, given that the other drivers accounts indicated that he was at fault. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ns complaint. She thought Tesco should pay £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed faced as a result of its poor service. 
But she thought it was reasonable for Tesco to have settled the claim for the damage to the 
front car against Mr N, given the details the other two drivers had given to their insurer. 
Tesco accepted her view, but Mr N didnt. He said he hadnt been asked to complete an 
accident report form (ARF) and hadnt seen the other drivers ARFs. He also said the driver 
of the rear car had offered him £350 at the scene. In Mr Ns opinion there was no evidence 
that he was at fault. He also said Tesco had increased his premium greatly at renewal and 
he queried his no claims discount (NCD). The investigator said the last two issues would 
have to be dealt with as a new complaint. Her view on the other issues remained the same, 
and as there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our role isnt to decide who was liable for an accident, but to look at whether an insurer 
acted reasonably in making its decision. I can see from the file that Tesco considered Mr Ns 
version of events carefully, and it hasnt said his account isnt accurate. But it had to base its 
decision on the available evidence. 
Tesco had doubts about the rear collision with Mr Ns car, given that the driver of the car in 
front of his said she felt only one impact, which fits with Mr Ns version of events. But its not 
impossible for the rear car to have damaged Mr Ns car without shunting it forward, which is 
what the driver of the rear car claims. Tesco had to consider his account, bearing in mind 
that neither he nor the driver of the front car had any reason to make a false statement. It 
didnt matter to the front cars driver whether Mr Ns insurer or the rear drivers insurer paid 
her claim. And the rear driver didnt deny causing damage to Mr Ns car, so he knew hed 
have a fault claim on his record, whether or not he accepted that hed shunted Mr Ns car. 
I think Tesco acted reasonably in considering all the issues around the accident and in 
querying some of  them. For example, it asked for the engineers report on the damage to 
the rear car - but the other insurer said the driver hadnt made a claim, so there was no 
report to provide. Tescos queries and its consideration of the issues delayed the claims 
early settlement, so the insurer of the front cars driver threatened to start legal proceedings. 
Tesco then had to decide whether there was a reasonable prospect of defending Mr Ns 
position in court. I think it was reasonable for it to decide that - without any independent 
evidence - the available information (two similar versions of events, and Mr Ns conflicting 
version) meant that wasnt a viable option. But I can see why Mr N is so frustrated about the 
outcome, given that hes certain that his car was shunted into the car in front.  
Mr N thinks its significant that the driver in the rear car offered him money at the scene of 
the accident. But that offer only shows that the other driver accepted fault at the time and 
wanted to avoid an insurance claim. When the insurance process began, he still accepted 
fault for his actions. Mr N also thinks Tesco should have insisted on seeing ARFs from the 
other drivers and from him. I understand why he thinks thats a necessity in any claim, but 
insurers dont have to obtain ARFs if they dont think theyre needed. 
Mr N says hes suffered terrible stress as a result of Tescos poor service, especially given 
his age. I can see why thats the case, and I sympathise greatly with him. I think Tesco 
should have contacted him much more than it did, and it should have explained its thinking 
to him earlier, so its decision didnt come as such a shock. In my opinion, Tescos apology 
plus £150 compensation from it is sufficient to cover those poor service issues. I know Mr N 
is also upset about the liability decision, but as I dont think Tesco acted unreasonably in 
relation to that, I cant require it to pay further compensation. I think its clear that Mr Ns 
concerns about the increase in premium and his NCD notification have also caused him 
upset, but as these issues arent part of this complaint, theyll be reviewed separately.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Tesco Underwriting Limited 
to pay Mr N £150 for distress and inconvenience. Under the Financial Ombudsman Services 
rules, I must ask Mr N to accept or reject my decision before 23 October 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman