DRN-4099788
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard failed to collect a direct 
debit which led to interest being incurred on her credit card.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mrs P has a Barclaycard and has explained that she clears the balance in full each month to 
avoid paying interest. Mrs P says that when Barclaycard send her a statement each month it 
gives a minimum payment that will be collected by direct debit on the due date quoted. Mrs 
P then makes a manual payment for the remaining balance.
On 9 August 2022 Barclaycard issued a statement that said the outstanding balance was 
£16,576.13 with a minimum payment of £621.60 due to be collected on 5 September 2022. 
Mrs P deducted the minimum payment from the outstanding balance and made a manual 
payment of £15,954.53, intending to clear it in full. But Barclaycard didnt claim the direct 
debit of Mrs Ps minimum payment so an outstanding balance remained. And that meant the 
whole balance due in the 9 August 2022 became subject to interest.
Mrs P found the previous months minimum payment hadnt been collected and that she 
owed £520.99 in associated interest when she received the September 2022 monthly 
statement. Mrs P has explained she quickly contacted Barclaycard and raised a complaint 
but received no contact and no response.
Despite chasing Barclaycard in October 2022, Mrs P says she wasnt advised a final 
response had been issued for some time.
Barclaycard says it tried to call Mrs P after she complained and issued a final response on 
15 September 2022. Barclaycards final response didnt accept errors had been made. The 
final response explained Barclaycard didnt collect the minimum payment by direct debit as 
Mrs P had made a manual payment that covered the amounts due earlier in the month. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mrs Ps complaint. They werent persuaded 
Barclaycard had made errors or treated Mrs P unfairly. The investigator also explained that 
complaint handling, in its own right, isnt something the Financial Ombudsman Service is 
able to consider.
Mrs P asked to appeal and asked the investigator to clarify where Barclaycard had made the 
way it handles direct debits clear. Mrs P also said she hadnt received any contact from 
Barclaycard after she raised a complaint. As Mrs P asked to appeal, her complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycards final response said that it starts the process of collecting a direct debit four to 
five days before its due. And any payments made prior to that point would impact whether 
Barclaycard collected the direct debit. But Barclaycard has since provided evidence from its 
systems that shows the information it says Mrs P was given when setting up the original 
direct debit instruction. It says:
If you make an extra payment, your Direct Debit will go down by that amount. That means if 
you clear your balance before we request your Direct Debit (thats three working days before 
your payments due), we wont collect a Direct Debit for that month. However, if you make a 
payment within those three working days, well still take your Direct Debit and youll end up 
paying twice.
Mrs Ps payment was made on 31 August 2022, a Wednesday, and the direct debit for her 
minimum payment was due on 5 September 2022, the following Monday. The direct debit 
information quoted above says a payment Mrs P made within the three working days of the 
due date, 5 September 2022, wouldnt impact whether the direct debit would be collected or 
not. In fact, the guidance says any payments made within three working days of the due date
would mean Mrs P could be charged twice. The 31 August 2022 was a Wednesday, 1 
September 2022 was a Thursday and 2 September 2022 was a Friday. The following two 
days were not working days as they were a weekend. And the due date was Monday 5 
September 2022.
My view is that Mrs Ps 31 August 2022 payment was made within the three working day 
window before the due date that Barclaycards direct debit guidance refers to.
Mrs P made her payment three working days before the due date and Barclaycards direct 
debit guidance says in those circumstances the direct debit would still be collected. Given 
the information Barclaycard has provided, Im not persuaded it was fair for it to not collect the 
direct debit on 5 September 2022. Ultimately, Mrs P was prepared to make payments to 
clear the full balance and avoid interest. The information Ive seen so far indicates it was the 
way Barclaycard processed Mrs Ps payments that caused the interest to become payable. I 
havent been persuaded the interest incurred has been fairly charged by Barclaycard.
In my view, Barclaycard should refund the interest Mrs P was charged in her September 
2022 statement. The credit card statements on file only go up to October 2022 so I cant see 
whether further interest has been incurred on the residual balance. If it has, I intend to tell 
Barclaycard to refund any associated or connected interest that was applied to Mrs Ps credit 
card as well. In response to this provisional decision, Barclaycard should provide up to date 
credit card statements for Mrs P.
I can see Mrs P attempted to take steps to avoid being charged interest. And I can see Mrs 
P has been caused a reasonable level of trouble and upset by the way payments were 
collected in her case. Its clear Mrs P is very upset she has been charged interest despite 
making a payment that she thought would clear the outstanding balance. In reflection of this, 
I also intend to tell Barclaycard to pay Mrs P £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Mrs Ps told us she didnt receive any calls or contact from Barclaycard after she raised a 
complaint. Barclaycard has submitted systems evidence that shows it tried to call Mrs P to 
discuss her case. But I understand Mrs P has no record of these calls and that she didnt 
receive Barclaycards posted final response either. I understand why Mrs P is upset. But as 
our investigator has said, the Financial Ombudsman Service cant consider every point or complaint thats referred to us. And the rules we operate under dont allow us to consider 
issues directly relating to complaint handling in its own right. Here, the issues Mrs P has 
raised concerning how her complaint was handled standalone from the main complaint shes 
made. And that means we cant comment on the way Barclaycard dealt with Mrs Ps 
complaint.
As Ive noted above, based on the information Ive seen so far I intend to tell Barclaycard to 
refund interest applied to Mrs Ps credit card account in September 2022 and pay her £100 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I invited both parties to respond with any further comments they wanted to make before I 
made my final decision. Barclaycard confirmed it was willing to proceed in line with the 
provisional decision, although it didnt agree the direct debit information provided to Mrs P 
was unclear. Mrs P confirmed she was willing to proceed and awaited the final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information for me to consider, I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mrs Ps complaint should be 
upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Ps complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard to settle as follows: 
- Refund the credit card interest charged in September 2022
- Pay Mrs P £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman