DRN-4234567
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs N are unhappy with National House-Building Councils (NHBC) claim decision 
following ongoing leaks at their property.
What happened
Mr G and Mrs N purchased an apartment in 2018. They were the second owners of the 
apartment, and it came with a ten-year building warranty with NHBC. The building warranty 
started in 2013 so at the point Mr G and Mrs N purchased the apartment, it was in year five 
of ten.
Problems with leaks to the wintergarden were reported by the previous owners to the 
developer, who carried out repair works. In 2018 further leaks occurred, and this was 
reported to the developer and NHBC. As the leaks were a follow on to the previous leaks 
and repairs, which were originally reported to the developer within the first two years of the 
building warranty, this was considered by NHBC under section two of the building warranty.
NHBC carried out a resolution inspection and directed the builder to carry out works to the 
gutter joints by the deadline they set of 23 November 2018. 
NHBC also considered other reported areas of leaks to the wintergarden. NHBC said the 
louvres were designed to allow ventilation and not be watertight, so didnt conclude anything 
further needed to be done. They also said the window seals hadnt been reported to the 
builder in the first two years, and werent part of previous repairs, so NHBC considered them 
under section three of the policy. But, NHBC said those issues wouldnt be covered.
Mr G and Mrs N dispute the conclusions reached by NHBC. And they say that the window 
seals should be considered under section two of the warranty, as the issue has always been 
present, but the defect was hidden. As Mr G and Mrs N remained unhappy with NHBCs 
position, they approached this service. 
After approaching this service, NHBC issued a second final response taking into account 
additional separate bedroom ceiling leaks to areas which had previously been repaired by 
the developer. NHBC said Mr G and Mrs N should go back to the developer first and let 
them know if things came to a standstill. They also commented on some other points 
Mr G and Mrs N had mentioned. And NHBC offered £250 compensation for the overall 
service theyd provided. Our investigator also took this final response into account in her 
review of the case.
Our investigator ultimately upheld the complaint in part. In relation to the wintergarden, she 
said that whilst she recognised the issue with the window seals wasnt observed until 2018, 
what was important was when it was discovered and reported, not when it was present but 
undetected from. She said NHBC had acted fairly by considering this issue under section 
three of the cover, and this part of the policy didnt provide cover for the issue 
Mr G and Mrs N had reported.
The investigator also said that NHBC had concluded the louvres were designed to allow 
ventilation, and the only area NHBC had directed the builder to carry out works in the 
wintergarden previously was to the joints, not the window seals or louvres. She also 
explained that some points of the claim and complaint she wouldnt be able to consider as it 
didnt relate to a regulated activity.
In relation to the ceiling leaks in the bedrooms, she said these were originally reported by the 
first owner and repairs carried out. The repairs failed and a resolution inspection was carried 
out in 2018, in which NHBC directed the builder to carry out works. NHBC understood the 
issue was resolved in 2019.
When Mr G and Mrs N reported further leaks in 2022, the developer said theyd look into 
things so NHBC confirmed they wouldnt become involved at that stage. However, as it 
appeared the builder hadnt done anything since, our investigator recommended NHBC 
should appoint a claims investigator to carry out an inspection.
Whilst our investigator recognised Mr G and Mrs N wanted to use their own contractor to 
carry out works, she thought it was reasonable for NHBC to have the opportunity to consider 
things in the first instance and to outline their proposals. She said that if Mr G and Mrs N 
were unhappy with any proposals and settlement offer made, theyd be able to raise a new 
complaint and refer it to this service for consideration. She also said that the £250 
compensation NHBC had offered was fair and reasonable, so she didnt recommend they 
increase this.
NHBC agreed with the investigators recommendation to arrange an inspection.
Mr G and Mrs N didnt agree. They said the winter garden leaks had been accepted by the 
developer previously and it needed to be waterproof. They also said the developer had 
shown no interest in repairing the bedroom leaks, so they wanted their own external party 
involved instead of NHBC. They also said they would look to provide additional information. 
However, despite the extensions given to provide a response, and multiple chasers for any 
further information, Mr G and Mrs N didnt respond. 
As Mr G and Mrs N had already said they didnt agree with the investigator, the case was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator.
Leaks to the wintergarden were reported to the developer by the previous owner, and repairs 
were carried out. Further leaks occurred, and these were reported to the developer and 
NHBC.
As the leaks had originally been reported to the builder in the first two years of the building 
warranty cover, and repairs had been carried out, NHBC agreed to carry out a resolution 
inspection under section two of the warranty. This was completed in October 2018. In this, 
NHBC considered issues raised by the owner of Mr G and Mrs Ns apartment at that time, 
and another apartment in the building.
In relation to the leaks in Mr G and Mrs Ns apartment, NHBC determined there were leaks 
from the gutter joints. They directed the builder to carry out works to the gutter joints by a deadline of 23 November 2018. NHBC understood these works were satisfactorily 
completed. 
NHBC didnt accept all the reported issues or direct the builder to do anything else at that 
time to Mr G and Mrs Ns apartment. They said the louvres were acceptable and were open 
to the elements. 
NHBC also said the window seals hadnt been reported to the builder previously, so would 
need to be considered separately under section three of the warranty. Ill talk about this 
separately further below.
Mr G and Mrs N didnt agree with NHBCs assessment of things overall or what needed to 
be done. They provided their own report to NHBC which said there were other issues, and 
NHBC had reached the wrong conclusion on what was needed to resolve the problem, 
including the louvres and seals.
Under section two of the building warranty, which relates to damage or defects reported to 
the developer within the first two years of the policy, this is the builders liability period. This 
means the builder is responsible for fixing any reported damage or defects. If the builder fails 
to do so, or fails to engage, NHBC can provide a resolution service under the building 
warranty. This is what happened in 2018. 
There are a set of rules that say what I can and cant consider. These are known as the 
Dispute Resolution rules (DISP) and can be found in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
handbook, available on their website.
To be able to look into complaints, I need to have the power to do so. In the DISP rules, one 
of the requirements which enables this service to investigate complaints is that the activity 
complained about needs to be a regulated activity. Carrying out contracts of insurance is one 
such regulated activity. But the NHBC policy isnt just an insurance policy. This means some 
of the actions NHBC carries out arent insurance.
For a regulated activity to have happened under section two of the policy, the following 
needs to have happened:
A resolution report has been completed by NHBC
The resolution report directs the builder to do something by a deadline
The builder fails to complete the work by the deadline given
Once the above steps have been completed, and the deadline expires, NHBC can step in
and take over the claim. This is because the insurance part of the warranty provided by
NHBC starts, and this then becomes a regulated activity. Anything before this point,
including the resolution service and the content of the resolution report isnt a regulated 
activity so isnt in my jurisdiction to consider.This includes the claim handling by NHBC prior to the deadline expiring, and the content of 
the resolution report and NHBCs decision as to what was or wasnt a defect and what they 
required/didnt require the builder to do. This also means that whilst Mr G and Mrs Ns report 
disagreed with NHBCs assessment of defects during the resolution inspection, including the 
louvres, I cant consider the position or outcome NHBC reached on this, or the arguments in 
Mr G and Mrs Ns report about why NHBCs resolution assessment was wrong, because it 
isnt within my power to do so, under the rules which govern our service.
During the resolution inspection, NHBCs claim investigator also considered what 
Mr G and Mrs N had said about the window seals allowing water to enter. They said this 
hadnt been specifically raised with the developer in the first two years of cover, and it was 
now in years three to ten of the policy. So NHBC considered these under section three of the 
policy  which was the relevant section that applied at that time  when the window seals 
issue was discovered and reported. This section provides cover for damage caused by a 
defect, to specific listed areas. NHBC said the window seals werent covered under section 
three.
Mr G and Mrs N disagree with NHBCs position of considering the window seals under 
section three. They say the issue with the seals has always been present since construction, 
but remained hidden until 2018, so they werent able to report this sooner. Mr G and Mrs N 
say that not removing the adhesive tape backing when installing the panels is a defect. As 
this was hidden but always present, Mr G and Mrs N say this should be included as part of 
the developers attempt to waterproof the wintergarden, under the section two claim for 
ongoing leaks.
Ive considered what Mr G and Mrs N have said, but I dont agree. The resolution inspection 
concluded the joints to the guttering werent acceptable, and NHBC directed the developer to 
put this right. But in relation to any potential leaks as a result of the window seals, this wasnt 
part of that consideration under section two or that direction, because it wasnt reported to 
the developer within the first two years of the warranty. What is important here is when the 
damage or defect is discovered and reported, not when it was present, undetected, from. 
Mr G and Mrs N have mentioned an exclusion to claims under section three, which they say 
means it should therefore be considered under section two instead:
Anything you were aware of and could have notified to the Builder under part 1 of 
section 2, or for which you could have made a valid claim to NHBC under part 2 of 
section 2.
However, the first part of this refers to being aware of the issue but not reporting to the 
builder in the first two years. However, Mr G and Mrs N werent aware of the issue, so the 
first part doesnt apply. The second part relates to if the builder is insolvent, and thats why 
they couldnt complete works required under a resolution report, but again this isnt relevant 
here. Therefore, this exclusion isnt relevant and doesnt mean the claim should be 
considered under section two instead of three.
So, Im satisfied NHBC were correct in considering the window seal defect under section 
three of the policy as it wasnt something which had been discovered or raised in the first two 
years of the policy cover. 
Section three says NHBC will pay for the full cost, if its more than £1,200 indexed, of putting 
right any actual physical damage which is caused by a defect (as defined) to certain parts of 
the home. However, window seals arent a listed area, only the actual glazing panes 
specifically of external windows and doors are.Therefore, as window seals arent included within the listed areas which are covered, I dont 
think NHBC has acted unfairly by declining the claim on this basis. So, Im not going to direct 
NHBC to do anything further in relation to the window seals.
Damp patches to the ceiling were originally reported by the previous owner to the developer. 
Repairs were carried out, but these failed and it was again raised with the developer and 
NHBC. It was understood by NHBC that this issue was resolved by 2019 following further 
repairs.
Mr G and Mrs N copied NHBC into an email to the developer in 2022 in which they said 
further leaks had occurred through the bedroom ceilings. NHBC said that the builder 
confirmed at that point they were looking into things, so NHBC said to Mr G and Mrs N they 
wouldnt be involved any further at that stage. They explained though that if matters came to 
a standstill, to let NHBC know. I dont think NHBCs position at that point was unreasonable.
However, since that point, Mr G and Mrs N have said the builder hadnt arranged any 
appointments or investigated any further. In NHBCs final response in September 2022, they 
said they believed the issue would still fall within the builders liability period, as it related to 
previously raised issues and failed repairs. So NHBC said Mr G and Mrs N should speak to 
the builder again and if they do not receive a satisfactory response, NHBC can then consider 
whether a claims investigator should visit to carry out an inspection.
Our investigator said that given the time that has passed, they thought it would be fair for 
NHBC to review things and a claims investigator carry out an inspection now. NHBC agreed 
with this. However, instead, Mr G and Mrs N want to appoint their own contractor to 
complete works, and for NHBC to cover the cost of this.
Whilst I appreciate what Mr G and Mrs N have asked for, I agree with our investigator that it 
would be fair and reasonable for NHBC to inspect in the first instance, and to put forward 
any proposals. And as outlined by our investigator, if Mr G and Mrs N are unhappy with any 
settlement proposals that are put forward by NHBC, they may be able to refer a new 
separate complaint to this service for consideration.
However, I agree with our investigator that NHBC could have taken a more proactive 
approach when no action had been taken by the developer about the new leaks reported in 
2022 to the bedroom ceilings. NHBC offered £250 compensation as part of its final response 
(which also commented on other points raised too). And overall, I think that amount is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances, so Im not going to direct NHBC to increase this.
NHBC also noted in their final response that Mr G and Mrs N had mentioned that some 
works had been arranged by their managing agent to unconnected areas for different issues, 
and they were looking for NHBC to refund those costs under their warranty. NHBC said 
theyd originally said that as they hadnt had the opportunity to inspect, and so a claim 
couldnt be considered. But theyve since reconsidered their position and outlined that in 
order to make an accurate determination, theyll now pass this to their claims investigator to 
assess further. I think those next steps for those unrelated matters appear reasonable. If 
after that has happened, and if Mr G and Mrs N remain unhappy with the position NHBC 
ultimately reach, they may be able to refer a new separate complaint about that to this 
service.My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct National House-Building 
Council to:
Carry out an inspection of the leak and damp patch in the bedroom ceilings
Pay the £250 compensation already offered to Mr G and Mrs N (if it hasnt already 
done so)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman