DRN-3291380
The complaint
Mr C is a sole trader. He complains that Metro Bank PLC unfairly declined his application for 
a new account, which he needed in order to apply to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr C approached Metro in September 2020 with a view to obtaining a loan under the 
Bounce Back Loan Scheme. Metro required customers to hold an account with the bank 
before it would offer them a Bounce Back Loan. Mr C didnt have a Metro account, so he 
applied for a business account on 12 September.
Mr C visited a branch on 15 September. The application was declined on the basis that the 
bank needed some further information from Mr C to verify his personal details. But this 
wasnt resolved on the day and the application didnt proceed.  
Mr C visited the same branch a few days later as he was unhappy with how hed been 
treated by the adviser on the previous visit. He spoke with a manager who apologised for the 
service hed received and said that the application could proceed, subject to Mr C providing 
the outstanding information. Mr C subsequently provided Metro with the requisite documents 
and the application was progressed. But Metro declined the application on 27 October. 
Mr C complained to Metro. He was concerned that it hadnt assessed his application fairly 
and, in particular, that the interaction hed had in branch on 15 September had influenced it. 
Metro accepted that the service Mr C had received on 15 September was unacceptable and 
apologised. But it said that it had reviewed the decision to decline the account application 
and not found an error. The application hadnt met the banks credit-scoring requirements.
Mr C remained unhappy and referred the matter to us. He said that hed been treated 
differently on 15 September and was concerned that this may have been because of his 
race. He didnt think the bank had then followed its procedures correctly when considering 
his application, particularly as hed been told that hed passed a credit check in September 
but then failed it a month later  despite no changes to his credit score.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought that Metro 
should compensate Mr C for the impact of the poor service hed received in branch on 
15 September. This had required Mr C to visit the branch again to move things forward and 
delayed the application, for which she recommended Metro pay £150 compensation. But 
although she could understand Mr Cs concerns in light of the service hed received, she 
didnt think Metro had done anything wrong in how it had assessed his application. She said 
the banks records showed that it hadnt met the banks credit-scoring requirements and so 
had been declined in line with its standard criteria. And she couldnt see that Mr C had 
passed the credit check at an earlier stage.
Metro accepted our investigators recommendation, but Mr C didnt. He still didnt think Metro 
had handled his application fairly or provided a proper explanation for its decision. And he 
didnt think £150 was fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
issues in branch on 15 September. So he asked that an ombudsman review the complaint 
and it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly 
similar reasons. Ill explain why. In doing so, I wont address each and every point Mr C has 
raised  rather, Ill focus on the matters that I consider most relevant to how Ive reached my 
decision.
Looking firstly at Mr Cs account application, Ive not found that Metro did anything wrong in 
how it assessed the request or reached its decision. I say this because:
In line with common industry practice, Metro uses credit scoring when deciding 
whether to offer products or services to customers. Metro says Mr Cs application 
failed its credit score requirements  and Ive seen its records of the application that 
evidence this. These processes are largely automated and there is nothing in what 
Ive seen to suggest that Mr Cs application was treated any differently to that of any 
other customer.
Mr C believes he passed Metros credit checks in September so queries how he can 
have failed the same checks only a month later, but Metro has said that the 
application only proceeded to be credit scored in October and the evidence Ive seen 
confirms this. This would also be the logical process, in that it followed the receipt of 
documentation to confirm Mr Cs identity  meaning a credit check could then be 
carried out against the correct person. And Mr C has told us that no credit searches 
are showing on his credit file for September.
While its accepted that Mr C received a poor level of service when visiting a branch 
on 15 September, Ive not seen anything to suggest that this interaction had any 
bearing on Metros decision to decline the account application. Rather, the bank has 
demonstrated that its decision was made in line with its standard processes and 
criteria.
Although Ive noted from Mr Cs responses to our investigators view that he still 
doesnt think Metro has given a sufficient explanation for its decision, I think it has. 
When responding to Mr Cs complaint, the bank explained that the application had 
been declined after failing its credit scoring. That was further explained by our 
investigator and weve provided evidence by way of the banks internal records to 
Mr C too. That is as much as I could reasonably expect to be shared with Mr C, 
particularly as a banks eligibility criteria and account-opening processes are subject 
to some legitimate confidentiality.
Ive also noted that in response to our investigators view, Mr C said that on checking his 
credit report he had found a second credit search had been conducted in November. But 
hes declined to provide us a copy of his credit file, so Ive not been able to verify this or 
investigate any further. I dont think it would lead me to a different conclusion, in that I cant 
see a second credit search wouldve had any bearing on the banks decision to decline the 
account application. If Mr C is concerned about the information that Metro has recorded on 
his credit file, he may wish to raise a separate complaint about that with the bank.Turning to the service Mr C received during the application, Metro has accepted that things 
didnt go as they should have done when he visited a branch on 15 September. Mr C told us 
that the adviser spoke to him rudely and dealt with him abruptly  ultimately ushering him out 
of the branch  when he queried why his application couldnt proceed. Ive no reason to 
doubt Mr Cs recollections. I can see how this incident wouldve been upsetting, when I 
expect he had legitimate queries about his application and to which he didnt get satisfactory 
answers. At that time, all that was needed to proceed was some documentation from Mr C to 
confirm his identity  which he later provided. This ought reasonably to have been something 
that couldve been resolved there and then, and I think it was most likely down to a fault on 
the banks part that it was not. So Mr C was also caused some inconvenience in having to 
revisit the branch on a separate occasion to restart the application. 
I understand Mr C thinks Metro ought to have done more to investigate this aspect of his 
complaint and to reprimand the staff member involved. But I can see that the bank 
conducted an investigation, which included speaking to staff  and while this didnt include 
the adviser in question, this wasnt possible as they no longer worked for Metro by the time 
Mr C raised his complaint. I can see that it also provided feedback to the branch in question. 
I dont think theres anything more I could reasonably require of it in this respect.
Ive considered what Mr C has told us about how he believes he was treated differently and 
his concerns that this may have been because of his race. Im sorry to see that Mr C was left 
feeling this way after what happened. And I can understand why this interaction and some 
subsequent comments from bank staff gave him cause to question how his application was 
handled and the basis on which it was declined. But while I cant speak with any certainty as 
to the reasons for the advisers behaviour, Ive not found that Metro handled Mr Cs 
application any differently because of his race or declined it for any other reason than the 
credit scoring as set out above.
So taking all of the above into account, I think that £150 is fair compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience Mr C was caused by the way Metro handled things on his visit to the 
branch on 15 September. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Metro Bank PLC to pay 
Mr C £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman