DRN-3909761
The complaint
Ms M has complained Santander UK plc wont refund money from transactions she didnt 
make.
What happened
In March 2022 Ms M got a call from a number she didnt recognise. She also received a text 
from Santander. She called the bank and discovered thered been eight transactions carried 
out over three days which she didnt recognise. She told Santander she wasnt responsible 
for these and they confirmed shed be refunded.
After investigation Santander didnt feel they could isolate any point of compromise for 
Ms Ms mobile device. Their evidence showed the payments had been made using the 
device Ms M held.
Ms M brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence and found Santanders IP address and device ID 
data convincing. He told Ms M that he couldnt ask Santander to do anything further.
Still unhappy, Ms M has asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Ms Ms complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but 
nothing else specific in Ms Ms case.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Santander and Ms M have told us.
Overall I believe the evidence shows Ms M authorised the disputed transactions. I say this 
because:
The IP address related to these transactions matches an IP address used when 
Ms M has accessed her mobile banking app previously (as well as after the disputed 
transactions). 
The device used to make the eight disputed transactions is the same as the one 
used before and after the disputed transactions.
Santanders evidence shows a passcode was entered to verify the transactions. 
Ms M denies ever being sent a one-time passcode but the evidence of her account 
use doesnt match Santanders.
Its unlikely that an unknown third party carried out these transactions as there was a 
time gap between the initial £10 payment on 11 March and the remaining seven 
transactions totalling £7,420 made over the next two to three days. An unknown 
fraudster would be wanting to move funds as quickly as possible to ensure what was 
happening would remain undiscovered.
Im aware theres a discrepancy between what Ms M has told us and the audit trail evidence 
provided by Santander. Ms M has provided me with no convincing reason  apart from her 
denials  why I should believe her evidence as opposed to what Santanders shows.
I appreciate there are some unexplained aspects to this case. Ms M only updated her phone 
number details with Santander the day the disputed transactions started. The money was all 
paid to an account with a third party supposedly in Ms Ms name. This does bear similarity to 
a scam where someone has encouraged Ms M to make these payments. Ms M has denied 
this is what happened.
I would point out to Santander that just because there is no obvious point of compromise is 
not a reason alone to reject a fraud claim. That isnt the test under the PSRs. The issue is 
whether Ms M either authorised or allowed the transactions to be made. A way of deciding 
what happened is to consider what devices, IP addresses were used at the same time. 
I appreciate Ms M is distressed at Santander initially telling her she would be refunded and 
then not getting her money back. The requirement is for banks to refund promptly. However 
banks are allowed to carry out investigations into what happened and in Ms Ms case, 
Santander believed they had grounds to turn down her claim.
Overall I dont think it would be fair and reasonable  based on the evidence Ive seen  to 
ask Santander to refund Ms M.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Ms Ms complaint against 
Santander UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman