DRN-2737425
The complaint
Mr S complained that LCC Trans-Sending Limited, trading as Small World Financial 
Services (SW) failed to action an urgent money transfer for him, then didnt give him his 
money back promptly so he could send it using a different service.
What happened
Mr S said he needed to make an urgent overseas money transfer of around €350 . But he 
said that SW didnt action this for him. It wouldnt accept what he said was valid ID, although 
he told us hed used the service successfully twice before, without providing ID. Mr S said 
that although SWs app said it would accept a driving licence, it wouldnt accept his EU 
licence, and it wouldnt accept his passport just because it had expired. 
Mr S also said that SW wouldnt give him his money back quickly, so that he could just 
transfer the money using a different service. 
Mr S said this had badly affected the person he was sending the money to. And it had also 
seriously damaged his own business reputation in the country he was sending the money to. 
He wanted SW to pay him €10,000. 
SW said that Mr S hadnt provided valid ID. It had discussed this with him over the phone, 
then confirmed the situation in an email. His passport had expired, and he didnt send 
alternative ID that it would accept. So SW said his transaction was cancelled the same day, 
2 July 2020, and his refund was processed for him. It was paid into his bank on 6 July 2020.
SW also said that its terms clearly state that it wont accept any responsibility for losses 
through using its service, which includes losses if a payment isnt made.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said we couldnt take 
account of the impact that this problem had on the person Mr S was trying to pay, because 
she wasnt SWs customer, only Mr S was. 
Our investigator said Mr S didnt appear to have provided SW with the required ID, as set out 
in the terms of the account. He said SW had confirmed Mr S hadnt successfully sent money 
with SW before. Hed only tried once, back in 2017, and that transfer wasnt successful. 
Our investigator thought SW had told Mr S why this latest transfer failed, and it had 
explained the problems with his ID. Our investigator said that SW had then refunded the 
money that Mr S had paid, and it had done so within the timescales set out in its terms. 
Our investigator didnt think SW had been unfair. 
Mr S was adamant that hed proved his identity to SW. And he thought that meant it had to 
send the money for him, and follow through on the contract it had made with him. He said 
the consequences of this failed payment had got worse since, and he wanted our service to 
change its mind.
Our investigator said SW was acting in line with its terms and conditions. And Mr S hadnt 
complied with those. Our investigator thought that the drivers licence Mr S sent was from a 
country outside of the European Union, and he said that SW didnt have to accept that.
Mr S wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
SW has shown us that Mr S hadnt used it to send money before. So I think its reasonable 
for SW to ask Mr S for ID, the first time he used the service. And I think the key issue for me 
to consider here is whether the ID Mr S offered SW should have been accepted by SW.
SWs terms and conditions clearly set out the ID it will accept. Those are - Passport, UK 
Driving License or EEA ID. 
Mr S has told us he offered SW an expired passport, but he says this is still valid for travel 
for some years, and it is still accepted as ID. I dont think its unreasonable for SW to say that 
a passport has to be valid for it to be accepted as ID. 
Mr S also said he had a drivers licence from a European Union country, and he sent this to 
SW. Ive seen the picture he sent SW, so I accept it is an EU licence. And I can also see that 
SWs app says Mr S can upload a full driving licence as ID. But I think its reasonable for 
SW to set out what identity documents it will accept. And I havent been able to find any 
terms that say SW will accept a driving licence from the country which issued Mr Ss licence. 
So it does appear that Mr S didnt offer SW any of the other items of ID it would accept. 
I think that this transfer failed because Mr S didnt offer SW the identity documents that its 
terms say it will accept. And without that ID, it wouldnt make this transfer for him. 
SW then sent back the money. I think it acted promptly to return the money to Mr S, and he 
received the refund in a reasonable period of time. 
I dont think that SW has acted unfairly or unreasonably. I also note that SW has drawn our 
services attention to the terms of the contract it enters into, which state that it wont accept 
any responsibility for problems caused by using its service, including if transfers fail. 
I know that Mr S wanted SW to make up for what went wrong when this payment wasnt 
received, but I dont think that what went wrong was something I can hold SW responsible 
for in this case. So I dont think that SW has to do that. I know Mr S will be disappointed, but 
I dont think this complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman