DRN-3485366
The complaint
Mr O complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent him money on a high cost loan which he was
unable to afford to repay. He also says that the rate of interest was excessively high.
What happened
On 17 June 2020 Loans 2 Go provided Mr O with a loan of £1,000 repayable at a monthly
rate of around £229 for a period of 18 months. He struggled to repay the loan, missing
payments almost immediately. Then in 2021 he suffered a drop in income, and was allowed
a payment holiday of three months by Loans 2 Go. He later complained that the loan was
unaffordable for him and he felt the interest rate was extortionate. Loans 2 Go offered to
reduce the outstanding interest by 50% then by 60%. However Mr O declined both offers.
Mr O has supplied his bank statements for the three months leading up to and including the
loan payment.
Loans 2 Go says that it assessed Mr Os outgoings and credit commitments at £789.50 a
month against the £151 declared by him. It calculated his minimum monthly income at
around £1,178. Allowing a buffer of 10% for emergencies it still determined that he was able
to afford the loan repayment from his disposable income. It has supplied copies of the loan
documents, the credit report, its file notes, and the list of his outgoings supplied on his
application.
Our adjudicator considered Mr Os bank statements and whether Loans 2 Go wouldve
done anything differently had it seen this information before lending to him. But based on this
information, she didnt think Loans 2 Go couldve concluded that Mr O wouldnt have been
able to sustainably repay the loan.
Mr O disagreed, pointing out that he was a single parent with three children and he had little
income left at the end of each month with which to pay the loan instalments.
I issued a provisional decision. I didnt think that Loans 2 Go should have assessed the loan 
as being sustainable, so it didnt make a fair lending decision.
Mr O accepted my provisional findings. Loans 2 Go said that it had no additional points to 
make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I made the following provisional findings:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this
complaint are:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr O 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr O would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Os ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that it had to ensure that
making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr O undue difficulty or significant
adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any
other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr O.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more
thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
The repayments for this loan represented a substantial commitment for Mr O considering his
assessed monthly income. So I think that Loans 2 Go shouldve carried a thorough
assessment of Mr Os circumstances.
Ive also noted Mr Os current financial position. Im sorry that his financial circumstances 
seem to have got worse since taking out the loan, but I should advise him that Loans 2 Go 
could only consider his position at the time of applying for the loan.
According to his application Mr O declared his monthly income to be around £1,600 and 
his outgoings £151, with no credit commitments. Loans 2 Go carried out verification 
checks and assessed his income to be a minimum of £1,100 a month. It also assessed his outgoings, including credit commitments at £789.50. With a 10% buffer for emergencies 
this would mean a disposable income of around £309 with which to pay the loan payment 
of £229.
I think this would have been only just affordable, but I have to consider whether Loans 2 Go 
could have done more to assess Mr Os circumstances. The only information its given to 
us concerning its checks outside of his application is the credit report. The first thing to note 
from that report is that Mr O had three loans and a credit card that were in default. There 
had been no action on these accounts for some time (according to the report) but they still 
had active balances ion them, and Ive noted three of them were with a debt collector. So 
whilst Loans 2 Go rightly didnt accept Mr Os list of his outgoings at face value, I think it 
should have carried out further checks. This could have meant for example looking at his 
bank statements for the months leading up to the application.
I have considered Mr Os bank statements. Ive firstly noted a payment of £140 a month to a 
firm of debt collectors/bailiffs. Added to his other loan payments totalling £117 a month this 
would bring his credit commitments alone (before Loans 2 Gos loan) to £357. With the loan 
instalment of £228 added this would mean credit commitments of nearly 50% of his income 
which I think in this case is too high, especially bearing in mind his disposable income.
Theres no indication that the loan was to be used for debt consolidation, and Loans 2 Go 
didnt seek to pay off any of Mr Os debts before releasing the loan monies to him. Even 
discounting the debt collector payment his commitments would still have been high, at 
about 30% of his income.
Looking at his monthly outgoings, I note a monthly payment of half of bills to 
(presumably) Mr Os partner of £480. He also had payments for fuel and car maintenance 
and groceries which means that even Loans 2 Gos assessment of his outgoings was 
modest.
I think that Loans 2 Gos checks were proportionate and that those checks should have 
alerted it to carry out a more thorough assessment of Mr Os circumstances. With or 
without this further assessment I think the payments for the new loan should have been 
assessed as being unsustainable. So I dont think that Loans 2 Go made a fair lending 
decision.
As regards the rate of interest on the loan, this was high even for a high interest loan. 
However as a loan that was to be repaid over more than twelve months theres no cap on 
the rate of interest that can be charged. Ive noted that the loan documents set out the 
rate of interest and the monthly repayments and t sign the documents
electronically before the loan could proceed.
As neither party has any further comments to make my provisional findings are now final 
and form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
Mr O has had the capital sum for the loan and its fair that he repays this. So I will require 
Loans 2 Go to do the following:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan.
Treat any payments made by Mr O as payments towards the capital amount of £1,000.If Mr O has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to him with 8%* 
simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Loans 2 Go should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr O.
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr Os credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to deduct tax from this interest. It should give
Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Loans 2 Go Limited to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman