DRN-3453496
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard closed his credit card 
and recorded a default on his credit file after he applied for a payment holiday. 
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr P has told us he sent Barclaycard a letter in December 2018 to notify it his address had 
changed. Mr P says he had a redirection arrangement in place for a year after that date.
Barclaycard says it has no record of Mr P changing his address at this time.
During 2019 there were missed payments on Mr Ps credit card. Barclaycard says it called 
Mr Ps mobile number on multiple occasions and sent text messages concerning the 
arrears. In November 2019 Barclaycard says someone answered Mr Ps phone and told 
them to stop using the number to try and contact him. The arrears were cleared around this 
time.
From January 2020 onwards no payments were made. On 14 March 2020 Mr P agreed to 
make a payment of £350 within two weeks but nothing was received.
Mr P has explained he applied for a payment holiday with Barclaycard in April 2020 and 
received a text message to say it was being considered. Mr P says he assumed the payment 
holiday had been approved and made no further payments.
In June 2020 Barclaycard sent a default notice to the address on file. On 30 July 2020 Mr 
Ps account was closed and a default was reported by Barclaycard on his credit file.
On 25 September 2020 Mr P contacted Barclaycard after finding the default on his credit file. 
Mr P updated his address and added his phone number to its systems. The systems 
information shows the phone number is the same as previously recorded by Barclaycard.
Mr P complained but Barclaycard didnt agree it had acted unfairly by closing his credit card 
and recording a default. Barclaycard said there was no record of a payment holiday 
application from Mr P. Barclaycard also said that Mr P wouldnt have qualified for the
payment holiday even if it had received an application from him.
Mr P referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They upheld 
Mr Ps complaint and asked Barclaycard to remove the default from Mr Ps credit file and 
pay him £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Barclaycard didnt accept, so Mr 
Ps complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but Ive reached a different view to the investigator concerning 
how to fairly resolve his complaint. Based on the information Ive seen so far, I havent been 
persuaded that Barclaycard treated him unfairly. Ill explain why.
There are several parts to Mr Ps complaint and Im going to start by talking about his 
address history. Mr P says he wrote to Barclaycard in December 2018 to update his 
address. Barclaycard has no record of Mr Ps letter or any request to amend his address 
until he complained in September 2020. As a result, Barclaycard continued to send 
statements and account correspondence to Mr Ps old address.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but I havent been persuaded that Barclaycard acted unfairly 
by continuing to write to him at the address it had on file. Ive looked at Barclaycards 
website and it says an address can be changed online or by calling. Theres no option to 
send a letter with the new address. In addition, whilst I understand Mr P had a redirection 
arrangement in place for 12 months, Barclaycards letters would still have included his old 
address. So on receipt of statements that were redirected, it wouldve been reasonably 
clear Mr Ps address remained unchanged.
In addition, theres some debate about whether Barclaycard was using the correct 
telephone number to contact Mr P. Our investigator thought Barclaycard had used the 
wrong number for Mr P, who has never changed his details. Barclaycards contact notes 
show its always used the same number to contact Mr P, but stopped after a phone call in 
November 2019. Ive read the contact notes and can see that Barclaycard was asked to 
remove the number from its systems in November 2019 after it tried to speak with Mr P 
about arrears on the credit card. The phone number was then added again in September 
2020 when Mr P complained. Ive checked the number Barclaycard has used to contact Mr 
P and Im satisfied it matches the one he gave us in his complaint submission.
The Financial Conduct Authority issued its Payment Deferral Guidance in April 2020. The 
guidance set out measures businesses could adopt, including offering payment holidays, 
where consumers were impacted by Covid. The guidance says its not suitable for every 
consumer, especially where theres evidence of pre existing financial difficulties.
In Mr Ps case, there were missed payments in 2019. I can see they were made up but the 
account fell into arrears again in January 2020. By the time the Payment Deferral Guidance 
was introduced, Mr P had missed several payments. I think Barclaycards view that Mr Ps 
circumstances meant a payment holiday wouldve been unsuitable is reasonable.
Mr P says he thought Barclaycard had approved his payment holiday application after it 
sent him a text message. But the text message Mr P has sent us says the application was 
being processed, not that it was approved. Barclaycard says it has no record of receiving a 
payment holiday application from Mr P. And Ive seen no evidence to show it ever told Mr P
a payment holiday had been approved.
Ultimately, no payments were made to Mr Ps account from January 2020 until the credit 
card was closed and defaulted in July 2020. Whilst I understand Mr P didnt receive the 
follow up correspondence thats because they were sent to his previous address. Im 
satisfied Barclaycards decision to close Mr Ps credit card and record a default on his credit 
file was fair in the circumstances of his complaint. As a result, Im not telling Barclaycard to
amend Mr Ps credit file or pay compensation.
I invited both parties to respond with any new information they wanted me to consider before 
I reached my final decision. But no new points have been raised by Mr P or Barclays. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information that changes my mind about how to fairly 
resolve this complaint Im going to proceed in line with my provisional decision. I remain of 
the view that Barclaycard treated Mr P fairly, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman