DRN-3226585
The complaint
Mr I brings a complaint on behalf of a limited company Ill call G. He is its sole director. G lost 
money as a result of a scam, when fraudsters contacted Mr I and impersonated HMRC. Mr I 
sent money from Gs account held with Starling Bank Limited and it has declined to refund 
those losses.  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision for this complaint on 6 December 2021. And so the 
background is well established and well understood by all parties. With that in mind I wont 
restate all of the detail here.
I said in my provisional decision, in summary, that Starling ought to have refunded G 50% of 
its losses under the provisions of the CRM Code. That was because I didnt believe Starling 
met the standards for firms set out in the Code when it came to providing G with effective 
warnings at the time the scam payments were being made.
I acknowledged that G ought to bear some responsibility for the loss as well. That was on 
the basis that Mr I  acting on Gs behalf  didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the 
payments were for legitimate purposes.
I also explained that Starling ought to have been doing more to question the payments once 
they became unusual, taking into consideration the type of account and the normal activity 
on it. And so I said that Starling should add interest at 8% simple to the scam refund 
calculated from: 
the date of the claim was declined under the Code for the first five payments
the date of loss for the remaining payments.  
Starling responded to say it didnt accept my findings. It said, in summary:
it believed the warnings it gave to be effective as per the Code;
it didnt believe the payments were made with a reasonable basis for belief and felt 
Gs representatives ought to have done more to check the legitimacy of the 
payments and the purpose for them.
It did, however, confirm that it would settle the complaint as per my provisional findings.
G didnt respond to the provisional decision by the deadline given and weve received no 
other contact. So Im proceeding to issue my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the additional points made by Starling and I dont find they change the 
outcome I set out in my provisional decision. And as G hasnt responded I see no reason to 
depart from my overall findings. 
Starling has agreed to the settlement I previously set out. Im proceeding to issue this final 
decision to confirm my findings on the complaint and also so that G can choose to accept 
the outcome or reject it. 
Starling has maintained that its warnings were effective and that it discussed these with the 
LSB before putting them in place. I dont know what conversations Starling may or may not 
have had with the LSB on this point. Theres no evidence thats been provided to persuade 
me of any significant approval. And it remains the case that Im satisfied the warning 
presented to G was not effective when considered against the key criteria set out in the 
Code.
Starling appears to be relying on additional information that was available to G outside of the 
warning it gave. That information was accessible via a link given within the warning. But 
there was no requirement to click the link in order to make the payments. And so Mr I never 
so the more detailed warning and it cant be said to have been presented to him. 
The warning that was presented to Mr G was so generic and lacking in impact and specificity 
that I can understand how customers would simply move past it. When people are making 
payments as a result of a scam they often have no idea that is the case. Or else why would 
they proceed? That is why it is important that customers are presented with effective 
warnings, meeting the standards set out in the Code.
Starling has also made further comments that relate to reasonable basis for belief and 
carrying out due diligence. Im not going to comment any further here as Ive already 
explained in my provisional decision that I dont think the payments were made with a 
reasonable basis for believing they were legitimate.
Im satisfied therefore that, under the CRM Code, Starling and G ought to share 
responsibility for the loss. And Starling ought to have refunded G on that basis when the 
scam claim was raised. It is then fair and reasonably that it compensates G to that extent 
now.    
Putting things right
Starling Bank should now:
compensate G 50% of its loss (£4,220); 
pay interest at 8% simple per year, from the date Starling declined the claim under 
the Code to the date of settlement, on the compensation for payments before 
payment number six;
pay interest at 8% simple per year, from the date of loss to the date of settlement, on 
the compensation for payment six and beyond.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Starling Bank Limited.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman