DRN-3119351
The complaint
Ms T has complained about her car insurer Aviva Insurance Company Limited as she feels it 
handled her claim made following an accident poorly, causing delays.
What happened
Ms T had an accident on 15 February 2021. Aviva agreed to deal with the matter as a 
non-fault claim and for Ms T to use a repairer of her choosing. On 18 February 2021 Ms T 
emailed Aviva setting out her terms of an amicable settlement  which amounted to her 
receiving the replacement value of her car or its full repair cost at a garage of her choice, 
plus all her personal losses. When Aviva explained in reply what it needed to progress the 
claim, Ms T said she would be taking Aviva to court. 
In a final response, dated 3 March 2021 and issued in response to Ms Ts complaint, Aviva 
explained it had agreed for her to choose a repairer, and that it was currently waiting for an 
estimate from it in order to review the costs. Aviva also explained that Ms Ts personal 
losses were dealt with under her legal expenses cover, by solicitors which it had appointed 
for her. Aviva further explained that it had arranged contact with a car hire company  but, 
under the policy, it wasnt responsible for providing a courtesy car (as she had chosen to use 
her preferred repairer rather than one of Avivas approved repairers). 
Ms T complained to us as she felt Aviva hadnt treated her fairly. Amongst her other 
concerns Ms T said she was unhappy that Aviva had passed her details to solicitors without 
her permission and that the solicitors hadnt acted in her best interests.
Our investigator felt Aviva had done all it was responsible for under the policy. And that it 
had done so in a reasonably timely manner. So he didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms T said she disagreed. She said a lot of personal losses had been ignored by the 
solicitors, as had her request for an amicable settlement. Ms T said the other drivers insurer 
was not contacted and she was not responded to in a timely manner. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, with regret for any further upset my decision causes Ms T, I dont intend to 
uphold her complaint. I understand Ms T feels very aggrieved about what has happened, but 
having reviewed everything I dont think Aviva has done anything wrong. And, with respect, 
I think Ms T may be labouring under a misunderstanding about Avivas role; what it must do 
for her and when, in the event of a claim.
Aviva, in handling any claim, must treat each customer in line with the policy terms in place 
and fairly and reasonably. What that means in practice will differ depending on the 
circumstances relevant to each claim.
Here Ms T made a claim for damage to her car caused during an accident. Ms Ts policy 
says that, in the event of damage like this Aviva will replace the car or have it repaired, or 
pay for it to be repaired at a garage of the policyholders choosing. But in the event of the 
latter option being chosen; an extra excess may apply and a courtesy car wont be provided. 
The policy, under the legal protection cover, also explains that Aviva will appoint a solicitor to 
act for the policyholder in the event of a claim and pay the solicitors costs incurred.
I see that when Ms T said she wanted to use her own garage, Aviva advised her what it 
needed to progress the claim in that way. I also see that Ms Ts garage did call Aviva, and 
Aviva told it that it needed to send in an estimate. At the time Aviva issued its final response 
letter to Ms T the estimate was still outstanding. There was no basis, at that time for Aviva to 
look at settling based on the market value for Ms Ts car, because her car was repairable. 
And it couldnt reasonably look to make a settlement based on the cost for repair because it 
simply didnt know what that was. 
I know Ms T, within three days of the accident, expected Aviva to put what she saw as an 
amicable settlement option to the other driver. However, an insurer like Aviva is directly 
liable to Ms T for her car replacement or repair costs following an accident. The policy isnt 
designed for it to seek the original settlement for the repair costs (and Ms Ts losses) from 
the other drivers insurer. So the claim for Ms Ts car was for Aviva to settle  and Im 
satisfied it was acting to try and do that for Ms T. And the claim for Ms Ts losses was 
something that Aviva needed to appoint solicitors to progress on Ms Ts behalf. Which it did. 
That was part of it acting reasonably to progress her claim. Ms Ts policy explains that Aviva 
will do that, and thats an action she agreed for Aviva to make in these circumstances when 
she took out the policy; so Aviva didnt need to seek further authorisation from Ms T before 
doing so. 
I understand from what Ms T said when she complained to us at the end of March 2021, and 
from what she told us when speaking to our investigator during the course of the complaint, 
that shes unhappy with how her claim has progressed following the appointment of the 
solicitors. However, I can only look at what happened to the point of Avivas final response 
letter which was issued on 3 March 2021. As I said above, at that time, in the two-week 
period since the accident, Aviva had been trying to progress Ms Ts claim, but it had reached 
a point where it couldnt reasonably do anything more without the key further detail from 
Ms Ts garage. I dont think Aviva did anything wrong in the way it handled and sought to 
progress Ms Ts claim.
I see that, in the meantime, Aviva confirmed to Ms T that it was viewing this as a non-fault 
accident. It said she wouldnt be charged any excess and her no claims bonus wouldnt be 
affected. Whilst I know it was a worry for Ms T to initially learn that an extra excess might be 
applied because she was using a garage of her choosing, the policy does allow for that. In 
any event, I think this concern was reasonably overcome when Aviva confirmed no excess 
would be applied.
Further, as Ms T wanted to use her own garage  the option of having a courtesy car 
provided wasnt open to her. I note that Ms T hadnt paid extra to have the option of a hire 
car on her policy. But Aviva did put Ms T in contact with a hire company to see if a car could 
be arranged for her (presumably as the accident was being dealt with as a fault claim 
against the other driver). I cant reasonably have expected it to do more than this.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Aviva Insurance Company 
Limited.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman