DRN-2285119
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) cancelled a pre-booked 
appointment for an annual service at his property, under his home emergency insurance 
policy. He is also concerned with the level of customer service he received in respect of this.
What happened
Mr D contacted British Gas in January 2020, in order to book an appointment for the annual 
service he is entitled to receive, as part of his home emergency insurance policy. The 
appointed was booked for early March 2020.
The day before the appointment was due to go ahead Mr D received a phone call from 
British Gas, to let him know it wasnt going to be able to attend the appointment the next day. 
Mr S said British Gas told him there were no engineers in the area to attend that day. And, 
when he asked to re-book the appointment during the call, the adviser said they couldnt re-
book the appointment at that time. Mr S said the reason given to him was because of a 
shortage of engineers, and that priority was being given to services for vulnerable 
customers.
As Mr D was unhappy with this, he raised a complaint about British Gas handling of the 
matter. British Gas responded and apologised for the inconvenience that had been caused. 
It also said it couldnt re-book the appointment at the time of its response, because it had 
postponed annual services whilst it worked through the COVID-19 crisis. British Gas said it 
would be able to offer these appointments again, once the situation had lifted.
Mr D didnt feel this explanation was reasonable. He said that the government hadnt put 
restrictions in place, in respect of the coronavirus pandemic until later in March 2020. So, 
when he attempted to re-book the appointment, this couldnt have been a factor in British 
Gas decision not to make another arrangement to attend his property and complete the 
service.
Because Mr D remained dissatisfied, he referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said that 
Mr Ds policy explained that British Gas was able to cancel an appointment due to high 
demand, and that an annual service may in fact be carried out, outside of a 12-month period. 
Our investigator noted that prior to 2020 British Gas had contacted Mr D a number of times 
to attempt to arrange an appointment and had been unsuccessful. And it was unfortunate 
that the need to re-schedule the visit on this occasion coincided with concerns surrounding 
the coronavirus.
Mr D didnt agree. He said that he wasnt satisfied with the reasons British Gas gave him for 
not being able to carry out the appointment as scheduled in March 2020. Or with its 
reasoning around why it couldnt re-schedule the visit when it cancelled the first one. 
Mr D agreed he had been contacted by British Gas in 2019 to arrange the annual service. 
But noted these times hadnt been convenient, and he had needed to cancel an appointment 
for the service in the previous May a day or two before it was due to happen. Mr D 
highlighted he got back to British Gas in January 2020 to book the appointment  and was 
unhappy it was relying on the terms and conditions of his policy, as he felt the situation could 
have been avoided.
 
As Mr D disagreed, his complaint has been provided to me, to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. So, I dont require British Gas to 
do anything further in relation to this complaint. Ive explained why below.
Ive considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ds policy. I understand Mr D is concerned 
about British Gas falling back on its policy terms in this case. But I do also need to consider 
these. This is because the policy terms detail what was agreed between Mr D and British 
Gas when the policy was purchased. And, to see whether British Gas has acted reasonably, 
I need to decide whether British Gas acted in line with what was agreed in relation to annual 
service appointments.
In relation to annual service appointments, the terms of Mr Ds policy explain that;
In periods of local or national high demand for our services (such as cold weather), we 
prioritise breakdowns and may need to re-arrange your annual service.
It also highlights that an annual service may be more than 12 months after the last service 
visit carried out.
Neither party disputes that British Gas explained it had to cancel the appointment because of 
high demand at the point the annual service was due to go ahead in March 2020. And as 
above, the policy does make it clear this may happen. So, Im satisfied British Gas acted 
reasonably, and in line with its policy terms, in cancelling the appointment made in March 
2020 given that reason. 
I understand Mr D is concerned with British Gas explanation that high demand was the 
reason it couldnt attend and doesnt feel British Gas gave him enough satisfactory 
information on this. But I think contacting him and letting him know the reason it couldnt 
attend or re-book at that point  as there were no engineers in the area, and it was 
prioritising vulnerable customers  was enough to let Mr D know the situation. I wouldnt 
expect it to be provided further detailed explanation here.
I havent seen anything within the information provided to me which suggests the reason for 
it cancelling the March 2020 appointment, or for its inability to re-book at that point was 
inaccurate. So, Im satisfied British Gas acted fairly here. 
  
British Gas did later explain it wasnt able to re-book appointments as a result of the 
coronavirus pandemic. And said it had made this decision before the government detailed 
the lockdown restrictions later in March 2020. I dont think it matters when British Gas made 
this decision in this case  it doesnt alter the outcome of this complaint. At the point British 
Gas provided its final response letter to this complaint, the government had announced the 
restrictions. And British Gas was acting in light of these at that time.British Gas had reached out to Mr D on a number of occasions before, to attempt to book the 
annual service in, before 2020. And it explained that Mr D would be able to re-book the 
cancelled appointment when the coronavirus restrictions were lifted. So, I think British Gas 
was still able to provide the service Mr D had paid for  just at a later date. Which given what 
the policy says, and the restrictions not to enter other households at the time, I consider to 
be fair and reasonable in this case.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman