DRN-3868086
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) unfairly reduced her overdraft facility 
without notice and failed to send any communications suggesting a reasonable payment 
plan. She wants Santander to write off debt that was left outstanding on the account. 
What happened
Mrs W had an account with Santander with a £2,000 overdraft facility. Following a review 
Santander wrote to Mrs W on 20 July 2020 notifying her as per the terms and conditions of 
the account that it was reducing her overdraft limit to £500 on 1 September 2020.
Mrs W contacted Santander about this on 7 September. Santanders notes record that Mrs 
W refused to complete a budget planner and wouldnt set up an arrangement to pay back 
the outstanding overdraft debt as she felt the reduction of her overdraft was unfair and raised 
a complaint. 
Mrs W was advised that the decision to reduce her overdraft was based on affordability and 
of the consequences of not paying the back the debt on her credit file. Santander provided 
Mrs W with the details of a debt advice organisation and its collections number if she 
changed her mind.
Following the phone call Santander wrote to Mrs W on 17 September and no less than a 
further 10 times about the outstanding overdraft debt. The letters confirmed the outstanding 
balance and the consequences of not paying it, as well as inviting Mrs W to call and set up 
an arrangement to repay the outstanding amount.  But as a plan wasnt agreed a default 
notice was issued on 13 February 2021 giving Mrs W 14 days to settle the account.
Mrs W brought her complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators looks at her complaint 
but didnt think Santander had done anything wrong as no errors had been made on its part. 
They thought that Santander couldnt ignore unsustainable debt and that the terms and 
conditions allowed Santander to reduce the overdraft limit and Mrs W had been given the 
correct notice.
Mrs W disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not uphold Mrs Ws complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mrs W has experienced and see if Santander has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mrs W back in the position she 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
The crux of Mrs Ws complaint relates to the reduction of her overdraft facility by Santander. 
So the question I have to ask is whether Santander did anything wrong in reducing Mrs Ws 
overdraft facility. 
Im in agreement with our adjudicator here, in that I dont think that Santander acted unfairly 
when it removed Mrs Ws overdraft facility. Santander does have a duty to ensure any 
lending continues to be affordable and to take appropriate action when it deems that the 
lending is no longer sustainable.
And having reviewed Mrs Ws bank statements in the lead up to the reduction in her 
overdraft limit I can see that the monthly incoming credits into the account were around a 
sixth of her overdraft limit. So I dont think on review Santander acted unreasonably when it 
decided to reduce Mrs Ws overdraft limit to something more affordable given the credits 
coming in. 
Furthermore, as has already been explained by our adjudicator the terms and conditions of 
the account say Santander can change an arranged overdraft limit at any time and that 
although it will usually provide 30 days notice it may do so without advance notice where it 
would be reasonable to do so.
I can see Santander wrote to Mrs W on 20 July 2020 giving her around six weeks notice of 
the reduction of her overdraft limit. Mrs W says that she never received this letter. But Ive 
seen a copy of all the letters Santander sent and can see that they are correctly addressed 
and it is the same address Mrs W has listed with us. I havent been given any reason why 
Mrs W might not have received the overdraft reduction letter, indeed most post is delivered 
correctly, so I cant say Santander did anything wrong here or made a mistake. 
And even if she didnt receive this letter, I can see Mrs W understood her overdraft limit had 
been reduced and that she needed to pay the outstanding overdraft amount as she got in 
touch with Santander about this on 7 September. But despite this and further letters over a 
period of four months Mrs W failed to set up an arrangement or pay back the outstanding 
amount. And this resulted in Santander issuing a default notice on 13 February 2021. 
So I cant say Santander did anything wrong here or treated Mrs W unfairly as it was entitled 
to take the action it did in reducing Mrs Ws overdraft  indeed based on the credits going 
into the account it may have been irresponsible to do nothing. Santander gave Mrs W the 
required notice and when Mrs W failed to set up an arrangement with it or repay the 
outstanding balance it took the action it said it would take and issued a default notice.  
So overall and having considered everything I dont think Santander treated Mrs W unfairly 
or unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons I explained Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman