DRN-1395119
 
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the decision taken by Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) to cancel 
her car insurance policy. 
References to Tesco include its agents. 
What happened
Mrs S had a car insurance policy with Tesco. She set up a direct debit instruction for her 
monthly insurance premiums to be paid. 
In March 2019, Tesco asked for its payment by direct debit but the payment was missed due 
to insufficient funds in her account. Tesco contacted Mrs S to give her notice that the policy 
would be cancelled if she didnt make payment. It did this by post, email and phone, leaving 
a voicemail. In April, the March payment was made by Mrs S. 
In May, a similar issue occurred with that payment too. On 3 June, the May payment was 
paid by Mrs S.
On 16 September, Tesco asked for its payment by direct debit, but the payment was missed 
due to insufficient funds. It emailed Mrs S to let her know that it would try to collect the direct 
debit again. And it tried to do this on 24 September. This payment was also missed due to 
insufficient funds.
On 25 September, Tesco sent Mrs S a letter as the September payment was still 
outstanding. In this letter, Tesco told Mrs S her policy would be cancelled, on 11 October, if 
the September payment wasnt made by 10 October. It also tried to call Mrs S but there 
wasnt an answer and no longer the option to leave a voicemail. On 26 September and 5 
October, Tesco sent further emails to Mrs S asking her to pay the outstanding balance to 
avoid the policy being cancelled. These emails also prompted Mrs S to log in to her online 
account to access documents about this. As the payment wasnt made, Mrs Ss policy was 
cancelled on 11 October and Tesco contacted her to confirm this. 
On 11 October, Mrs S got in touch with Tesco to complain about this. Mrs S said she hadnt 
received notice from Tesco that this was going to happen and wanted Tesco to reinstate her 
policy. She said she hadnt received the letter until after the policy was cancelled and wasnt 
always able to check her emails. She felt Tesco shouldve made more attempts to call her to 
make sure shed received notice as shes busy with work and her family. Mrs S also said that 
shed tried to call Tesco on 8 October to make payment but hadnt been able to get through. 
Although it hadnt seen evidence that this is what had happened, Tesco offered £50 
compensation to Mrs S for any delay in answering her call.
Tesco didnt uphold her complaint and so she came to our service. Whilst she accepts that 
the payment was missed, she feels Tesco shouldve done more to make her aware they 
were going to cancel her car insurance policy. She also says it shouldve put the cancellation 
date in the messages.Mrs S brought her complaint to our service. The investigator looked into this matter. He 
thought:
1. the September letter to Mrs S was correctly addressed so he couldnt say that any 
delay in her receiving this letter was Tescos fault.
2. Tesco also sent emails on 26 September and 5 October 2019. Whilst they didnt 
state the proposed cancellation date in the emails, they did tell Mrs S to log into her 
account to view a document related to the message. He thought it was reasonable 
for someone to do this given the nature of the messages received. And, if she had 
logged in, she wouldve seen the detail of the correspondence.
3. Tesco tried to call Mrs S on 1 October 2019 even though it wasnt obliged to do this.
4. Given Tesco had tried to contact Mrs S by post, email and phone, he wasnt 
persuaded that further call attempts wouldve necessarily resulted in Mrs S making 
the missed payment.
5. There were also missed payments in March and May 2019. On those occasions, 
Tesco contacted Mrs S using the same methods and shed made the required 
payments to avoid the policy being cancelled. So he didnt feel he could agree that 
the process Tesco followed in relation to Septembers missing payment had 
disadvantaged her.
Taking everything into account, he thought Tesco had acted within the terms and conditions 
of the policy in cancelling Mrs Ss policy and made reasonable attempts to contact her about 
this. He also thought it had acted fairly and reasonably in this matter. So he didnt uphold her 
complaint and didnt ask Tesco to do anything to put things right.
Mrs S didnt agree. She repeated some of her earlier points and explained that shes very 
busy so didn't have time to do follow the email instructions to log in to her account to review 
the correspondence. But she feels that, if there had been a date in the messages, she 
would've known it was urgent. She also said that when she called Tesco, she was on hold 
for 20 minutes so gave up. 
Our investigator didnt change his opinion and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where theres a dispute about what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
I can see Mrs S feels strongly that Tesco havent treated her fairly. Ive considered whats 
happened with her policy, and the events leading up to Tescos decision to cancel it and how 
it communicated this to her.
Having done so, I have to tell Mrs S that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. And I think he set out the position clearly and thoroughly. So theres not much I feel I 
can usefully add to what has already been said.
Mrs Ss insurance policy terms gave Tesco the right to cancel its policy if Mrs S didnt make 
payment on time. And Tesco had on two previous occasions looked to take cancellation action when Mrs S fell behind with her payments. So, I dont think Tescos decision to cancel 
Mrs Ss policy when this happened a third time was unreasonable 
Even so, the terms of the policy said if a payment was missed, Tesco would give the 
policyholder the opportunity to make the payment. The terms also explained that if the 
premium remained unpaid, Tesco could cancel the policy by giving 14 days notice. Mrs S 
did fall behind at various points as the direct debits for her monthly premium were missed 
due to insufficient funds. And this is what it did.
I know Mrs S feels Tesco shouldve done more to let her know it was going to cancel her 
policy and when it would do this. But I dont see things quite the same. Mrs S herself accepts 
that she received some of the emails from Tesco but was too busy to log into her online 
account. I dont agree itd be fair or reasonable to say that this amounts to a failure on 
Tescos part to bring it to Mrs S attention. Especially when she did phone it on 8 October 
2019 to make the September payment. 
Further, I agree with our investigators view - the initial letter with notice of cancellation was 
addressed correctly and, therefore, more likely received in the usual way. And the emails 
made it clear that the matter was serious, explaining the policy would be cancelled if 
payment wasnt made and directing her to log on to her account for more details. So I think 
its reasonable to have expected Mrs S to do this or, at least, to make contact with Tesco 
straight away to make payment and avoid the policy being cancelled. An attempt to call 
Tesco once simply wasnt enough to avoid the policy being cancelled. And I think its 
important to add at this point that its Mrs Ss responsibility to ensure there was enough 
money in the account to meet the initial direct debit request so that payment can be made to 
a creditor on time.
Taking everything into account, I think Tesco followed its terms and conditions and made a 
number of attempts to contact Mrs S in various ways. This is more than it was required to do. 
So I think it has acted fairly and reasonably in this matter. 
I note that Tesco had offered Mrs S compensation of £50 for any delay in answering calls on 
8 October. Mrs S can contact Tesco to accept that payment if this hasnt already been done.
My final decision
 For the reasons provided, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs S complaint against 
Tesco Underwriting Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2020.
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman