DRN-1474287
The complaint
Mr A complains Assurant General Insurance Limited has turned down a claim he made for a 
lost mobile phone. 
What happened
Mr A put his phone in his trouser pocket while on a train.  Some time later, he realised he 
didn't have it, so reported it lost to Assurant. 
Assurant declined the claim. It said his policy had a term which says it can decline a claim if 
he doesn't take care of his phone.  Assurant pointed out Mr A had already reported four 
phones lost in similar circumstances, over the last fourteen months. It said it didn't think he'd 
taken care of his phone, learnt from his previous claims or taken further precautions to keep 
his device from going missing. Mr A didn't think that was fair so brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator thought Mr A's complaint should be upheld. He said Mr A's policy doesnt 
specifically state a claim will be declined where a previous loss has occurred under similar 
circumstances. Or did it explain what measures a customer would be expected to take to 
prevent a reoccurrence of such a loss. 
Assurant disagreed and asked for the case to be looked at by an ombudsman. It pointed to 
the policy term which explains a person should not leave a phone somewhere it is likely to 
be lost, stolen or damaged. It reiterated it thinks Mr A could have done more to prevent the 
loss of the phone. 
The complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Assurant has pointed to the fact Mr A has made four previous claims. The policy does have 
a restriction on the number of claims (four) that will be paid in a rolling twelve-month period. 
To avoid any misunderstanding on this issue, I think this claim is the fourth claim in the 
previous twelve months. The very first claim Mr A made on the policy would no longer be 
eligible to be taken into consideration, as it occurred over twelve months ago.
Assurant has said Mr A hasn't taken care of his phone as required by the policy. So, what I 
need to consider is if it has applied this term in a fair and reasonable way. 
The policy term Assurant has referred to says a person should not leave a phone 
somewhere it is likely to be lost, stolen or damaged. It then goes on to give examples of 
situations where it wouldn't pay a claim. Such as leaving your phone somewhere where you 
can't see it but others can, leaving it on display in your car, leaving it with someone you don't 
know very well and leaving it on a table in a bar or cafe.I don't agree with Assurant's interpretation of this term to mean that someone should learn 
from previous losses or take extra care if they've had previous claims. The examples that 
have been highlighted in the policy all demonstrate situations where someone has left their 
phone. Also, taking the normal meaning of the word 'leave' would be to 'go away from'. Mr A 
didn't go away from his phone, he had it in his pocket, so I don't think this term is relevant to 
the circumstances of the loss. 
Because of this I don't think Assurant has applied the term in a fair and reasonable way, and 
it has declined Mr A's claim incorrectly. 
Putting things right
Assurant should meet Mr A's claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
My final decision
I uphold Mr A's complaint against Assurant General Insurance Limited and direct it to meet 
Mr A's claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2020.
Alison Gore
Ombudsman