DRN-4146322
The complaint
Mr R has complained because he experienced difficulties when making a claim under the 
breakdown cover on a Travel pack that was provided by Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays).
What happened
Our adjudicator considered what Mr R and Barclays have said and provided, and he did not 
think that Barclays were responsible for the actions of the breakdown cover provider.
Mr R disagreed with this and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and I used this to help me decide this complaint. 
Having considered what Mr R has said, I understand why he believes that Barclays should 
be held responsible for how his claim was handled. But Barclays was correct in saying that it 
is not responsible for Mr Rs complaint about how his breakdown was handled. I will explain 
why. 
The Travel pack terms and conditions say that the cover for Roadside, Recovery and At 
Home Cover is provided a third party. Therefore, the agreement to provide breakdown cover 
is with this third party not with Barclays
In addition to the above, under the caring for our customers section of the policy, it explains 
that should the policyholder wish to make a complaint about the service they received during 
a recovery, they should contact the third party.
So in this case Barclays was essentially acting as an intermediary, selling a product that is 
being provided by another company. This is not unusual for products provided with a 
packaged account.
As such, Barclays was responsible for providing Mr R with the correct information about the 
breakdown cover when the Travel pack was sold to him. Its also responsible for correctly 
collecting the premiums - or in this case, the monthly Travel pack fees. But it is the 
breakdown cover provider who is responsible for dealing with claims in line with the terms 
and conditions of the product. And it is them who is responsible for dealing with complaints 
about this. 
As this complaint is against Barclays, and not the provider of the breakdown cover, Im 
unable to consider whether the breakdown recovery was handled correctly or in a 
reasonable manner. So I dont think Barclays needs to do anything further in relation to this 
matter.
I should highlight at this point that this decision represents our last stage in our process 
about this complaint and there is no further recourse to appeal or to discuss the merits of this 
complaint further. Mr R may be able to pursue his complaint elsewhere if he wishes such as 
in court.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman