DRN-4080332
The complaint
Mr A believes The Car Finance Company (2007) Ltd (CFC) acted irresponsibly by agreeing 
a hire purchase agreement hed applied for.
What happened
On 22 February 2017, Mr A was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase 
agreement with CFC. The agreement, which showed he paid a deposit of £150, was for 
£7,500 over 48 months, with monthly repayments of £312.71.
Mr A has complained that CFC didnt act responsibly when approving the finance. Hes said 
that the payslips provided to CFC didnt reflect his income, which was much lower than the 
one CFC had used. So, he didnt think the payments were affordable. 
CFC considered this complaint, but they thought theyd done adequate checks, which 
showed that Mr A could afford the payments. And they didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr A wasnt happy with this, so he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that CFC had confirmed Mr As income from two recent payslips and 
determined his outgoings from both the information Mr A had provided and from a copy of 
his credit file. While she said that this showed the finance was affordable to Mr A, she also 
said that the credit file showed recent adverse credit. So, she thought CFC shouldve 
undertaken more checks.
The investigator considered Mr As bank statements, to show what his likely financial 
situation was at the time. And, she thought that these showed that the finance was 
affordable. Given this, she said CFC hadnt done anything wrong when they approved the 
finance Mr A applied for.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator. He said that the payslips he provided to the broker 
werent the same payslips the broker provided to CFC, and the actual payslips showed a 
much lower income. He provided a series of invoices ranging from 11 January 2017 to 9 
June 2018, showing that he was charging a company £125 a night for weekend work. Given 
this, these invoices equate to an annual income of around £6,500 a year.
Mr A also said that, at the time of the application, he was living at home while studying and 
working part-time, and that, shortly after the finance was agreed, he was made homeless 
due to a parents unpaid rent arrears.
In addition, Mr A said that he paid a £1,000 deposit for the car, the dealership took his 
existing car in part-exchange (valued at £500), and that the £150 he paid the dealership was 
actually for a credit check. 
Mr A provided a screenshot from HMRC that shows he didnt make a full NI contribution in 
the financial year 2016 to 2017. He also provided further information from HMRC that 
showed hed earned £313 from his employment in the financial year 2016/17 (which was 
from a different company to the one hed provided the invoices for).
The investigator explained that the issues Mr A has raised about the payslips the broker 
provided CFC is a serious and complex matter, but its a complaint about the broker and not 
CFC. And we wont be able to consider this part of the complaint. She also thought that CFC 
had acted reasonably by relying on the information theyd been provided with, given that 
there was nothing to reasonably indicate the payslips werent Mr As, as he alleges. As such, 
this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did CFC complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr A 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did CFC make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr A 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did CFC act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that CFC didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Mr As 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did CFC complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr A would be 
able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration, and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
The finance application submitted to CFC showed a declared income of £2,000 a month. 
This was also supported by payslips for December 2016 and January 2017, both of which 
showed a net monthly income of just above £2,000. Whats more, Ive seen an income and 
expenditure form which shows an income of £2,000 a month, that was signed by Mr A on 22 
February 2017 under the declaration I confirm that this statement has been provided by me 
and confirm that I can afford the monthly payment of £312.71.
Mr As allegations that the broker provided fraudulent payslips to CFC is a complaint against 
the broker, not CFC. And, as advised by the investigator, this isnt something we are looking 
into  Mr A needs to raise this complaint directly with the broker. And, as alleged fraud is a 
legal matter, this is something he may wish to take legal advice on or speak to an 
organisation such as Action Fraud or the police about.The payslips dont match with the information Mr A has subsequently provided from HMRC 
about his employment record at the time of the application. However, the invoices Mr A has 
provided to show his income at the time also dont match with the HMRC record, and the 
total of the invoices is substantially more than the declared income on the HMRC record. 
Ive also noted that Mr As National Insurance Number, as confirmed by the HMRC record, 
appears on the payslips submitted to CFC as part of the application, but doesnt appear on 
the invoices Mr A says he provided to the broker to prove his income.
Given the above, I think its fair to say that, at the time of the finance application, Mr A was 
earning some income that, for whatever reason, wasnt being recorded by HMRC. 
However, notwithstanding this, CFC received an application and declaration signed by Mr A 
confirming an income of £2,000 a month, which was supported by payslips confirming an 
income of £2,000 a month. And I havent seen anything to show me that CFC shouldve 
suspected the payslips didnt relate to Mr As income. As such, Im satisfied that it was 
reasonable for CFC to use this income as part of their affordability calculations.
CFC have also provided a copy of the information they found on Mr As credit file. This 
shows he had a £427 outstanding balance on a credit card that had had a recent missed 
payment; that he had two bank accounts which were generally conducted within their 
overdraft limit, although these were occasionally exceeded; and that he had been defaulted 
on a credit commitment in August 2016. The credit file also shows that Mr A had had a 
number of short term high interest loans, otherwise known as payday loans, although these 
had all been repaid and there was no history of missed payments on these.
The income and expenditure form submitted by the broker, which had been signed by Mr A 
confirming it was correct, declared an income of £2,000 a month. It showed he was paying 
£300 a month to his parent; that he spent £150 a month on food, had £460 a month car and 
travel costs; that he paid £21 a month to his credit card; and that he spent £250 a month on 
his phone and other regular discretionary expenditure. This gave Mr A a disposable income 
of £819 a month, which CFC determined to be sufficient to sustainably support their payment 
of £312 a month.
While the information CFC reviewed clearly indicated that Mr A could afford the finance hed 
applied for, I dont think that the checks they did were sufficient. I say this because, although 
theyd verified the income from payslips, they hadnt verified the expenditure. And the recent 
missed payment, default, and use of payday loans on the credit file indicate that Mr A could 
have been struggling financially.
As such, Id expect CFC to have verified Mr As outgoings as part of their affordability 
checks. And, as they didnt, Ive gone on to consider what CFC would likely have found had 
reasonable and proportionate checks been carried out.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr A would be able to repay 
the credit in a sustainable way?
Mr A has provided copies of his bank statements for four accounts, covering the period 20 
July 2015 to 31 March 2017. While this gives an insight into his financial position, I wouldnt 
have expected CFC to have asked Mr A for copies of these. However, Im satisfied that the 
statements would give a good indication of what CFC would likely have taken into 
consideration had they asked Mr A to prove his committed expenditure.When considering the bank statements, Ive only considered the statements for November 
2016 to January 2017, the three-month period immediately before the finance was applied 
for. Im satisfied these statements would give an indication of Mr As regular committed 
outgoings at the time of the application.
The bank statements show a large number of cash transactions, and transfers between 
accounts. However, they also confirm Mr A was paying an average of £77 a month for his 
phone, higher than the £60 that had been declared as part of the application. The car tax is 
showing as £16 a month (£10 declared) and the car insurance £51 a month (£150 declared). 
The statements also show that Mr A was making regular payments to his credit card in 
excess of the minimum payment he was committed to. However, as CFC would only be 
looking to confirm his committed expenditure, I think its reasonable that they used the 
committed minimum payment in their calculations.
Based on the contents of the bank statements, and the figures Mr A had declared that 
couldnt be confirmed through these, Mr A had a committed monthly expenditure of £1,105, 
which would give him a disposable income of £895 based on the £2,000 income Mr A had 
declared and which had been confirmed by the payslips submitted.
Regarding the income, the bank statements show that Mr A was receiving the income 
confirmed by the invoices, but which dont appear on the HMRC record; and that he received 
£110 from the employment confirmed on the HMRC record. However, they also show that, in 
the three-month period reviewed, he received £1,992 from two employers who also dont 
appear on the HMRC record. As such, I dont think the bank statements Mr A has provided 
couldve been reasonably used to verify his income.
As such, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr A, Im satisfied that, 
had CFC carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to verify his committed 
expenditure, then theres no valid reason why they wouldnt have found the finance to be 
sustainably affordable. And its for this reason why I wont be asking them to refund all or 
part of the payments Mr A paid, or of any interest and fees he may have been charged.
Did CFC act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see that Mr A disputes the amount of deposit he paid for the car and says this was 
more than £150. However, the invoice from the dealership clearly says the deposit was 
£150. Given this, I dont think that CFC acted unfairly or unreasonably by recording the 
figures from the invoice on the agreement Mr A signed.
I havent seen anything else to make me think CFC acted unfairly or unreasonably in some 
other way.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr As complaint about The Car Finance 
Company (2007) Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman