DRN-3106525
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Covea Insurance plc undervalued his car when it settled a 
claim on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Covea includes its agents in whose name the policy is branded.
What happened
Mr Cs car caught fire and Covea deemed it a total loss. Covea based its claim settlement on 
the car having a market value of £8,117. Mr C believes that figure is too low. He brought his 
complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She didn't think Covea needed to 
take any further action. Mr C didn't agree so his complaint's been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
Mr Cs policy says that if his car is deemed a total loss then Covea will pay him its market 
value  less his excess. The policy defines market value as:
The cost of replacing your car with one of the same make, model, specification, year, 
mileage and condition. In deciding the market value of your car, we will refer to insurance 
industry recognised guides as well as searching for available vehicles being offered for sale 
to the public.
When looking at a complaint of this nature its not my role to value cars instead Ill look to 
see whether or not an insurers reached its valuation reasonably. Our usual approach to 
complaints about valuations is to look at the relevant trade guides for valuing second-hand 
cars. We find these more reliable than figures cars are advertised for. That's because the 
trade guides use extensive research of likely selling prices for cars, whereas the price a car 
is advertised for isn't necessarily the price its sold for, if in fact it sells at all. 
Covea referred to the trade guides when it arrived at its valuation of £8,117. Mr C doesn't 
dispute that but thinks his car was worth at least £9,000. Hes pointed out that the 
second-hand car market is buoyant at the moment, and hes sent us press articles to support 
that point. So he doesn't think the historic data the trade guides have used to arrive at their 
valuations reflects the current second-hand market. He also believes that the specification of 
his car makes it more desirable and therefore increases the price. But I don't think thats 
right.
First, the trade guides research numerous sources of information when arriving at their 
valuations. And they value cars based on their likely market value at the time the car was 
deemed a total loss. So they reflect the value of Mr Cs car on the day it caught fire. Further 
the valuations include the specification of the actual car, and assumes the car has a full 
service history and is in show room condition for a car of that age and mileage. So the 
specification of Mr Cs car won't make it more expensive than the guides valuations as they 
will have already factored that in.
Further, its notable that three of the four guides gave valuations of £8,185, £8,125, £8,040. 
Thats a spread of less than 2%. The fourth guide produced a figure around £770 lower than 
the other three, so Covea disregarded the low figure. In line with our usual guidance Covea 
then used the other three valuations to produce an average figure of £8,117. And given the 
guides expertise in such matters and the consistency of the valuations across three of them, 
I think their valuations are likely to be reliable, even in a buoyant market. 
Mr C has also referred to advertised prices for other cars to support his argument that the 
trade guides aren't reflective of the value of his car. But as I've said above, I don't find 
advertised prices reliable as they're often inflated to allow for negotiation. I've also noted that 
when Covea valued the car it found at least one advert for a similar car being advertised at a 
price that supported its valuation. Similarly, one of the trade guides  the one whose figure 
Covea disregarded  also showed adverts for cars which supported its valuation, and that 
was the lowest of the four values the trade guides provided. So, there were clearly cars 
being advertised at the time that Mr Cs car caught fire which supported the trade guides 
valuations. It follows that I dont think Coveas valuation is unfair. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman