DRN-4231192
The complaint
Mr G complains his broker, Unique Insurance Services Limited (UISL), sold him a home 
insurance policy and didnt subsequently notify him that it had been cancelled.
What happened
UISL sold Mr G a home insurance policy in November 2021.  
When Mr G tried to claim on the policy, the underwriter of it, told him he didnt have a 
live policy and that it had been cancelled on inception because the premiums hadnt 
been paid. So, it said it couldnt consider his claims.
Unhappy, Mr G contacted UISL. He said hed continued to pay the premiums and so 
was under the impression he had a live policy. 
UISL said Mr Gs policy should be live and that it would investigate his concerns and 
come back to him, but it never provided a response. Mr G contacted UISL numerous 
times to chase the matter up but to date, he still hasnt heard back. 
Mr G brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it and upheld 
the complaint. She said UISL should pay Mr G £350 for failing to reply to his 
concerns and causing him avoidable distress. 
UISL didnt reply to the Investigators view, and so, the complaint has been passed to 
me for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
But first, I need to clarify that my decision is only focussing on the actions of UISL as the 
seller of the policy. Concerns about the claims Mr G made under his policy have been 
considered separately by this Service against the insurer of the policy. 
From what Ive seen, Mr G contacted UISL a number of times to ascertain why his policy had 
been cancelled from inception and why the premiums continued to be collected when a 
policy wasnt in place  but hes not been given an answer. This Service has tried to obtain 
information from UISL, but it hasnt responded to our requests. So, my decision is based on 
the information Mr G has provided.
When Mr G initially complained to UISL it said it would investigate his concerns, but it never 
provided an outcome  and Mr Gs subsequent attempts to communicate with UISL have 
been repeatedly ignored.  
Understandably, it would have been stressful for Mr G to be told he didnt have a policy in 
place when he tried to make a claim. And this was no doubt compounded by UISLs failure 
to investigate his concerns and engage with him. Mr G is also justifiably concerned that hes 
been paying for a policy he didnt appear to have.  
Whilst, the insurer has agreed to consider the claims, UISL has caused Mr G avoidable 
distress by not investigating his concerns and providing a response on the matter. So, I 
agree with the Investigators recommendation that compensation is warranted in the 
circumstances. And I consider £350 compensation to fairly reflect the difficulties Mr G has 
experienced. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Unique Insurance Services Limited 
to pay Mr G £350 compensation. 
Unique Insurance Services Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr G accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman