DRN-3462832
The complaint
Mr E and Ms F complain that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to refund a transaction that Ms F didnt
recognise.
What happened
Mr E and Ms F have a joint account. It was Ms Fs experience that led to the complaint, so Ill
mainly refer to her throughout the decision.
Ms F explained that shed attempted to use an Automated Teller Machine (ATM) to withdraw
funds, but was unsuccessful. Shed experienced a problem with the machine and believed
that there were other persons near the machine when this happened. Ms F went on to say
that shed visited another ATM and the machine wouldnt dispense any funds to her.
It was later found that £500 had been withdrawn from the ATM and the withdrawal was
unrecognised by Ms F, who with the help of Mr E, contacted Lloyds about it. Ms F confirmed
she still had possession of her card and hadnt told anyone else her Personal Identification
Number (PIN).
Lloyds explained that the £500 was withdrawn from the ATM used by Ms F and the money
was successfully dispensed. Ms F doesnt remember receiving this amount. Ms F explained
that the cash was for some local shopping and she wouldnt withdraw such a large sum.
Mr E spoke with Lloyds on several occasions and its apparent from the evidence that both
he and Ms F were given misleading information by Lloyds, including a commitment by Lloyds
to provide a temporary refund to Ms F. Lloyds continued to maintain that the withdrawal was
done properly and declined to refund Miss F. Lloyds advised Ms F to contact their fraud
department about the loss.
A complaint was made to Lloyds who looked into the situation and accepted that theyd let
both Mr E and Ms F down with their customer service and confusing explanations about the
issue. Lloyds made several payments totalling £177 to Mr E and Ms F to cover the cost of
calls and compensation for the poor customer service.
Ms F remained unhappy with how Lloyds had dealt with her complaint and brought it to the
Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our
investigators who thought that Lloyds had let Ms F down with the way they handled the
situation but didnt think that the ATM withdrawal should be refunded. He also thought that
Lloyds compensation was appropriate and didnt recommend Lloyds make any further
payments. It was thought that neither Mr E or Ms F had ever spoken with Lloyds fraud
department.
Ms F disagreed and asked for a further review, providing evidence of calls to Lloyds fraud
department.
I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Fs complaint revolves around a withdrawal at an ATM that she didnt recognise. There
were later issues with how Lloyds handled the issue which Ill also address. But first I wanted
to deal with the ATM withdrawal.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The
basic position is that Lloyds can hold Ms F liable for the disputed payment if the evidence
suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them.
Lloyds can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Ms F authorised the
transactions, but Lloyds cannot say that the use of the card and PIN conclusively proves that
the payments were authorised.
Unless Lloyds can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the
payment or to debit Ms Fs account and any such transaction must be regarded as
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools
issued to Ms F. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Ms F responsible for the disputed
transaction or not.
Lloyds ATM records show that a withdrawal for £500 was made by Ms Fs card. This
required both Ms Fs genuine debit card and her PIN. Its apparent from Ms Fs evidence that
she hadnt given her card and PIN to anyone else at the time of the withdrawal and she still
had her card when the issue was reported to Lloyds later that day.
Lloyds ATM records show several other attempts to withdraw smaller amounts which were
denied because the daily withdrawal limit had already been reached with the first withdrawal.
Its a little unclear from the evidence whether anyone was near Ms F at the time of the
withdrawal, but I understand there may have been other persons nearby at one of the
withdrawal attempts.
Its difficult to imagine a scenario where an unauthorised third party was able to obtain Ms
Fs card and PIN in order to make the withdrawal and return it to Ms F without her being
aware. Of course, its possible the funds were removed from the ATM without Ms F being
aware if she was distracted by others, but in such a case, she would still have authorised the
withdrawal. Once the ATM dispenses the funds, Lloyds have completed the transaction. The
evidence points to Ms F making a withdrawal which was then dispensed from the ATM,
although I do appreciate Ms F has said she doesnt make such large cash withdrawals.
I sought additional information about the condition of the ATM and Lloyds confirmed that it
was operating normally both prior to and after the £500 withdrawal. So, taking everything
into account, the evidence Ive reviewed so far indicates it was more likely than not that Ms F
was responsible for withdrawing the funds from the ATM and it was reasonable for Lloyds to
hold her liable for it.
Customer Service
Mr E on behalf of Ms F spent many hours speaking with Lloyds about the issue. Its apparent
that both he and Ms F were given misleading information about what was happening. Lloyds
repeatedly told Mr E and Ms F that they should report the matter to their fraud department,
rather than deal with it as an ATM dispute.The evidence shows that Mr E did contact Lloyds fraud department, so Im unsure why
Lloyds didnt recognise this when they were looking into the matter. I dont think Lloyds dealt
with this particularly well, but I also dont think the confusion caused Lloyds to come to the
wrong decision when they declined to make a refund as the evidence shows it was likely Ms
F who made the withdrawal.
Lloyds accepted theyd let Ms F down with their handling of the issue and made payments
totalling £177 for the cost of calls and compensation for the trouble theyd caused. I think this
was a reasonable way for them to recognise how theyd let Ms F down and I dont propose
to increase this.
I invited Mr E and Ms F and Lloyds to give me any more evidence and information they 
wanted me to consider before issuing my final decision. Lloyds didnt have anything further 
to add. Mr E and Ms F continued to disagree and believed that Ms F had been the victim of 
fraud and should receive a refund but didnt have any additional evidence to submit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party had anything further to add that I havent already 
considered, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms 
the findings set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Ms F to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 October 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman