The complaint
B, a limited company, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (Cashplus) 
didnt deal with a request to increase the limit on a business account.
B is represented in this complaint by Mr A, a director, so Ill refer to him directly in my 
decision.
What happened
B opened a business account with Cashplus in April 2019. The account had a limit on the 
maximum balance of £15,000. A few days after opening the account, Mr A called Cashplus 
and requested the account limit be increased to £40,000 for buying and selling cars. 
Cashplus said it would review Mr As request. Upon review Cashplus needed more 
information from Mr A, and says it sent him a questionnaire to complete and return online.
In June 2019, Mr A received a message from Cashplus. It said it had received two payments 
that took the account over its balance limit. It said the payments would be refunded back 
unless Mr A called them. Mr A called Cashplus and said he thought the limit increase had 
been agreed. Cashplus told Mr A he hadnt completed the questionnaire it sent, so the 
account limit was the same as when he opened it. Mr A completed the questionnaire on the 
same day, but Cashplus refunded the two payments. Cashplus said Bs account increase 
was still under review, so the delay in completing the questionnaire wouldnt have changed 
the outcome of the returned payments.
Mr A complained to Cashplus. He said he didnt receive the original questionnaire and said 
in the meantime he had won an auction for another car. But he couldnt pay for it as 
Cashplus hadnt increased Bs account limit.
Cashplus said it had sent the questionnaire to Mr A when he first requested a limit increase. 
It did acknowledge there had been a delay in reviewing the completed questionnaire and 
offered Mr A £50 for the inconvenience caused. 
Mr A brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked at everything and thought 
Cashplus should do more to compensate Mr A. He found that it was reasonable for 
Cashplus to refund the payments as the account limit increase was under review. And he 
found that Cashplus had generated a request for the questionnaire when Mr A first 
requested the limit increase. But he couldnt definitively say it was sent to Mr A at the same 
time. Had it done so, he concluded it was likely Mr A would have completed the 
questionnaire sooner. So he recommended Cashplus compensate Mr A £100 for the 
inconvenience caused.
DRN-1228903Cashplus disagreed with our investigators findings. It said it had sent the original 
questionnaire so didnt feel further compensation was necessary., Mr A didnt provide 
anything further for our service to consider. The complaint has now been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Ill be upholding this 
complaint and for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain why below.
Cashplus has sent call recordings from the time Mr A requested a balance limit increase. Ive 
listened to the calls and referred to the terms and conditions of Bs account to see if 
Cashplus has acted fairly. The terms of Bs account state Higher limits may be made 
available at Card issuer AFLs sole discretion. So I think it is clear there would be no 
guarantee of a balance limit increase when Mr A first requested it. 
Ive next listened to the call where Mr A requests a limit increase to £40,000. The agent at 
Cashplus asks for some more information and says the request will be reviewed within 48 
working hours. Cashplus told Mr A if it needs more information it will be in contact. At this 
stage I think Cashplus provided Mr A with the correct information as it didnt know if more 
information would be needed to process the request.
Ive reviewed the contact notes for Bs account which show Cashplus generated a 
questionnaire a few days after Mr A called. Cashplus says it sent this to Bs online account. 
Mr A says he didnt receive this questionnaire. Our investigator asked Cashplus for further 
evidence the questionnaire was sent to Mr A, but it was unable to provide any more 
evidence.
On balance, Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me this questionnaire was sent. I 
say this because Mr A completed the questionnaire immediately after he called Cashplus in 
June 2019 and it sent him another copy. On this call the agent says they can see the 
questionnaire was sent to Mr As online account when he first called to request an increase, 
so I would expect to see evidence that Mr A either opened or read the first questionnaire, or 
not. But based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely Mr A would have returned the 
questionnaire sooner if hed been sent it.
Mr A says this delay has caused an impact to B as he uses the account to buy and sell cars. 
I agree that Cashplus has caused some delay in regard to the questionnaire. And I think the 
further compensation of £50 recommended by our investigator is reasonable for the 
inconvenience caused to B.
I cant fairly ask Cashplus to compensate Mr A further in regard to potential car purchases 
and sales, as there was no guarantee it would agree to the limit increase he requested.        I 
also think that as the limit increase hadnt been approved yet it was fair for Cashplus to 
refund the two payments in line with the account terms.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited to pay B £100 for the inconvenience caused. Advanced Payment Solutions Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr A, on behalf of B, accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2020.
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman