DRN-3430518
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited declined a claim he made under 
his home insurance policy for subsidence.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr M noticed cracking to his home and got in touch with Lloyds about it.
Lloyds appointed a loss adjuster, who arranged an inspection. It didnt think the 
damage had been caused by subsidence and declined the claim.
Mr M complained about this, but Lloyds thought the right decision had been reached.
Our investigator thought Lloyds had acted fairly. He noted there was no expert report 
to challenge the loss adjusters opinion.
Mr M disagreed, so his complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms home insurance policy provides cover for, amongst other things, damage caused by 
subsidence. This means damage caused by the downward movement of the ground beneath 
the building, not due to the weight of the building.
Lloyds asked a loss adjuster to inspect the damage and consider whether it had been 
caused by subsidence. They visited Mr Ms home, found out about the history of damage 
and insurance claims, took photos, and wrote a report.
It explains how Mr Ms home had suffered subsidence damage in the 1990s. That was dealt 
with by an insurer, but problems have persisted, and further claims were made to various 
insurers over the years. I understand no further subsidence claims were accepted as the 
damage was attributed to other, uninsured causes.
Only the most recent claim was looked at by Lloyds  earlier claims were looked at by other 
insurers. I cant hold Lloyds responsible for the way other insurers have dealt with things. So, 
under this complaint, Im limited to considering how Lloyds has dealt with the recent claim.
The loss adjuster didnt think there was any evidence of a current subsidence problem. They 
identified a number of causes of damage, none of which amount to subsidence or anything 
else covered by the policy. For example, thermal movement, debonded plaster and a lack of 
restraint to walls.
I find the report thorough, clear and persuasive. The loss adjuster is a chartered engineer 
and a member of a relevant professional body. So Im satisfied theyre appropriately qualified 
to provide an expert opinion on the cause of damage.
I havent seen any other expert opinions that might challenge the loss adjusters, or which 
suggest the problems are caused by subsidence.
For these reasons Im satisfied Lloyds has acted fairly when declining the claim. So I wont 
be asking it to do anything further.
Mr M is entitled to take advice about the cause of damage and share the findings with 
Lloyds. If he does so, I would expect Lloyds to consider the matter further.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman