DRN-3810563
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim made under her pet 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs R has explained that she took her dog, L, to the vets for dental treatment, in February 
2022. Unfortunately, following this procedure, the vet contacted her and let her know there 
were complications from the surgery carried out.
L was suffering from haemorrhaging. And Ls left eye had swollen. So, L needed to receive 
treatment for these problems. The vet was able to stop the bleeding. But Ls eye was 
irreparably damaged  with her losing sight in this eye.
Mrs R was invoiced for the treatment needed, as a result of the complications. So, she made 
a claim for this loss under her pet insurance policy.
Great Lakes considered the claim and declined it. Great Lakes said the issue was pre-
existing, and so not covered by the policy. But it later noted this was incorrect, but the claim 
still wasnt covered. It said the policy didnt provide cover for dental treatment  or for 
complications arising from it.
Mrs R didnt feel this was fair. So, she raised these concerns with Great Lakes. It maintained 
its position on the matter. As Mrs R remained dissatisfied, she referred her complaint to this 
service, for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Our 
investigator considered that Great Lakes had ultimately declined the claim correctly, in line 
with the terms of Mrs Rs policy. So, she didnt recommend that Great Lakes do anything 
differently.
Mrs R didnt agree. In summary, she noted the vets were shocked that the emergency 
treatment wasnt covered. And she felt Great Lakes were trying to get out of paying a claim 
that should be settled.  Mrs R also highlighted she was aware the dental treatment itself 
wasnt covered.
Because Mrs R didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I appreciate this will 
be disappointing for Mrs R. Its clear she feels strongly about the matter. But Ive explained 
the reasoning for my decision below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether Great 
Lakes acted in line with these requirements, when it declined to settle Mrs Rs claim. 
Ive considered Mrs Rs policy documentation, to see what cover the policy provides. And I 
can see that the policy only provides cover for dental treatment  when this is needed as a 
result of an accident. Any other dental treatment isnt covered. Ls dental treatment wasnt 
because of an accident. So, Im satisfied the initial dental procedure carried out isnt covered 
by the policy. And Great Lakes acted correctly in not to settling this element of the loss. Mrs 
R accepts this  and appreciates the dental treatment itself isnt something covered under 
the policy. 
But Mrs R feels that the complications that arose following the dental surgery should be 
covered under her policy. Mrs R said the treatment was because of haemorrhaging, and 
action was needed to stop this, and to treat problems with Ls left eye that occurred as a 
result. So, Ive thought carefully about this. Mrs Rs policy does provide cover for emergency 
treatment.
But, as above, the policy doesnt provide cover for dental treatments. And I can see it also 
doesnt provide cover for complications that arise out of treatment that wasnt prescribed. Its 
clear from Mrs Rs testimony, and the emergency veterinary practice notes, that Ls 
treatment for haemorrhaging came about due to dental treatment. And Im aware this 
treatment wasnt prescribed  but was elected for. So, complications arising from the 
treatment arent covered. Im therefore satisfied Great Lakes declined the claim fairly, and in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy. So, I dont require it to do anything 
differently. 
Mrs R has raised that Great Lakes initially declined her claim correctly. I can see that in 
Great Lakes response to Mrs R, it acknowledged that its initial reasoning to decline the 
claim wasnt accurate. As this has been accepted by Great Lakes, I havent needed to 
consider whether it did anything wrong here. But I have needed to consider whether it acted 
fairly when putting this right. 
And I think Great Lakes did act fairly in this regard. It apologised for the mistake and 
explained the correct reasoning for declining the claim. And Im satisfied that was a 
reasonable action to take, to rectify the issue. There wasnt any additional impact as a result 
of the mistake  because the claim wasnt covered anyway. So, I think the apology was a fair 
and reasonable action to recognise the confusion caused. I therefore dont require Great 
Lakes to do anything differently here.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Great Lakes Insurance SE to do anything differently here.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman