DRN-1913501
The complaint
What happened
In April 2016 Mr O entered into a Hire Purchase Agreement for 36 months. I gather the 
contract end date was 29 April 2019, but the car was returned in July 2019. Subsequently 
MBFS charged Mr O a daily rental sum of £15.82 a day which totals £1138.32.
It also charged him for damages, but that is not being considered as part of this complaint. 
MBFS rejected his complaint and said its agent had tried to collect the car on several 
occasions. It gave Mr O a copy for the third parties records of attempts. Mr O remained 
unhappy and brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
She reviewed the records of collection attempts and concluded reasonable efforts had been 
made to collect the car. She noted that the first attempt was on 15 May and the agent said 
Mr O wasnt present at his house. He says he waited in all day. The next collection was 
booked for 5 June 2019, but Mr O asked that he be contacted an hour before arrival so you 
could get home, but that did not happen and the representative said that he could not wait 
for to you return.
On balance our investigator concluded there was no basis to uphold the complaint. Mr O 
didnt agree and said the late collection was the fault of the collection agency.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O complains that MercedesBenz Financial Services UK Limitedimposed hire charges 
unfairly at the end of his finance agreement when it failed to ensure the car was collected.I have looked at the agreement signed by Mr O. It states that when it is terminated and you 
will cease to be in possession of the Vehicle with our consent. You shall forthwith return the 
Vehicle to us in good condition, repair and working order at your own risk and cost at such 
address as we may reasonably specify and deliver up all registration and other documents 
relating to the vehicle.
That shows the onus was on Mr O to return the car. I can appreciate he relied on the 
collection agency, but I have seen no sign that he took any notable action to ensure the car 
was returned by the end of the contract. The first collection date was well after the 
agreement had ended and I have not seen that he showed any urgency to ensure the car 
was returned. 
I have looked at the collection agency notes and I am satisfied it took reasonable steps to 
collect the car. It is regrettable that it didnt succeed, but I cannot say with any certainty that 
this was the fault of MBFS. I appreciate it would have been convenient for Mr O if the 
collection agency could have given him an hours notice, but it wasnt obliged to do so.
He had use of the car up to 29 April and I consider it reasonable that he pay for that use as it 
remained in his possession and MBFS was denied access to its possession.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman