DRN-3481425
The complaint
Mr E complains that AWP P&C SA (AWP) unfairly declined his claim under his Home 
Emergency policy.
What happened
Mr E had a home emergency policy with AWP. The policy provided cover for a number of 
home emergencies, including problems with the primary heating system. The cover started 
on 1 December 2020.
On 11 February 2021 Mr E noticed that his central heating boiler had suddenly begun to 
make a loud noise. As an experienced mechanical engineer, he said he diagnosed that the 
problem was linked to the boiler fan. And felt that if he left it running it was likely to fail soon, 
with the possibility of serious consequential damage beyond what he thought was the 
damaged part. Mr E said he understood that he had a duty to mitigate the damage to his 
boiler. So felt that if he had allowed the boiler to continue to operate, he wouldve failed in 
this duty. So he turned the boiler off to prevent additional damage.
Mr E contacted AWP the same day to make a boiler breakdown claim under his home 
emergency policy. AWP declined Mr Es claim. They said the policy only provided cover 
following the complete failure or breakdown of the boiler. 
Mr E arranged for a gas engineer to inspect the boiler. The engineer found a problem with 
the fan and heat exchanger. Mr E said this was the same diagnosis he had initially made 
and reported to AWP. The engineer completed the required repair on 16 February 2021 after 
the parts he needed had arrived. Mr E told this service that the gas engineer told him that he 
would also have shut the boiler down immediately under the circumstances.
Mr E shared the total cost of the boiler repair work with AWP. 
Mr E complained to AWP. AWP didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response letter, 
they apologised for taking longer than expected to respond to the complaint. They said that 
as there was heating and hot water on the property (before Mr E had turned off the boiler) it 
would not be considered a breakdown. They said they didnt send assistance for impending 
or anticipated issues. AWP referenced what they said was the relevant policy booklet. They 
said that on page 16 it stated: Claims for any fault where hot water and heating are still 
available are not covered under this policy. And that was why the claim had been declined.
Mr E didnt agree with AWP. He said that he had a different policy booklet. He said that his 
booklet had details about the heating system on page 14, not page 16. And that the 
sentence AWP had quoted didnt appear anywhere in his copy of the booklet.
AWP didnt reply to Mr E, so he brought his complaint to this service. He said that the boiler 
had failed during the coldest weather of the winter. And that he and his wife  who are both 
over 70  had to buy additional electric room heaters while they were waiting for the repair. 
He said that the total cost of the repair work was £854.40. This was made up as follows:
Call out to diagnose fault £60
Replacement fan £180.40
Labour to fit fan £60
New heat exchanger £404
Corrosion inhibitor £30
Labour to fit heat exchanger £120
Mr E said he only expected his home emergency policy to cover the failed fan and its 
installation. He said this cost a total, including call out, of £300.40.
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. He felt that Mr Es claim fell under 
the definition of cover under the policy. Therefore he felt that AWP should reimburse Mr E 
£300.40, plus 8% simple interest calculated from 16 February 2021 until the date payment is 
made. And that they should pay him £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
theyd caused.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AWP initially provided a link to this service containing the business file. But the link provided 
had expired by the time the case was allocated. So our investigator requested the following 
information from AWP on several occasions:
Please resend the link, please ensure the file includes:
A timeline of events and a summary of AWP P&C SAs position on Mr Es complaint
Copies of all relevant claim correspondence
A copy of the relevant policy documents, including the policy wording, statement of 
fact and schedule of insurance 
Copies of relevant system/claim notes
Any other evidence youd like us to consider as part of our investigation
AWP didnt reply to our investigator, so Ive had to make my decision on this complaint solely 
on the basis of the limited information Mr E provided. 
Having carefully considered Mr Es complaint, I agree with our investigator that it should be 
upheld. Ill explain why. 
The policy document Mr E has shared with us is clearly not the same as the one AWP 
referenced in their final response letter. I dont have access to the booklet AWP referenced. 
And I cant be certain whether that booklet, or Mr Es booklet, is the correct one for his policy 
cover. However, as Ive only got access to Mr Es booklet, and as Ive no reason to doubt that this is the booklet AWP provided him with, Ive relied on the wording in that to make my 
decision.
Mr Es policy booklet said that his policy provided cover for home emergencies including the 
complete failure or breakdown of either the heating and/or hot-water supply provided by the 
primary heating system. The policy defined the term emergency/emergencies, stating: 
A sudden and unforeseen domestic situation which, if not dealt with quickly, will:
Make your home unsafe or insecure
Damage, or cause further damage to your home or its contents
Result in your home losing its main source of heating, lighting or water
From the evidence I have, Im satisfied that the circumstances Mr E has described meet the 
definition of emergency. I say this because Mr E, an experienced former mechanical 
engineer, believed that if left running, the boiler would be further damaged. This would have 
clearly led to the loss of his homes main heating system. The gas engineer who repaired the 
boiler drew the same conclusion after fixing it. Therefore I consider that when Mr E heard the 
loud noise coming from his boiler, and correctly identified the cause of the noise, he did 
experience a sudden and unforeseen domestic situation.
Mr Es policy booklet doesnt contain the statement AWP referenced in their final response 
letter. So I dont consider it fair or reasonable for AWP to decline Mr Es claim on the basis of 
policy wording that doesnt exist in the booklet he was provided with. Ive carefully reviewed 
Mr Es booklet, and Ive found no exclusions listed that I consider would fairly allow AWP to 
decline his claim. Therefore I consider that Mr E should be reimbursed for the full cost of 
replacing the boiler fan. This was £300.40. As Mr E has been deprived of the use of that 
amount of money since 16 February 2021, AWP must also add interest to the repayment.  
I cant know how long the repair work wouldve taken if AWP had accepted Mr Es claim 
when he first made it. But its certainly possible that in declining Mr Es claim, AWP couldve 
caused him to be without heating for longer than he wouldve been had they immediately 
accepted it. Mr E was left with no heating for five days in the winter. And he had to arrange 
his own repair work. The unfair declination of his claim would also have been very 
frustrating. Therefore, I agree with our investigator that AWP should also pay Mr E £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience they caused him. 
Putting things right
I require AWP P&C SA to take the following actions to put things right:
reimburse Mr E £300.40
Simple interest at 8% each year should be added to this payment from the 16 February 2021 
until the date of settlement. 
Pay Mr E £100 for the distress and inconvenience theyve caused. 
AWP P&C SA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them 
Mr E accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
*If AWP P&C SA consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr E how much theyve taken off. They should 
also give Mr E a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. AWP P&C SA must take the actions 
detailed in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman