DRN-1597843
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policy taken out with a mortgage. Mr and Mrs H say that Santander UK Plc mis-sold the 
policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H bought the policy when they took out a mortgage in November 2005. The 
policy wouldve provided cover for Mr H only, and only in the event he wasnt working due to 
accident or sickness. The policy did not provide unemployment cover. The policy cost 
£11.36 each month and in the event of a successful claim wouldve paid a monthly benefit of 
£349 for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should succeed. She said that Santander 
shouldnt have sold the policy to Mr and Mrs H without highlighting the significant policy 
exclusions relating to pre-existing medical conditions.
Santander disagreed so the complaint comes to me to decide. It acknowledges that Mr H 
may have had a medical condition  it says he told the bank he had one, but it says in the 
absence of any details or dates, it couldnt uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs H and Santander say and Ive decided to uphold this 
complaint because I dont think that Santander met all of Mr and Mrs Hs information needs  
in particular about the exclusions relating to pre-existing medical conditions. And I think they 
wouldve decided against buying the policy if this had been done.
Mr H had a medical condition, the details of which are known to all parties. And hes 
provided detailed testimony about this condition and how its affected him since it was first 
diagnosed in 1965. In his testimony to this Service, he told us about the regularity of his 
condition; the way its developed over the years; the medication he takes; the regular 
appointments he has with his doctor; and the instances hes been hospitalised because of it. 
His testimony has been detailed and it has been consistent from the outset, and because of 
this, I find it plausible and persuasive.
Ive read the relevant section of the policy document very carefully and I dont agree with 
Santander. The section on exclusions says We will not pay the monthly benefit if your 
disability arises fromany condition you had at the start date, or any condition for which you 
received treatment or advice during the 12 months before the start date. We will not pay claims for an accident or sickness resulting from a pre-existing medical condition... 
Mr and Mrs H say that the sale took place in a branch. I dont know what was discussed 
during this meeting, but there isnt sufficient evidence for me to conclude that this very 
significant exclusion was highlighted or discussed. Because of this, I dont think it wouldve 
been clear to him that he wouldve been affected by specific policy exclusions regarding his 
pre-existing medical condition. And the policy booklet only makes reference to the 
exclusions half-way through the brochure in relatively small print. There is no evidence to 
suggest this was highlighted in any way for Mr and Mrs H or drawn to their attention when 
they decided to take the policy out.
Ive considered that it was Mr and Mrs Hs responsibility to consider suitability; however, it 
was still Santanders responsibility to ensure that the information was sufficiently clear and 
that any limitations or exclusions that might be significant to Mr and Mrs H were pointed out 
so that they could make an informed choice. I dont think this information was sufficiently 
drawn to Mr and Mrs Hs attention and if it had been, he would, more likely than not, have 
refused the policy.
I say this because Im satisfied that Mr Hs condition wouldnt have been covered under the 
terms of Santanders policy. And as a condition requiring ongoing treatment and medication, 
I think Mr H wouldve felt this to be the most likely cause of him having time off work at that 
time and yet the policy would not have covered him for this. I believe this wouldve mattered 
to him and that if better information had been provided, he wouldnt have thought the policy 
was good value as the benefits would have been severely limited for him.
In summary, I dont think that Mr and Mrs H wouldve purchased the MPPI policy, if they had 
been given sufficiently clear and fair information about its exclusions. Ive noted all of 
Santanders submissions but these do not alter my conclusions. It follows that I uphold this 
complaint.
Putting things right
Santander UK Plc should put Mr and Mrs H in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt 
taken out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and 
Santander UK Plc should:
 
         Pay Mr and Mrs H the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
 
         Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they gets it back. 
The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
 
         If Mr and Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander UK Plc can 
take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander U Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander UK Plc must give Mr and Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
they ask for one.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I determine this complaint in favour of Mr and Mrs H. I require 
Santander UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs H fair compensation in accordance with the calculation 
of redress I have set out above. I make no further award against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman