DRN-2444323
The complaint
Ms B complains about the way that St Andrews Insurance Plc dealt with her home 
insurance claim for water damage. 
What happened
In October 2019 Ms B discovered a leak from her radiator. She called out a plumber who 
advised that there were holes in the copper piping in the floor. He advised her that the pipes 
hadnt been properly lagged before setting them in concrete and that all the pipework had 
corroded and needed replacing. At the same time Ms B made a claim to St Andrews. She 
insists that she was told not to instruct her plumber to carry out repairs to the pipework, 
although agrees that she was told that St Andrews wouldnt pay to repair the actual 
pipework. Ms B made further contact with St Andrews in December 2019. Her plumber had 
discovered a further leak and she had agreed that he would carry out further repairs to the 
pipework. St Andrews agreed to appoint a Personal Claims Consultant (PCC) who came out 
to see her in late January 2020. 
Ms B says she wasnt offered alternative accommodation at the time despite the house 
being uninhabitable. The PCC says he discussed this with her but because she had an 
elderly dog she opted to remain in her home. He appointed contractors to carry out leak 
detection because it appeared there were more leaks. He explained to Ms B that there might 
be a problem with the damp proof membrane (DPM) which wouldnt be covered by the 
insurance. The leak detection company advised a drying programme which consisted of 
stripping out the kitchen units and plaster from the walls. Ms B complained that the company 
had left an inadequately covered trench in the kitchen which her dog had fallen into.
A further leak occurred on the water supply and the company carried out further leak 
detection. In March 2020 strip-out took place and dehumidifiers were installed. A further leak 
was then discovered and the work had to be put on hold for further drying to take place. 
When Ms Bs plumber came out again to do the relaying of the pipes the boiler went wrong 
and Ms B enquired whether St Andrews would pay for that. It explained that this didnt come 
under the cover for water damage. Ms B pointed out that shed been without cooking and 
washing facilities and asked for reimbursement of a hot plate, espresso maker, laundrette 
costs and the cost of takeaway meals. St Andrews agreed to pay for those.
In its final response letter to Ms Bs complaint in May 2020, St Andrews agreed that Ms B 
had been subject to delays and poor living conditions and agreed to pay her compensation 
of £150.
On referral to this service our investigator thought that the option of alternative 
accommodation hadnt been explained properly to Ms B especially given her having to live in 
a stripped out property for three months. He proposed that St Andrews pay a further £600 
compensation.
St Andrews agreed to this. Ms B did not  she said that because St Andrews had told her 
not to get her plumber in to do the pipe repairs the property had suffered a lot more from the 
consequences of the leaks. She also felt the PCC hadnt been fair to her in the way he had 
handled the claim. She felt that St Andrews should pay her compensation equivalent to the 
amount it had saved in not paying for alternative accommodation.
Our investigator explained that there was no evidence that St Andrews told her not to get 
the pipes repaired, it told her on several occasions that this was her responsibility. He also 
said that we wouldnt award compensation on the basis she proposed.
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
alternative accommodation
Ms B was entitled to alternative accommodation under the terms of the policy, this would 
have included domestic pets. During the period of stripping out and drying the home was 
uninhabitable, she had no access to cooking facilities and she just had access to a small 
sink in a bathroom. The PCC advised that he spoke to Ms B about this on his visit in January 
2020 and she opted to stay in her own home. But she says that was because she didnt 
realise that it could have covered her dog as well. And the disruption caused by several 
large dehumidifiers is something that clearly she shouldve been warned about.
I appreciate that accommodation which includes pets can be difficult to find on a short term 
basis. But it doesnt appear that St Andrews made any attempts to find such 
accommodation. It has admitted its failings in that respect. The PCC did offer to pay to have 
her dog placed in kennels, but Ms B has explained that her elderly dog wouldnt have been 
able to cope with that and perhaps that was a bit insensitive. 
Im aware that St Andrews paid for takeaway meals and the cost of a hot plate and espresso 
maker, but that was after she had bought the items and asked if it would pay for them. I dont 
think it properly explained the options to Ms B in the event that alternative accommodation 
was either not available or she opted to stay in the home. And Ms B staying in her home with 
the noise dust and disturbance caused by the drying process for three months caused her a 
lot of stress and upset.
paying for the pipes to be repaired
The pipework in Ms Bs home proved to be very difficult to repair. A number of leaks arose 
and her plumber advised having the whole system renewed. Ms B says that on at least three 
different occasions she asked St Andrews then the contractors whether she should get her 
plumber out to repair the pipes and she was told not to. That doesnt accord with the email 
exchanges Ive seen. On each occasion that new leaks arose she was told that the repair of 
the pipes was her responsibility and she had to pay for this herself. It certainly wouldnt make 
sense for her to be told that she had to pay for the repairs and then tell her not to carry them 
out. For example after the first leak it certainly appears that it was left that Ms B would get 
the leak repaired and then contact St Andrews which explains the initial delay in the PCC 
being appointed.
On other occasions Ms B enquired about payment for the work and after again being told 
St Andrews wouldnt fund this, indicated that she would be making a complaint about it. I am 
aware that Ms B was also in contact with her home emergency insurers who may have told 
her that carrying out repairs to the boiler could invalidate the warranty. But that cover is 
provided by a different insurer. Unfortunately there are no telephone records of Ms Bs calls with the PCC or St Andrews but again I dont think it likely that it would have told her not to 
get the work done in a phone call and follow this up with an email telling her it was her 
responsibility.
delays 
St Andrews had noted there were some delays. However for the most part these were 
caused by the discovery of new leaks which caused the work to be put back. It took five 
weeks before the PCC came out to see her after she reported back in December 2019, 
which was a little long, given that she had reported the leak firstly in October.
conduct of PCC
Ms B was upset with what she perceived to be the conduct of the PCC; she felt he was 
incompetent and behaved badly towards her. He only came out on one occasion. Its difficult 
for me to view such a complaint as clearly only Ms B and the PCC were present. Ive already 
said he should have discussed alternative accommodation with her. And living in such 
conditions for three months must have been difficult for Ms B. But I havent found that the 
PCC told her not to carry out repairs to the pipes, nor that the strip out and drying were 
unnecessary, From the correspondence it appears that he agreed to pay Ms Bs various 
costs when she asked for them. I cant say that Ive seen any evidence that Ms Bs 
perception that he was incompetent was right. 
Putting things right
As our investigator explained, we dont award compensation on the basis of what the insurer 
might have paid, had Ms B moved into alternative accommodation, which we dont know 
would have been available any way. For the issues I have found and for the distress and 
inconvenience this caused Ms B, I think a payment of £750 is fair and reasonable 
compensation. St Andrews has paid £150, so it needs to pay to Ms B a further £600. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require St Andrew's Insurance Plc to pay compensation in 
accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman