DRN-2495543
The complaint
Mr S says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr S bought the PPI in 1997 whilst applying for a new credit card account. Our adjudicator 
who looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr S disagrees with the adjudicator. The complaint has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint.
Mr S says the PPI was added without him being told much about it. But I was sent a copy of 
his credit card application and I can see the form gave an obvious choice to either have or 
not have PPI. Mr S selected the box to add the PPI and he signed the form. 
Theres no dispute he was sold PPI, and so the charges would have shown up on Mr Ss 
credit card account statements. As he kept the policy going for several years, this further 
implies the PPI was attached to his account at his direction. I think if hed realised, for 
example, that hed made a mistake, there was time for him to contact Barclays to ask what 
the charges were for.
So, I think the correct consent was obtained for the PPI to be added.
Barclays says it was a branch application where the PPI would have probably been 
recommended to him. This means Barclays had an additional duty to ensure this type of 
cover was suitable for him. Overall, I think it probably was.
This is because Ive looked at Mr Ss situation. I think he was eligible for the cover and not 
caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. Looking at the 
work he did, I think any sickness protection he had with his job would have been quite 
moderate. On the other hand, the PPI policy would have paid out 10% of his outstanding 
credit card balance for up to a year if hed needed to claim. This would have been in addition 
to any other means he had at that time. I also see that the cost was broadly around 70p per 
£100 outstanding on the card, which I think would have been affordable for Mr S.
I think this policy was suitable for him.
Barclays still needed to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading so Mr S 
could make an informed choice about whether or not to go ahead and buy the PPI. The 
documentation Mr S used appears to have included some information about the PPI policy 
included with it, but Mr S would have also discussed the options with an adviser. I therefore 
think he probably had enough information to decide what he wanted to do. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr S, but I think the evidence shows he chose the policy and 
would have known it wasnt something he needed to have. This means Im not upholding his 
mis-sale complaint.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman