DRN-1633778
The complaint
Mrs G and Mr H say Bank of Scotland plc, who were trading at the time as Halifax mis-sold 
them a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. For simplicity, Ill refer to the 
business as Halifax for the majority of the rest of this decision. 
What happened
Mrs G and Mr H took out a regular premium PPI policy with a mortgage in 1992. The policy 
covered both Mrs G and Mr H against accident, sickness, and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs G and Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators 
findings, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs G and Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs G and Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to get the consent of Mrs G and Mr Hs to take the policy and make it clear they 
had a choice to take the policy. Its not straightforward trying to decide on cases when there 
are no documents available from the time of the sale. Its maybe not surprising that there is 
little documentation from the time of the sale as these events happened over 27 years ago. 
Where there isnt much evidence for me to consider, I need to make my decision based on a 
balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider what I do have, look at what both sides 
have said, and make a decision based on what I think most likely happened. 
Given how much time has passed in this case since the sale, I havent seen sufficient 
evidence to be able to uphold the complaint that Halifax failed to secure Mrs G and Mr Hs 
consent to the PPI or failed to give them a choice about taking the policy. So, having 
considered all the submissions I have received in this case, I think its more likely that Halifax 
wouldve made Mrs G and Mr H aware that the PPI was optional and that they chose to take 
it.
Both parties told us that the policy was recommended to Mrs G and Mr H. This means it 
needed to take reasonable steps to ensure the policy was suitable for them. Based on what I 
know of the policys terms and conditions and their circumstances, I dont think the 
recommendation was unsuitable. I say this because Mrs G and Mr H were both eligible for 
the policy and they werent affected by any of the limitations of the policy  such as those 
affecting self-employed people or those with pre-existing medical conditions. 
And I think they had a need for the policy. I say this because Mrs G and Mr H both said their 
initial sick pay would have been good initially, but it would have dropped significantly after 6 
months. And they have told us that they had modest other means they could utilise in that 
circumstance, such that they may have had to rely on their families for whatever help they 
may have been in a position to offer them at such a time. 
But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to whatever benefits Mrs G and Mr H had, and 
for up to 24 months in the event that ill health or accident prevented them from working. So, 
having thought about all of this and considering the potentially serious consequences of 
defaulting on a loan secured on your home, I think Mrs G and Mr H wouldve still had some 
use for the policy. 
Halifax also had to give clear enough information so that Mrs G and Mr H could decide for 
themselves whether or not they wanted the policy. Its possible that Halifax couldve given 
Mrs G and Mr H clearer information about the policy cost. But having thought about this, and 
for the same reasons that led me to find that the policy was not unsuitable for them, I think 
its unlikely that better information wouldve prompted them to make a different decision 
about taking the policy.
So, having considered everything, I cant safely say that Mrs G and Mr H lost out as a result 
of anything Halifax mightve done wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs G and Mr Hs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman