DRN-4162430
The complaint
Mr S complains American Express Service Europe Limited (Amex) failed to respond to 
several written communications about his credit card accounts.
What happened
Mr S says he is a long-standing customer of Amex having held two credit card accounts with 
them. Mr S says he wrote to Amex requesting it to transfer the accrued points from one 
credit card account (card A) to another (card B). Additionally, Mr S says he also asked Amex 
to increase his credit limit on card B and arrange for an additional credit card to be issued, 
but despite writing on a number of occasions, Amex failed to respond. Mr S says Amex 
finally sent him a letter enclosing a cheque for the balance of card A, that he asked to be 
closed, but without any accruing interest. 
Mr S says this matter has caused him stress and worry and wants Amex to address the 
points he raised in the various letters he sent and in future to promptly deal with his requests 
and provide the correct departments address details, rather than a generic one. 
Amex says it isnt possible to transfer reward points from one type of credit card account to 
another as card A was points based and card b was a cashback card. Amex says it has no 
record of any letters requesting a credit card limit increase nor for an additional card to be 
issued. Amex says card A was closed as requested in mid-July 2022 and a balance sent by 
cheque. Amex says it agrees it didnt respond to a letter Mr S sent in February 2023 and 
have offered £50 by way of an apology. 
Mr S wasnt happy with Amexs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Amex had carried out Mr Ss instructions to close card A but agreed it wasnt 
possible for Amex to transfer the reward points across different products, in line with its 
policy. The investigator felt Amex had carried out Mr Ss request to close card A and sent 
this by cheque as it hadnt received the validation documents it had requested.
The investigator went on to say Amex couldnt be held responsible for any letters Mr S may 
have sent and it hadnt received in the postal system. The investigator suggested Mr S might 
want to communicate with Amex via a website link or phone in future to avoid any future 
problems of this sort. The investigator advised that Mr Ss card B account was still 
operational and hadnt been cancelled as he thought, it was a matter that his credit card had 
been declined above the contactless limit causing the confusion. The investigator felt Amexs 
offer of £50 was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr S to have written to Amex on several 
occasions and not to have received a reply. When looking at this complaint I will consider if 
Amex have now properly dealt with the issues Mr S raised and if there was anything more it 
could have done here. 
The details of this complaint are well documented and known to both parties, so I see no 
point reiterating what has already been detailed by the investigator in her view and referred 
to under what happened. What is important here is that Mr S feels Amex didnt deal with 
his various requests in a timely manner or respond to several letters he had sent to them 
over some months spanning from June 2022 to October 2022. In particular his requests for 
card A to be closed and his accrued reward points to be transferred to card B and his limit to 
be increased along with an additional credit card to be issued.  
As the investigator and Amex have explained it isnt possible for the rewards earned on one 
credit card product to be transferred to another type of credit card that Mr S held, and Im 
satisfied thats reasonable as card A was a points reward card and card B was a cash back 
type of product. I can see Amex did send Mr S the balance remaining on credit card A in 
October 2022, some months after Mr S had requested it. While this did take longer than Mr 
S expected, I have seen a letter addressed to Mr S dated 20 July 2022 from Amex where it 
asked for further documentation in order to process the balance on the credit card A 
account. This letter doesnt appear to have been acknowledged by Mr S and so in October 
2022 Amex sent the balance of £106.30 by way of cheque to him. 
Amex have also explained to Mr S card B wasnt cancelled as hed thought  it seems a 
transaction was simply declined at a time he attempted a contactless payment above the 
£100 ceiling, but this was corrected when Mr S used chip and pin to authorise it. 
Without trying to minimise the frustration caused by the non-response to the letters Mr S 
says he sent, Amex have explained that it has no record of some of the other letters Mr S 
says he wrote to them. Its not possible to know whether these letters ever arrived or not or 
may have been lost in Amexs internal post, but on balance Im satisfied this wasnt a matter 
of Amex ignoring his request, more that in all likelihood, the letters werent received by the 
correct departments within Amex. 
While I have some sympathy with Mr Ss situation, Im not persuaded Amex deliberately 
chose to ignore Mr Ss various requests and it may be helpful here going forward, for Mr S to 
consider using the online link provided by the investigator in her view, as a more convenient 
way for him to communicate with Amex- or directly by webchat or telephone. 
If Mr S is still looking to increase his credit limit and add an additional card he should contact 
Amex directly, perhaps using the contact details in Amexs final response letter to him. 
I understand Amex have accepted that it perhaps should have acknowledged Mr Ss letter in 
February 2023, even though this was post his complaint to this service and was being 
investigated at that time. Amex have offered Mr S £50 by way of apology for this which I am 
satisfied is a reasonable offer, and I will leave it with Mr S to decide if he now wishes to 
accept this. 
While Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Amex. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman