DRN-1778905
 
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy Monzo Bank Ltd have charged him a fee for going into an unarranged 
overdraft.
What happened
Mr G has an online digital banking account with Monzo. And in early February 2020 he made 
a debit card payment of £61.24 to pay a bill. Mr G said he wasnt aware of any problems with 
the payment. And had been told by the company, Ill call S, that the payment had been 
made. He said he continued to use his account. But several days later the same payment 
was taken out of his account putting him into an unarranged overdraft. And Monzo charged 
him for this happening.
Mr G complained to Monzo, who said the first attempted payment had been returned through 
the card providers clearing system. They said the payment was put back into Mr Gs 
account. But Mr G had taken money from his account so that when the request for payment 
was made a second time, Mr G no longer had enough funds in his account. This caused him 
to go into an unarranged overdraft. And they charged him an unarranged overdraft fee of 
£2.50.
Mr G wasnt happy with this response as he said it was a banking error that had caused him 
to go into an overdraft. He said Monzo should clear the overdraft balance, refund any 
charges. And compensate him £100 for the trouble and upset caused. He referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator said there hadnt been a banking error. The payment had been returned by 
Mr Gs card provider. And Monzo had clearly shown on Mr Gs statement that the payment 
hadnt been accepted. She didnt ask Monzo to do anything differently.
Mr G didnt agree and has asked an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Gs frustration as he thought hed made a successful payment to S 
and that the payment not being accepted was because of a banking error by Monzo. 
But, Mr G made his payment using his debit card and so its the card scheme operators who 
set the rules for card issuers (Monzo) and merchants (S) to follow. So, in reaching my 
decisions Im wont be commenting on what the card scheme operator or the merchant did. I 
will determine whether Monzo acted fairly and reasonably in what they did.When a payment is made using a card there are several actions that follow between the card 
provider, card issuer and the merchant before the payment is successfully completed. And 
for Mr Gs payment the full cycle wasnt completed so the payment wasnt cleared. 
 Monzo is an online digital bank. And Mr G has a banking app on his mobile phone which 
lets him keep track of his day to day banking. I can see the payment £61.34 was returned to 
his Monzo account four days after Mr G initially made the payment. The returned payment 
was highlighted (green) to show this was a payment into the account and it also shows the 
payment was from S.
And later that day Mr G moved an amount into his Rainy Day pot and afterwards on the 
same day returned this amount back into his account and withdrew it using an ATM facility. 
Two days later the payment of £61.34 was successfully completed and paid to S. But 
because of the funds Mr G had removed at the ATM he no longer had enough money in his 
account to cover this payment. And so, he went into an unarranged overdraft.
An unarranged overdraft is where the bank allows its customer to spend more than the 
amount in the account without agreeing this in advance. But this does generally come at a 
cost, for Monzo customers at the time Mr G went into his overdraft this was calculated at 50 
pence per day while the account remained overdrawn.
I can see Mr G was regularly using his account on the day the reversed payment went into it. 
And he was moving money around which I think shows he was able to see his account and 
was aware what his balance was. The green amount matched precisely the payment Mr G 
had only recently made to S. And his balance would have been higher than it should have 
been if the payment to S had been successfully made. Im satisfied that the amount and 
origin of the reversed payment was clear for Mr G to see. And I think shows the payment to 
S hadnt been taken. 
So, I think Monzo has acted fairly and reasonably. It was the card providers process which 
didnt accept the payment. And I cant hold them responsible for the payment being returned 
and for Mr G not having enough funds in his account when the payment was finally taken.
By Mr G not having enough funds, his account went into an unarranged overdraft for five 
days. Monzo charged Mr G a fee of £2.50. As outlined above this amount is in line with their 
terms and conditions.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman