DRN-3345082
The complaint
Mr R complains Santander UK Plc has refused to honour a claim he brought under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to vinyl flooring purchased on his 
credit card.
What happened
Mr R used his Santander credit card to buy some wood-effect vinyl flooring planks from the 
website of a supplier (L). He made two orders on the website. One order cost £373.60 
including VAT and delivery, and was made up of 8 packs of flooring costing £34.75 each 
(excluding VAT). The other order cost £447.26 including VAT and delivery, and was made 
up of 12 packs of flooring costing £31.06 per pack (excluding VAT). There were some issues 
with damaged packs being delivered, for which L provided a partial refund of £86.
The flooring was laid and a few weeks later, after an event at his home where he had a large 
number of guests, Mr R noticed it was damaged. He reported this to L, who declined to do 
anything about it, stating it was accidental damage. Mr R didnt accept this  he said the 
flooring had been advertised as being scratch-resistant but it was not, and that a guarantee 
was not being honoured. After not getting any further with L, he contacted Santander to raise 
a claim under section 75 of the CCA.
Santander investigated the claim, and contacted L for their side of the story. L said they had 
tried to replicate the damage on the same type of flooring with ordinary items which might 
come into contact with and scratch a floor, including keys and a stiletto heel, but they 
couldnt. They maintained the scratches had been caused by accidental damage and that it 
would have taken incredible force to damage the floor. Santander requested Mr R obtain 
an independent opinion regarding the flooring but he was unable to get this. He restarted 
negotiations with L at around this time and accepted an offer of a £150 part-refund of the 
cost of the flooring to settle the matter as a gesture of goodwill, after rejecting options which 
were unsuitable, such as being sent replacement floor planks free of charge, which he said 
would have been impractical to fit. 
Santander declined Mr Rs section 75 claim due to lack of evidence of the flooring being 
defective. Mr R complained about this decision, but Santander would not change it. 
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr R referred the complaint to this service for an 
independent assessment.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She came to the conclusion that Mr Rs 
purchases of flooring were not covered by Section 75 of the CCA. This was because he had 
bought multiple packs of flooring with a price per pack below the threshold at which section 
75 would begin to apply. She then went on to consider whether section 56 of the CCA, which 
did not have such a threshold, would allow Mr R to make a claim instead. She concluded 
that it did not, because section 56 only covered misrepresentation and Mr R had not 
purchased the flooring due to a misrepresentation by L. While our investigator thought L had 
made false statements in the way it had described the flooring (that it was scratch-proof), 
she thought the evidence suggested Mr R had not believed these statements in a literal 
sense, and he hadnt relied on them. Our investigator didnt think it likely that Santander 
would have succeeded in a chargeback against L, so she concluded it would have been 
unlikely the bank could have obtained a refund for him via this route.
Mr R disagreed with the investigator. He said L had advertised the flooring as scratchproof, 
which had been false. It was the falsity of the advertising which was important, not what he 
had perceived it to mean. Additionally, L had said the flooring had a 30 year guarantee but 
this was also a misrepresentation.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under certain circumstances when a person has paid for goods or services using a credit 
card, and something has gone wrong with their purchase, they are able to approach their 
credit card provider for assistance. This assistance can be given on a voluntary basis 
through the interbank dispute resolution process administered by the card schemes known 
as chargeback, or the card provider may have a legal obligation to consider a claim under 
the principles of connected lender liability. It is this second avenue of assistance which is the 
focus of Mr Rs case.
There are three sections of the CCA which give rise to connected lender liability. The most 
well-known is section 75 of the CCA, which covers breaches of contract and 
misrepresentations made by the supplier of goods or services, so long as certain technical 
criteria have been met. Section 75A covers breaches of contract only, but can apply to 
higher value purchases than section 75 and does not apply to credit cards. Section 56, 
broadly speaking, covers misrepresentations, but with no restrictions as to the value of the 
purchase.
Mr R has not specifically disagreed with our investigators conclusions on the questions of 
chargeback and whether section 75 applies, so I will cover these only briefly in this section.
I agree with our investigators findings regarding Santanders chances of succeeding at a 
chargeback. While a consumer cannot require their card provider to attempt a chargeback, I 
would generally expect them to attempt a chargeback where this would have a reasonable 
prospect of succeeding. It is ultimately a process which can be contested by the other side, 
and it was apparent from Ls communications with Santander that it would be likely to 
oppose a chargeback. Other peculiarities of the chargeback process which would have 
made this an impractical means of recovering any funds for Mr R include the fact that hed 
most likely have been required to return the flooring to L before a chargeback could be 
attempted.
Turning to the matter of section 75, this only provides protection for items with a price of 
more than £100. Looking at the way the flooring was presented for sale on Ls website, its 
apparent it was sold and priced by the pack. A buyer inputs the area of floor they need to 
cover, and the website recommends a number of packs to buy, which can then be adjusted 
by the buyer. So although the invoices for Mr Rs purchases came to more than £100, I think 
its fair to say that in reality he was buying a larger number of packs each costing under the 
amount at which section 75 would begin to apply. Ultimately, I dont think section 75 of the 
CCA applies to his purchase for this reason.
Section 56 of the CCA does apply to Mr Rs purchases. I will not go into the technical details 
as its not necessary, but in short it allows Mr R to treat Santander as being responsible for any misrepresentations made by L in the run-up to him paying for the flooring using his credit 
card. 
Was there a misrepresentation?
Mr R has argued that L misrepresented two things to him  the qualities of the flooring and 
the warranty which applies to it. 
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces someone to enter a contract 
and causes them a loss. Importantly, the person needs to have relied on the false statement 
in making their decision, for them to have a claim for misrepresentation.
On its website, L described the flooring as scratchproof and having a guarantee of 30 
years. To say the flooring is scratchproof in the sense of it being completely impervious to 
scratches would be an obviously untrue statement. It seems to be a marketing exaggeration 
and I doubt most people would take it literally. And, like our investigator, I dont think Mr R 
did. I think he understood it to mean that the floor was very resistant to scratches. This is the 
kind of language he used when complaining about the flooring to L and to Santander. He did 
not describe is as being advertised as scratchproof; he described it as scratch resistant. I 
think he relied on the statement as meaning the flooring was a type which was highly 
resistant to scratches.
It's difficult to determine whether it was untrue for L to state the model of flooring Mr R 
bought was highly resistant to scratches. Theres no doubt the flooring Mr R had installed 
has become scratched, but that does not mean it was not highly scratch resistant. All thats 
known about how the flooring came to be scratched was that there was an event at Mr Rs 
home with a large number of guests, and the damage was noticed afterwards. There could 
be a number of possible scenarios:
The flooring was damaged due to normal traffic or use and was not scratch-resistant 
as advertised because the scratched planks were defective.
The flooring was damaged due to normal traffic or use and was not scratch-resistant 
as advertised because the type of flooring is not made of scratch-resistant material.
The flooring was scratch-resistant as advertised, but was damaged by something 
which it wouldnt reasonably have been expected to withstand, like a fragment of 
glass in the sole of a shoe, or heavy furniture being moved.
Only the second of the three scenarios above would lead to Mr R having a valid claim 
against Santander under section 56 of the CCA for a misrepresentation by L. The first would 
not be covered as supplying defective flooring would be a breach of contract, not a 
misrepresentation. The third would be neither a breach of contract nor a misrepresentation.
Unfortunately, theres not enough evidence to show that the second of the scenarios is what 
most likely happened. I appreciate Mr R has tried to obtain evidence to prove his case and 
this has turned out to be fruitless, but ultimately I cant conclude the flooring must have been 
misrepresented.
On the question of the warranty or guarantee, L did state on its website that the flooring 
came with a 30-year guarantee. There does appear to be a lack of specifics regarding the 
guarantee, but Ive not been shown anything which would suggest the statement on the 
website was inaccurate or that there isnt a genuine guarantee in place. On the contrary, Ls 
offers to provide replacement flooring planks are broadly in line with how many product 
guarantees operate. Theres not evidence, in my view, to suggest the guarantee has been misrepresented.
Because my conclusion is that neither the flooring nor the guarantee has been 
misrepresented, I dont think Mr R can require Santander to take any action under its 
potential liability under section 56. So the bank did not behave unreasonably or unfairly by 
declining to help him further.
Other observations
I note Mr R agreed a settlement over email with L, that he would accept £150 to effectively 
draw a line under the matter. For whatever reason, it seems he later changed his mind. Had 
I been able to conclude there had been a misrepresentation then this could have presented 
a further obstacle to Mr R pursuing compensation from Santander. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman