DRN-2675780
The complaint
Ms and Mr Y complain that Coventry Building Society (CBS) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside their mortgage in 2002. 
What happened
The mortgage was a joint mortgage, but the PPI was set up to cover only Mr Y. In the event 
that Mr Y had an accident, was too sick to work or lost his job, the policy could have paid out 
£550 towards Ms and Mr Ys mortgage repayments every month for a maximum of 12 
months. At the point of sale, I understand the premiums were £28.59 per month. 
Our adjudicator initially thought the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think CBS had 
done enough to draw the main features of the policy to Ms and Mr Ys attention. And she 
also thought that they wouldnt have taken the cover out if CBS had told them everything it 
should have done. She highlighted that Mr Y had an income security policy through his 
employer and that Ms and Mr Y most likely had savings when the cover was sold. 
CBS did not agree with what our adjudicator said. It said that in respect of the permanent 
health insurance policyincome security policy, Mr Y would have to be permanently and 
totally disabled before he could make a successful claim, and that he may have to 
demonstrate he could not undertake specified daily living tasks before he could make a 
successful claim. 
Another of our adjudicators considered the matter and upon that reconsideration, his view 
was that the complaint should not be upheld.
 
Ms and Mr Y disagreed with that view. In summary, they said: 
Their existing cover would have increased by 5% per year and not just for the first 
year as our adjudicator had stated; 
CBS held itself out as advising about PPI; 
CBS did not go out of its way to ensure Ms and Mr Y knew the cover was optional 
and our adjudicator should not have assumed that to be the case;  
The policy would not have provided a useful benefit because of the permanent health 
insurance policy stated above and Ms and Mr Ys existing savings. 
As Ms and Mr Y are not in agreement with our adjudicators recommendation, the matter has 
been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case. 
I am sorry to disappoint Ms and Mr Y, but I havent upheld this complaint. Ill explain why 
below. 
The first thing for me to establish in this matter is how the PPI came to be sold. Ive had the 
benefit of some of the electronic information CBS retained in this matter. I can see that Ms 
and Mr Y applied for their mortgage by telephone at some point in January 2002 and the 
notes from CBS at that stage show cover not required by Ms and Mr Y. So, it looks as 
though Ms and Mr Y had told CBS they did not want any insurance when they made their 
initial application.
However, I can also see from those notes that on 8 February 2002, Ms and Mr Y were in 
contact with CBS by telephone and they said they wanted a quote and application form for 
PPI to cover their new mortgage. I can see an application form was sent out at around that 
time, which was completed by Mr Y on 14 February 2002 and appears to have been 
received by CBS shortly thereafter. The start date of the mortgage was 19 February 2002.  
Ive given careful thought as to whether it would have been clear to Ms and Mr Y that the PPI 
was optional and they didnt have to take it out if they didnt want it. Ms and Mr Y declined 
cover when they initially made their mortgage application, which appears to have proceeded 
regardless. Im satisfied they would have known they didnt have to take the cover out 
because they refused it in the first instance. 
After refusing cover initially, they then contacted CBS ostensibly of their own volition shortly 
before the completion date and an application was then made. I cant reasonably say they 
didnt know they had a choice about whether to take the cover out because it only proceeded 
after an application was instigated by Ms and Mr Y. 
As PPI appears to have been sold a little time after the initial mortgage application was 
made and Ms and Mr Y were sent an application form to complete, this most likely wasnt an 
advised sale. I cant say CBS held itself out as advising Ms and Mr Y to take PPI when it 
effectively sent them an application pack for the cover some time after the mortgage 
application had been made. The application form would have been completed by Ms and Mr 
Y in their own time and at their own pace and the evidence does not suggest any further 
contact between the parties in respect of PPI after the application form was requested on 8 
February 2002 until the policy was incepted. 
So CBS didnt have to check the cover was suitable for Ms and Mr Y. Nevertheless, CBS still 
had to give them enough information about the cover so they could decide for themselves 
whether it was a good fit for their needs. 
Ive had the benefit of seeing the PPI application and the information similar to that which 
accompanied that form. I think the cost of the cover was most likely set out relatively clearly 
in a prominent table alongside the different options for cover. Ms and Mr Y selected an 
accident, sickness and unemployment policy and entered the amount of cover they required. 
Even if I am wrong on that point and the information wasnt as clear as it should have been, I 
dont think Ms and Mr Y would have acted differently even if they had been told more about 
the cover. 
Ive given careful thought to the additional policy Mr Y had at the relevant time. I can see that 
it would have paid out only in the event of Mr Ys continuous total disability. It appears to 
me that there could be many situations in which a person may well be off sick from work for 
a prolonged period, but not have a total disability. And the income security policy would not 
have paid out if Mr Y was made redundant. I appreciate that Mr Y had full sick pay for six months, but the PPI would have lasted for 
longer than that sick pay. Whilst he told us about being entitled to half pay for an 
extraordinarily long period of time, I think PPI could have been of use because Ms and Mr Y 
could have used that half pay towards their other essential expenditure without their home 
being put at risk. I do stress that the mortgage was secured on their home and the 
consequences if they fell behind with their mortgage repayments could have been 
significant.
 
I understand Mr Y was in good health at the time the policy was sold and so I dont think he 
would have been affected by any of the exclusions about medical conditions. And I havent 
seen anything else that was unusual about his circumstances that would have stopped him 
from being able to make a successful claim if he needed to. 
Taking everything in the round, I think Ms and Mr Y wanted PPI as shown by their call to 
CBS to request a policy after initially declining that cover. I can see how the PPI could have 
been useful to them if Mr Y was out of work. Accordingly, I dont think Ms and Mr Y would 
have acted differently even if CBS had given them more or better information about the 
cover. 
As I said above, I am sorry to disappoint Ms and Mr Y, but Im afraid for the reasons set out 
above, I havent upheld the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and Coventry Building Society does not have to take any further 
action in respect of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman