DRN-3286895
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Calpe insurance Company Limited unfairly turned down a claim 
on her motor insurance policy.
In bringing this complaint Mrs Ms been represented by her son, Mr A. So, save for where I 
feel I need to refer to his actions or comments explicitly, reference to Mrs M includes Mr As 
remarks.
Reference to Calpe includes its agents.
What happened
Mr A reported the theft of Mrs Ms car, from outside her friends house, to both the police and 
Calpe. Calpe instructed external investigators to look into the theft. The investigators had 
some concerns about discrepancies in the account of the theft. They also asked Mrs M for 
proof of purchase of the car. Mrs M said she bought the car from Mr A for a sale price of 
£14,000. The investigators recorded that she said she paid an initial deposit with an informal 
agreement between the two of them for her to pay the rest in instalments. She and Mr A both 
said that payments were made in cash and they had no way of showing the transactions 
through bank accounts etc.
After many months of looking into the claim, Calpe refused to pay it. Calpe said it didn't 
believe that Mrs M had an insurable interest in the stolen car and that there were 
inconsistencies and discrepancies in the accounts of the theft. Mrs M brought her complaint 
about that to us.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 January 2022. For ease Ive copied the relevant extract 
below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurable (financial) interest
Calpe eventually turned down Mrs Ms claim because it said that she didn't have a financial 
interest in the car. It might help if I explain that for a contract of insurance (a policy) to be 
valid, the policyholder must have whats known as an insurable interest in the item(s) insured 
(although I note Calpe has referred to this is a financial rather than insurable interest in its 
letters to Mrs M). In other words it has to be the policyholder themselves  rather than 
someone else  that suffers the loss in the event of a claim like a theft arising. So if Mrs M 
didn't have some form of financial stake in the car, then her policy wouldn't be valid and 
Calpe could fairly turn down her claim.
Calpe noted that it was Mr A, not Mrs M, who had originally bought the car. Hed taken out a 
finance agreement in order to do so and he hadn't paid off that finance agreement. So he 
was still responsible to pay it at the time Mrs M insured the car. Calpe wasn't convinced by 
Mrs Ms or Mr As arguments that Mrs M had paid cash to Mr A to buy the car but as those 
payments hadn't gone through any banking system they couldn't evidence them. Calpe 
concluded that, in fact, Mrs M didn't have any financial  or insurable  interest in the car. It 
refused to pay the claim.
I can see why Calpe had concerns. If Mrs M hadn't taken some form of ownership of the car, 
then her policy wasn't valid. And Mrs Ms and Mr As accounts didn't always agree. For 
example, Mrs A initially told the investigators she paid Mr A a £5,000 deposit for the car and 
intended to make up the rest of the £14,000 price of the car in instalments. Whereas Mr A 
told Calpe that Mrs M had paid him £3,000 in instalments. So the two accounts didn't seem 
to agree and neither Mrs M nor Mr A had any supporting evidence of the money going from 
one person to the other.
Mrs Ms told us that she largely relies on cash and so had paid Mr A in cash. Thats why she 
couldn't provide any evidence of the amounts going to Mr A. And Mr A told us that as the 
money was owed to him by his mum he wasn't concerned about when she paid it and he 
hadn't banked any of the cash she gave him. It does seem that such an arrangement would 
be very unusual whereby large amounts of cash have moved from one person to another 
without any tangible proof. But that doesn't mean that Mrs M didn't take ownership of or have 
an insurable interest in the car.
It's not in doubt that Mrs M became the cars registered keeper around six months before it 
was stolen. Becoming a car's registered keeper doesn't mean that ownership has changed 
hands. But its a fairly good indicator of who is now responsible for it. And changing the 
registered keeper to Mrs M meant that she was legally responsible for taxing it. And Mrs M 
took out a policy with Calpe to insure the car and to cover it in the event that she needed to 
make a claim. Mrs M is the only driver on the policy, so it only covered her. The premium for 
her cover wasn't cheap and I find it unlikely that she'd have taken out such a policy if she 
didn't need one. So I'm persuaded by the evidence that she was using the car and thats why 
she took out the policy.
Further, while Mrs M and Mr A can't provide tangible proof of a transfer of funds between the 
two of them, that doesn't mean it didn't happen. I can understand that its entirely possible for 
cars to change hands between family members without formal agreements. But the 
responsibility for the car had clearly passed from one individual to another, even if Mr A was 
still required to pay the outstanding finance on it. And given Mrs M had taken the trouble to 
register the car in her name and insure it, I think she'd taken responsibility for it. So I think 
she had an insurable interest in it, regardless that she couldn't demonstrate to Calpe that 
shed handed over money for it.
I'm aware that most finance agreements for car will say that ownership of it shouldn't be 
transferred to another person without the agreement of the finance company. I haven't seen 
Mr As finance agreement so don't know if thats the case here. But even it was then whether 
or not Mr A, potentially, broke the rules of his finance agreement doesnt mean Mrs M didn't 
have a financial stake in the car. And I think that when it was stolen she suffered a loss. That 
was a loss that shed paid Calpe to insure her for. Calpe had accepted that risk of paying out 
on such a loss when it offered her the policy. So I don't think its reasonable that it declined 
her claim on the basis that she didn't have an insurable interest in the car.
The circumstances of the theft
Calpe told Mrs M that it had noted discrepancies and inconsistencies in the accounts of the 
theft. Ive seen that the investigators did note some discrepancies in the accounts of the 
circumstances leading up to the theft. But those were issues around things like what time 
they arrived at their friends house, why Mrs M had travelled there, and exactly who was 
there at the time. But none of those things call into question that the theft actually happened. And, unless individuals agree their accounts of events in advance, some inconsistencies in 
those accounts over time is to be expected. It doesn't automatically mean that the insured 
event hasn't taken place or shouldnt be covered.
Further, Calpe has seen a copy of the police report into the theft, which also doesn't raise 
any cause for concern. And, as far as I'm aware, theres been no evidence that the car was 
stolen with the original keys or that Mrs M or someone she knew had staged the theft. And in 
those circumstances, unless theres evidence Calpe hasn't shown to me, I can see no good 
reason for Calpe to fairly decline the claim.
Impact
I think Calpe was unfair to decline Mrs M's claim on the basis that it did. So I think it should 
settle her claim now subject to the remaining terms of her policy. And as Mrs Ms been 
without use of that money I think it should add simple interest to any settlement as described
below.
Further, while  given the unusual circumstances of the claim  I think it was reasonable for 
Calpe to want to thoroughly investigate the matter, I think the fact it came to an unfair 
conclusion, after such a considerable period investigating it, has been a source of distress 
and inconvenience to Mrs M. To address that it should pay her £500 compensation. I think 
that sum is fair and reasonable as it's in line with awards we make in other cases of similar 
seriousness.
Developments 
Calpe said it had nothing further to add. Mrs M accepted my decision but asked me to 
consider that the value of second hand cars is increasing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that the value of second-hand cars is, generally, increasing. But Mrs Ms policy 
covers her for the loss of the car at the time of the theft. Further my award to put things right 
includes directing Calpe to pay interest on its settlement, which should cover any increased 
cost because of Mrs Ms loss of use of the settlement sum in the meantime. 
As neither Calpe nor Mrs M objected to the rest of my provisional findings I see no reason to 
amend those.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Calpe insurance Company 
Limited to:
Settle Mrs Ms claim for the theft of her car subject to the remaining terms of her 
policy. It should add simple interest to any settlement at a rate of 8% a year from the 
date of Mrs Ms claim to the date it makes payment to her.
Pay Mrs M £500 compensation to address her distress and inconvenience.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman