DRN-4262959
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the settlement he was offered by Fortegra Europe Insurance 
Company Ltd (Fortegra) under a furniture warranty.
What happened
Mr C contacted Fortegra to make a claim for damage to his sofa under a furniture warranty. 
Fortegra assessed the damage and agreed to make a repair to the sofa. Mr C said the 
replacement fabric didnt match the colour of his sofa. Fortegra then said Mr C could select a 
sofa for £999 or accept a cash settlement for £499.50. 
Mr C complained because he said he couldnt replace the sofa for the amounts offered. 
When Fortegra replied, it said it had offered settlement in line with the terms of the policy. 
So, Mr C complained to this service. Our investigator didnt require Fortegra to do anything 
further. He said Fortegras offer was in line with the terms of the policy.
As Mr C didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 21 June 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Mr C was initially concerned that Fortegra was unable to match the sofa material. I can 
understand this would have been frustrating for Mr C. However, Fortegra has said it has 
been unable to match it and I cant require it to do something that doesnt seem to be 
possible. As an alternative, Fortegra offered to replace the sofa for another up to the value of 
£999 or a cash equivalent of £499.50.
The policy terms and conditions said:
The most we will pay under this protection plan is the original price you paid for the
product, after any discounts you were given at the time you bought it or £15,000,
whichever is the lowest.

If a repair cannot be achieved, we may replace the damaged part. If this is not possible [we] 
may provide a replacement product(s),or settle the claim by a cash settlement at [our] and 
your insurers discretion instead of a repair or replacement (up to the limit of indemnity).

Any replacement will be of a similar standard, specification and style as your original 
product, if the limit of cover allows this. 
Fortegra has said Mr C paid £999 for his sofa, so that was the amount it offered to cover the 
cost of a replacement. It said Mr C would need to contact the retailer and select the sofa 
himself and then get approval from Fortegra for the sofa selected. Mr C has said the amount 
offered isnt enough to cover the cost of replacing his sofa. I have looked at the retailers 
website and it still seemed to sell the equivalent sofa. This cost about £350 more than the 
amount Fortegra offered.
Im mindful that if the sofa was replaced by Fortegra, it wouldnt be paying the money to Mr 
C. It would be paying it to another company that would arrange the new sofa. Fortegra has 
confirmed to this service it has an agreement in place with that company which gives it a 
discount on the retail price of products. Even though the retail price of Mr Cs sofa has 
increased, Fortegra would still pay the other company a lower amount than Mr C originally 
paid for the sofa.
In order to put Mr C back in the position he was in before the claim, Fortegra needs to 
replace the sofa, as it isnt possible to repair it. It can provide Mr C with an equivalent sofa to 
the damaged one without paying more than Mr C paid for the sofa. So, it is currently my view 
Fortegra needs to replace the damaged sofa with the equivalent to the damaged one up to 
the amount it would itself pay to the company that would replace the sofa at trade prices.
Ive also thought about compensation. I think Mr C has been caused inconvenience and 
frustration by how his claim has been dealt with. So, I also intend to say Fortegra should pay 
Mr C £100 compensation to reflect this.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 19 July 2023. 
Mr C replied and didnt agree with my decision. In summary:
he said the claim shouldnt be settled under his policy. It should be settled under 
Fortegras policy as it had damaged his sofa. 
he said he had spoken to the sofa retailer and been told the sofa was still available and 
in the exact fabric Mr Cs sofa was covered in. He said it cost £1,249.00.
he questioned why Fortegra couldnt just put the damage right.
he questioned if something illegal was going on and whether there was some sort of 
cover up in favour of Fortegra.
he questioned why his insurance was being used against him and why he was expected 
to accept an inferior sofa, based on its price.
Fortegra replied and said the policy was indemnity based and the full indemnity of the policy 
was £999.00. If it paid more than this to the consumer, it said this would be betterment, 
which was not in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my provisional decision. 
As part of this, I have considered the points raised by both parties.
Mr C has said the damage to the sofa shouldnt be dealt with under his policy as Fortegra 
had damaged the sofa. He said it should be dealt with under its own insurance. So, Ive 
thought about this. Its my understanding that Fortegra was dealing with the sofa because Mr 
C had made a claim under the policy. Fortegra replaced some material on the sofa. 
However, after it was fitted, it was identified that the new fabric didnt match the rest of the 
sofa. So, Fortegra offered a cash settlement or to replace the sofa, in line with the terms of 
the policy. 
The repair not being successful because the fabric didnt match, didnt mean that Fortegra 
had to settle the claim outside of the policy. It is common for insurers to attempt a repair before considering other options under the policy, which is what Fortegra did. When the 
repair was unsuccessful, it offered alternative ways to settle the claim, which were also 
under the terms of the policy. I havent seen anything that showed me Fortegra needed to 
deal with the sofa damage through a policy other than the one Mr C claimed under.
Mr C has also said he spoke to the sofa retailer and was told that the sofa was still available 
and in the exact fabric Mr Cs sofa was covered in. When Mr C responded to my provisional 
decision, this service checked directly with two of the retailers stores whether it still stocked 
Mr Cs sofa and in the exact fabric he had bought. Both stores said that specific material had 
been discontinued. A store also confirmed that a similarly named fabric was noticeably 
different as it had a different weave. One of the stores, which was located near to Mr C, also 
confirmed it didnt have a sofa in stock with fabric that matched Mr Cs sofa. Im aware this is 
different to what Mr C has said he was told. Im unable to explain why the information 
provided to this service by the retailer was different. However, I remain of the view that I 
cant require the sofa or fabric be replaced with an exact match when the retailer has told 
this service it no longer makes sofas with that fabric. As a result, I also remain of the view 
that it is reasonable for Fortegra to offer an alternative settlement for the sofa.
Fortegra has said if it paid more than £999 to settle the claim, it would be betterment. 
However, I havent said Fortegra needs to pay more than £999 to settle the claim. I also 
havent said it should make a cash settlement. I have said it needs to replace the sofa. 
The policy said If a repair cannot be achieved, we may replace the damaged part. If this is 
not possible [we] may provide a replacement product(s),or settle the claim by a cash 
settlement. So, based on the wording of the policy, replacing the sofa is different to 
paying a cash settlement. Fortegra has confirmed that where it replaces a sofa it receives a 
discount, which makes the cost to itself significantly lower than the retail price. Even, if the 
sofa cost £1,350, which is the price I found for a similar sofa on the retailers website, 
Fortegra would still pay less than £999 for the replacement sofa. So, it wouldnt be paying 
more than £999. 
I remain of the view that in order to put Mr C back in the position he was in before the claim, 
Fortegra needs to replace the sofa, as it isnt possible to repair it. So, in line with the words 
of the policy, Fortegra needs to provide Mr C with a sofa of a similar standard, specification 
and style as [the] original product, if the limit of cover allows this. Based on the information 
Fortegra provided to this service, due to the agreement it has in place, it can provide Mr C 
with an equivalent sofa without it paying the sofa supplier more than Mr C paid for the sofa. 
So, it is within the limit of cover.
Putting things right
Fortegra should provide a replacement sofa equivalent to the one damaged and apply the 
£999 limit to the trade price. It should also pay Mr C £100 compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd to:
Provide a replacement sofa equivalent to the one damaged. The £999 limit should be 
applied to the trade price, not the retail price, as the trade price is what it will pay for the 
replacement.
Pay Mr C £100 compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman