DRN-3153243
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy HSBC Bank UK (HSBC) gave wrong information about his account balance.
What happened
In January 2021, Mr L called HSBC to enquire about his account balance. He says the agent 
initially gave him an incorrect figure of £31 instead of around £39. He asked HSBC to 
compensate him for this error.
HSBC said theyd listened to the call and Mr L was given the correct account balance. Mr L 
felt the complaints manager was lying since the agent had apologised for making a mistake 
during the call. He asked for a senior manager to listen to the call again, but HSBC refused 
to do so. 
Mr L referred his complaint to us. Our investigator said that HSBC had given Mr L the correct 
balance. Mr L disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L was expecting to receive correct and accurate information from HSBC when he asked 
for his account balance. This is a fairly straightforward request and Mr Ls expectation wasnt 
unreasonable.
Ive carefully listened to the call in question, between Mr L and HSBC. Having done so, Im 
satisfied that Mr L was given the correct account balance of £38.17 at the start of the call. He 
even repeated the figure he was given.
I can understand why there may have been a misunderstanding as Mr L also queried the 
recent credits and debits, so a few different amounts were mentioned. But I cant fairly say 
that HSBC have done something wrong when their agent gave Mr L the correct account 
balance.
I appreciate the agent apologised during the call, but this doesnt mean he accepted 
responsibility and that Mr L should be compensated. The agent apologised if he made an 
error. I think this was reasonable, since the agent didnt have the benefit of listening to the 
call at the time.
Im satisfied HSBCs complaints manager wasnt lying or covering up any wrongdoing by her 
colleague, as suggested by Mr L. HSBCs complaint manager listened to the call, and 
correctly told Mr L that he was given the right account balance.
I also dont think HSBC acted unreasonably in refusing to listen to the call again when theyd 
already done so and shared their findings with Mr L. Listening to the call again wouldnt have 
resulted in a different outcome.
In any event, I wouldnt make an award of compensation to Mr L, even if he was given the 
wrong balance at the start of the call  which as Ive explained above, he wasnt. 
I say this because dealing with financial services isnt always hassle free and occasionally 
mistakes do happen. Were all inconvenienced at times in day-to-day life and it isnt unusual 
to experience some frustration and annoyance. 
It also doesnt follow that an error by a business will mean an award of compensation is 
appropriate. Wed need to be satisfied the impact on the consumer was more than the 
normal nuisances of everyday life.
Although HSBC havent made an error here, even if they had, the impact on Mr L doesnt 
warrant any compensation. I say this because the impact on Mr L wouldve been very minor, 
as the confusion was clarified within around six minutes. And the agent apologised if hed 
made a mistake.
All things considered, Im satisfied HSBC havent done anything wrong. I know Mr L will be 
disappointed with my decision, but I hope he feels reassured now that someone independent 
has reviewed the call and reached this conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman