DRN-4096358
The complaint
Mr Hs representative has complained, on his behalf, that Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefits from his 
occupational pension scheme (OPS)  the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS)  to a 
Personal Pension Policy (PPP).
What happened
The investigator who considered this matter set out the background to the complaint in his 
assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, one of 
which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund 
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when 
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31 
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Hs employer would be set up  the BSPS 2.
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor
scheme, BSPS 2, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) or into a private arrangement, such as
a PPP.
Mr H met with an adviser from Inspirational in October 2017 to discuss his retirement 
planning needs. His circumstances were recorded as follows:
He was 50 and married, with no dependants
Hed accrued over 33 years service in the BSPS
He was in good health
He was earning around £38,000 pa, with around £500 pm joint disposable income
He had few other assets upon which he could rely in retirement
He had a cautious/balanced, or conservative attitude to investment risk
He had an outstanding mortgage of around £18,000
His options at that time were to:
1) Remain in the BSPS which would then become part of the PPF
2) Transfer to the BSPS 2
3) Transfer out of the BSPS into a money purchase pension arrangement
Mr H had answered the fact find questions regarding his attitude to risk. In summary, Mr H 
indicated that hed like to take pension benefits in four years if his financial situation allowed, 
but he wasnt comfortable with losses greater than 5% and would tend towards a lower 
risk/reward investment approach.
However, he also said that he would be prepared to wait out any short-term losses and 
worried more about the compounding effect of inflation rather than returns in any given 
short-term period.
Mr Hs primary objective was recorded as being to achieve greater flexibility when drawing 
benefits from his pension funds. It was also noted within the fact find that Mr H wanted to 
retire at 55 if possible and increase any dependants pension to be available as a lump sum 
benefit so long as it did not reduce his own income. Also noted were his desire for security, 
control, breaking ties with the employer, and desire to improve the available benefits.
Inspirational issued a suitability report dated 1 November 2017. It recommended that Mr H 
transfer his OPS benefits to a Royal London PPP which was to be invested in the Royal 
London Governed Portfolio 3 Fund.
Inspirational noted the reasons for the transfer as having the flexibility to retire early and 
begin receiving an income accordingly, while avoiding any restrictions associated with 
joining the BSPS 2 or the PPF.
Mr H accepted Inspirationals recommendation, and the application form was signed and 
dated 1 November 2017 - and received by Royal London on 7 November 2017. The amount 
transferred was £393,144. 
Mr Hs representative complained to Inspirational about the advice hed been given in a letter 
dated 17 February 2022.
Inspirational declined to uphold Mr Hs complaint, saying in summary that Mr Hs objectives 
could only be achieved by transferring his pension away from the PPF/BSPS2. It also 
asserted that Mr Hs attitude to risk and financial experience supported the recommendation.
Having considered the complaint, the investigator thought that it should be upheld. He said 
the following in summary:
On the basis of the available contemporaneous evidence, he considered that Mr Hs 
highest priority was the ability to retire earlier than the scheme retirement age of 65.
Retirement at 55 was preferable to Mr H, so the investigator considered whether this 
was a realistic objective.
Mr H and his wife were both within five years of age 55, but the joint 
income/expenditure assessment in retirement undertaken by Inspirational wasnt a 
realistic way of determining the viability of early retirement. There were no details 
about Mrs Hs likely retirement income, and this would have been lower than her 
existing income.
There would also need to have been other savings to make early retirement 
affordable. It was noted that there was £500 pm disposable income, but Mr and Mrs H had no other savings, and so it seemed that the disposable income was at that 
time being spent.
Where there were inconsistencies such as a budget suggesting low outgoings 
compared to current income  but with no savings  further conversations should 
have been held to understand whether Mr and Mrs H could give up the things they 
were spending money on at the time.
The suitability report had said that early retirement wasnt possible under the PPF, 
but this wasnt the case  all three options would have allowed Mr H to retire early, 
and the PPF had preferential reduction rates for early retirement. The revaluation 
rates for deferred benefits between the PPF and the BSPS 2 would have differed, 
however.
Although there were reductions in the benefits payable from the OPS for early 
retirement, this was to reflect the longer period over which the benefits would be 
payable. This was similar to the lower potential of a money purchase pension fund to 
grow, and indeed be sustained, if accessed early.
But by remaining in either the BSPS 2 or the PPF, the investment risk would have 
been borne by the scheme, whereas after transferring this would have been borne by 
Mr H.
The advice had been after the regulator had given instructions in final guidance 
FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future discount rates for complaints 
about transfers which were being upheld. Prior to that, this service was publishing 
information with which businesses could calculate future discount rates. 
Whilst businesses werent required to use these when giving advice, they 
nevertheless provided a useful guide as to the kinds of returns deemed feasible at 
the time of the advice.
The discount rate was 4.2% pa for the period up to Mr Hs normal retirement date 
(65), and 3% up to age 55. Inspirational hadnt been able to provide a TVAS (a 
pension transfer analysis report), but the suitability report quoted the required critical 
yield to match the BSPS benefits at 65 as being 8%. For the PPF, this was 4%.
But as the main basis for the recommendation was early retirement, it was a 
significant omission for the critical yields required for this not have been quoted.
Previous experience of such critical yield figures demonstrated that, over the shorter 
term they tended to be higher, and the discount rate also reduced over a shorter 
term.
Pension illustration growth rates set by the regulator were 2%, 5% and 8% for low, 
medium and higher projected returns respectively, and so the likely critical yields for 
early retirement were higher than these.
Taking these figures into account, the critical yields werent reasonably achievable, 
and there was no reasonable prospect of Mr H improving upon the scheme benefits.
The assessment of the income which Mr H could take from the PPP (to correspond 
with the same income as that available from the scheme at age 55) determined that 
Mr Hs fund would be valued at around £100,000 by age 99.On the face of it, this seemed to demonstrate financial viability, but this assumed a 
preparedness to accept a medium level of investment risk. Mr H had very few assets 
upon which to rely  and little time if early retirement was the objective - if he needed 
to recoup losses in his pension fund. Mr H didnt have the capacity to risk such 
potential losses.
Mr H had a conservative attitude to risk, and had indicated that he was only 
prepared to accept a 5% loss in his pension fund. Hes also previously only accepted 
small risks in his financial affairs and was only prepared to take low risk with his 
investment decisions. And where Mr H was prepared to engage with risk, this 
seemed to have been on the understanding that he had a long term horizon in which 
he could expect his fund value to recover.
Mr H wasnt therefore prepared to accept the level of risk assumed in the drawdown 
analysis. The prospective returns used by Inspirational were too high, given that the 
PPP provider itself used a capped mid band growth rate in its illustrations of 2.4% pa.
Inspirational hadnt therefore projected the returns which Mr H might expect from the 
PPP appropriately  and there was consequently doubt as to the sustainability of the 
use of drawdown from age 55.
The investigator recommended that Inspirational undertake a loss calculation in accordance
with the regulators guidance and on the basis that Mr H would have opted to join the BSPS 
2. In support of this, he said that the PPF would provide a more favourable early retirement 
discount, but at the cost of both an initial 10% reduction in the benefits payable and 
potentially less favourable revaluation and escalation rates.
On the basis that the investigator considered Mr H should have been advised that retirement 
at 55 wasnt in any case likely to be financially viable, his awareness of the differences 
between the PPF and the BSPS 2, and the shortfall in Mr Hs desired income and effects of 
inflation on spending power over time, he thought that Mr H would have been more likely to 
retire closer to 65 than 55.
Mr H would have benefitted more from the starting income in the BSPS 2 and so it was that 
scheme which should be used in the calculation, he said, and on the basis of retirement at 
the normal scheme retirement age of 65.
He further noted that the guidance contained in FG17/9 would shortly be superseded by new 
guidance  and so Inspirational should await this before undertaking the redress calculation.
He said that any redress should in the first instance be paid to Mr Hs pension plan, but if this 
wasnt possible, it should be paid directly to Mr H, with a notional deduction for the (assumed 
basic rate) income tax he would have paid on the pension benefits.
Mr Hs representative accepted the investigators conclusions, but Inspirational didnt 
respond.
As agreement hasnt been reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.And having done so, Ive reached similar conclusions to those set out by the investigator, 
and for broadly the same reasons.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP, I need to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The applicable guidance, rules, regulations and requirements 
This isnt a comprehensive list of the guidance, rules and regulations which applied, but 
provides useful context for my assessment of the business' actions here.
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time Inspirational advised Mr H 
were set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like Inspirational, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for 
their clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk 
beyond their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, 
Inspirational needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice 
met Mr Hs objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the 
requirement for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder 
pension scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises 
a retail client to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension 
scheme with safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to 
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and
(4)take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;    
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Ive therefore considered the suitability of Inspirationals advice to Mr H in the context of the 
above requirements and guidance.
Inspirationals rationale for transferring
Mr H wasnt categorised as an execution only or insistent client, and Inspirational was 
taking him through the advice process. Therefore, Inspirational could be confident that he 
would be acting upon its advice.
In accordance with COBS 9.2.2R, fact finding was undertaken for Mr H and his 
circumstances and objectives were recorded  as Ive noted above.
Ive noted above within the FCAs guidance that the starting assumption for an assessment 
of Mr Hs options was that a transfer would be unsuitable, unless it could clearly be 
demonstrated that it was in his best interests in order to meet specific objectives. 
And so Ill therefore explore these objectives further below. But initially, Ill consider the
advice to transfer from a purely financial perspective  so, in broad terms, how likely was it
that Mr H would be better off financially as a result of the transfer.
The financial case to transfer
Inspirational obtained a transfer report for comparison purposes to determine the viability of 
the transfer to meet Mr Hs objectives from a financial perspective  although I note that this 
hasnt been provided. As commented by the investigator, however, the critical yields to age 
65 were quoted within the suitability report.The suitability report was issued after the FCAs revised guidance which was released in late 
October 2017, and which provided discount rates for levels of growth which were deemed 
achievable for particular time periods until prospective retirement. Before that, similar rates 
were published by this service. As noted by the investigator, businesses werent required to 
reference these when providing advice on transfers, but they would nevertheless have been 
a useful indicator of the type of investment return deemed feasible at the time.
The discount rate deemed achievable for the number of years left to the scheme retirement 
age of 65 was 4.2% pa, and 3% to age 55. And the mid band growth rate used to illustrate 
the benefits which might be payable from a PPP was 2.4%.
The critical yield to age 65, at 8% for the BSPS, therefore comfortably exceeded both the 
discount (or growth) rate deemed achievable over the same period, and the mid band growth 
rate used by the pension provider  which might perhaps be a reasonable assumption for a 
medium risk investor (even though Mr H was recorded as being a conservative investor). 
The above critical yield was calculated on the basis of the BSPS benefits, rather than the 
BSPS 2 benefits. The critical yield to match those which would be produced by the PPF at 
age 65 was quoted as being 4% pa.
Given what was known about the proposed BSPS 2 and Mr Hs own projected benefits, I 
think it ought to have been possible to produce critical yields for that proposed successor 
scheme as well. But in the absence of those, I think that assuming critical yields somewhere 
between those for the BSPS and the PPF wouldnt be unreasonable in estimating those 
which might be required for the BSPS 2. But these would still have been higher than the 
growth rate which would reasonably have been projected for an investor such as Mr H.
And as set out by the investigator, given that the main premise of the transfer was early 
retirement, I think that Inspirational should have provided the critical yields to retirement at 
age 55. But in the absence of those, I think its reasonable to say that they were likely to be 
higher still than those to age 65.
I think its more likely than not that the critical yields were in fact unachievable, year on year, 
for the number of years that Mr H had until he reached either early or normal retirement age. 
And as a reminder, these growth rates were required to just match the scheme benefits.
From a financial perspective, there needed to be a realistic chance that the benefits of the 
scheme could be bettered through transferring. And as set out above, the guidance was that 
it needed to be clearly demonstrated that the transfer would be in Mr Hs best interests. As 
such, my view is that the transfer couldnt be justified from a financial perspective, especially 
given the valuable guarantees which Mr H would be relinquishing.
But the feasibility of achieving a critical yield alone wouldnt in any case indicate suitability of 
a transfer, as set out in COBS 19.1.7B.
The requirement for control and flexibility - and early retirement
Before I assess these objectives in greater detail, I think its firstly fair to say that 
Inspirational did provide warnings on the guarantees which would be relinquished, but as 
Inspirational will be aware, risk warnings alone wouldnt render unsuitable advice suitable. 
And irrespective of the detail contained in a recommendation report, this also wouldnt make 
otherwise unsuitable advice suitable. Inspirational needed to be satisfied, before providing its 
recommendation, that relinquishing the guarantees and taking the investment risk was a 
suitable course of action for Mr H.As Ive said above, Inspirationals reasoning for the recommended transfer was that Mr H 
required flexibility of income due to his particular circumstances, objectives  notably to retire 
early if possible - and concerns about the employer and the pension scheme. And so Ive 
given this argument careful consideration.
Id initially say that, even without investment experience or other significant assets, I do 
acknowledge that Mr H may have understood the principle of risk/reward which would be 
associated with flexible income drawdown, and that there may have been discussions 
around such concepts with colleagues who were going through the same process. 
But I have similar concerns to those expressed by the investigator regarding Mr Hs risk 
rating. I think he was likely correctly identified as having a cautious, or conservative, attitude 
to risk. Id question the general principle of someone with a conservative risk rating being 
advised to enter a risk based environment  where they assumed the totality of the risk - 
when they could simply have remained in an environment of guaranteed pension benefits. 
But even if it could reasonably be argued that it was suitable for a conservative/cautious 
investor to move from the former to the latter, Mr Hs risk rating wouldnt sit comfortably with 
the investment risk required here to achieve the returns to even just match the scheme 
benefits. 
But I think theres also the wider issue about Mr Hs capacity to take financial risks with his 
pension funds which is pertinent to the overall suitability of what was recommended here. 
The investigator concluded that Mr H had an overall low capacity for loss, given his paucity 
of other assets upon which he could rely in retirement. And Im inclined to agree. Mr H had 
joined the replacement defined contribution scheme, and so would likely have accrued a 
reasonable amount of money purchase benefits given the overall contribution rate (if he 
remained with the same employer). 
But other than the state pension which wouldnt be payable until age 67, the defined benefits 
accrued through the BSPS were likely to have been his main source of guaranteed income. 
Through transferring, Mr H was effectively putting a lot of his eggs in one money purchase 
basket. Any reduction in the benefits payable from them would therefore have had an 
impact on his financial security in retirement.
But I also dont think Mr H in any case needed to take the associated risks here. In terms of 
the control and flexibility argument, I understand that this would be that Mr H would have 
control over his pension funds, outside of the BSPS, and could alter the income he withdrew 
from a flexi-drawdown arrangement to ideally retire early and satisfy changing income 
needs. But other than concerns around the employer and associated scheme, which Ill 
address further below, its unclear as to why Mr H would have wanted or needed such 
flexibility at the cost of such valuable guaranteed benefits, given the investment risk 
associated with the transfer, and bearing in mind his attitude to risk and apparent lack of any 
similar recorded historical investment which might otherwise indicate a preparedness to take 
risks with his pension income.
Mr H was accruing further benefits in his defined contribution scheme, and given the 
contribution rates to that scheme (my understanding is that this was 10% and 6% employer 
and employee contributions respectively) and the number of years left to retirement, 
compared against the benefits accrued in the final salary scheme, at the normal scheme 
retirement age, around 15 years of his pension accrual would likely be derived of the defined 
contribution scheme. As such, Mr H would already by necessity have been taking investment 
risk through the replacement scheme.
But in light of this, and given that in the 33 years up to that point Mr H had been accruing 
defined benefits, I think the guarantees attached to those defined benefits would have been of considerable value and shouldnt have been relinquished lightly in favour of a flexibility 
which was loosely defined around the apparent desire for early retirement and concerns 
around the employer/scheme. 
As with others in his position, I think its fair to say that Mr H would have been concerned 
about the future of the BSPS and his associated benefits. But Mr Hs concerns around this 
should have been managed appropriately. I appreciate that there will be instances where a 
client seeks financial advice with preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health 
of an employer or pension scheme, but as the professional party, the IFA is tasked with 
rationally addressing those concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of the 
available options.
I dont think this happened here. There was no prospect of the BSPS funds being lost to the 
employer, even if Mr H distrusted it. Further, the whole point of the BSPS consultation, which 
had resulted in the agreement being announced in August 2017, had been to avoid the 
necessity of the BSPS pension funds entering the PPF, and by the point of the advice (and 
in fact by the time of the time to choose exercise) the BSPS 2 seemed more likely than not 
to be a viable alternative. Conditions still needed to be met for the BSPS 2 to be established, 
but when the advice was given, there was no imminent prospect of the BSPS entering the 
PPF without there being an alternative to this  the BSPS 2. In fact, I think its reasonable to 
say that all indications by that time were to the contrary.
I also have concerns around the way in which the situation at that time was portrayed to Mr 
H. For example, as noted by the investigator, Inspirational informed Mr H in the suitability 
report that he wouldnt be able to retire early if his benefits needed to be transferred into the 
PPF. But this wasnt the case  the PPF did allow early retirement. 
As Ive said above, I think the prospect of Mr Hs accrued benefits needing to enter the PPF 
had receded. But even if this remained the more likely outcome, this would still have 
provided Mr H with valuable benefit guarantees, and possibly a more favourable early 
retirement reduction if he did in fact take scheme benefits earlier than age 65. 
And so I think that, had Mr Hs concerns been better managed, and accurate information 
provided, a key driver for having control over his pension benefits would also have 
diminished.
And on the specific matter of early retirement, I agree with the investigator that financial 
advice should be more than simple wish fulfilment. And if such a plan isnt credible, then 
the client should be advised of this. In this case, the suitability report recorded that Mr H had 
said that he would ideally like to retire at age 55 if his finances allowed it. But given his 
overall circumstances and lack of other available assets, along with what the investigator 
noted as an incomplete assessment of Mr and Mrs Hs likely income needs in retirement, I 
think its doubtful that Mr Hs financial situation, and his attitude to risk, would have meant 
that he could retire early comfortably.
And so on the basis of what Ive said above, it follows that I dont think the possibility of early
retirement, or any other requirement around control over, and flexibility of, income, was 
sufficient reason for Mr H to transfer his deferred benefits.
Death benefits
The restructuring of the death benefits doesnt appear to have been a key motivator in the 
transfer. And Mr H commented in the fact find that maximising his own pension benefits was 
the priority rather than leaving a spouses/dependants pension. But I would in any case 
comment that, if a lump sum death benefit was important to Mr H, the brief comparison provided within the suitability report omitted the death in service benefits which Mr Hs 
dependants would receive from his employer. 
Further, accrued pension provision is intended to provide for an individuals retirement rather 
than a desire to leave a legacy for extended family members. The recommendation needed 
to be given in the context of Mr Hs best interests, and Mr H himself identified this.
What should Inspirational have done  and would it have made a difference to Mr Hs 
decision?
There were understandably concerns relating to the BSPS at the time of the advice - and I
fully acknowledge this. Its fair to say that this was a period of great uncertainty for
individuals such as Mr H. But this only serves to emphasise the need for a balanced
assessment of the options available and, ultimately, suitable advice.
There was no imminent prospect of Mr Hs scheme benefits needing to enter the PPF. On 
the contrary, whist I acknowledge it wasnt at that point guaranteed, I think the indications 
were that the BSPS 2 would more likely than not be successfully implemented.
Ive also thought very carefully about whether the service provided to Mr H was a balanced
appraisal of the options available to him, coupled with a robust and candid discussion about
his own concerns relating to the BSPS. Mr H, amongst many others in a similar position,
may have been concerned by developments relating to his employment and the BSPS, 
which clearly fed into his views on having control over his own pension funds, but he was 
nevertheless entitled to an impartial review of his options.
And looking at those options, one of the key recorded objectives - possible early retirement 
was in any case achievable within the BSPS 2, and would have remained so even in the 
scenario of entry into the PPF  contrary to the statement in the suitability report.
For the reasons given above, I dont think the perceived advantage of flexibility and control
of income outweighed the guaranteed benefits in the scheme. The available evidence simply 
doesnt support the position as to why control or flexibility would have been sufficiently 
compelling reasons for Mr H to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees which hed accrued 
over some 33 years within the scheme. 
My further view is that, if properly discussed, Mr Hs concerns about the existing scheme
could have been successfully allayed, such that he appreciated the important guaranteed
benefits, even under the PPF, which he would be relinquishing for the sake of income
flexibility which he simply didnt need, and a future pension which would, other than the state 
pension from age 67, be entirely dependent upon investment returns  rather than being 
partially dependent upon them as would otherwise have been the case through the defined 
contribution scheme.
Tax free cash for whatever purpose would have been available both from his accrued 
defined contribution and defined benefit pension funds. Death benefits were also payable 
from the defined benefit scheme, albeit in a different format from those available from the 
PPP.
The critical yield is usually a telling indicator of the value of the benefits being relinquished.
As Ive set out above, the critical yields were higher than the discount rate and the mid band 
growth rate in the PPP projection. And Id reiterate that I think it was unlikely to be 
achievable, year on year, to even simply match the scheme benefits, given Mr Hs 
conservative risk attitude.Taking account of Mr Hs circumstances, including his recorded attitude to risk, his 
objectives and the guarantees which the BSPS offered and would have persisted with either 
the BSPS 2 or the PPF, my view is that Inspirational should have advised against the 
transfer.
And I think that, had this happened, Mr H would have followed that advice and not
transferred his benefits to the PPP.
Summary
For the reasons given, my view is that a fair and reasonable assessment of this case leads
to a clear conclusion  that the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable for Mr H, nor was 
it in his best interests. The key contributing factors here are: Mr Hs conservative attitude to 
risk and its incompatibility with the type of investment risk which would have been required to 
match the scheme benefits  a failing under COBS 19.1.7; and the lack of a comprehensive 
and balanced portrayal of Mr Hs options (for example early retirement through the PPF and 
the omission of death in service benefits)  a failure to adhere to COBS 19.1.2 (2) and 
19.1.8.
Furthermore, at least one of the key benefits sought by Mr H was available without needing
to transfer  possible early retirement, although Id refer to my comments, aligned as they 
are to the investigators, about the actual viability of this. I also note that Mr H hasnt retired 
yet.
My view is that, taking account of the critical yields, Mr Hs conservative attitude to risk with 
regard to his pension funds and matching that with the likely corresponding investment 
returns, it was unlikely, albeit I acknowledge, not impossible, that the benefits available from 
the BSPS, or a successor scheme, could be bettered through the transfer. 
As the other reasons for transferring were insufficiently compelling, when considered against 
the valuable benefits being relinquished, as set out in COBS 2.1.1R and COBS 19.1.6, 
Inspirational would - or should - then have drawn, and conveyed, the conclusion that 
transferring wasnt in Mr Hs best interests.
Putting things right
As set out in the investigators comments relating to the BSPS-specific redress calculator, I 
consider that it would be appropriate to use that calculator here rather than FG17/9, given 
the BSPS-specific circumstances.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr H, as far as possible,
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H would 
most likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS 2 
if suitable advice had been given. I acknowledge that the PPF may have provided enhanced 
early retirement benefits, but had Mr H been suitable advised, I dont think he would have 
opted to take early retirement, certainly at 55.
Had Mr H been made aware of the likely incompatibility of the growth expectations of his
pension fund with his conservative attitude to risk, and more importantly had been suitably 
advised against transferring on that basis, I dont think he would have transferred. And had 
Mr H remained in the BSPS, I dont think he would have retired early on the basis of the 
reductions which would have applied in either the BSPS 2 or the PPF. As set out above, I 
note that Mr H still hasnt retired.Inspirational Financial Management Ltd must therefore undertake a redress calculation in 
line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as 
detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress 
calculator to calculate the redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to 
Mr H and our service upon completion of the calculation.
Mr H has not yet retired, and my understanding is that he has no plans to do so at present. 
So, compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Hs
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and
set out in DISP App 4, Inspirational Financial Management Ltd should:
calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr H before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation),
and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment
their defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr H accepts Inspirational Financial Management Ltds offer to calculate how much 
of its redress could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge 
Mr H for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of its redress 
augmented,
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Hs end of year tax position.Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in
line with DISP App 4, businesses may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have
been taxed according to Mr Hs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Inspirational Financial Management Ltd to pay 
Mr H the compensation amount as set out above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I would also
recommend that Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr H the balance.
If Mr H accepts this final decision, the award will be binding on Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd.
My recommendation wouldnt be binding on Inspirational Financial Management Ltd. 
Further, its unlikely that Mr H could accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. Mr H may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept my final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd to undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman