DRN-2180927
The complaint
Mr F says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold him a regular payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy to cover his credit card repayments.
What happened
Mr F applied for a credit card by post in February 2001. At the same time, he took out a PPI 
policy to cover his credit card repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Fs complaint should be upheld because they thought Mr F 
wouldve understood he had a choice in taking the policy and thought it wouldve provided a 
useful benefit.
Mr F disagrees. He says he had 6 months sick pay at the time, so PPI wasnt needed.
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Fs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint and will explain why.
The PPI was applied for by post when Mr F completed an application form for a credit card. 
Capital One has given us a copy of the application form Mr F completed. 
On the application form there is an option to select PPI and option to not have it. I can see 
on Mr Fs application form a tick has been placed next to the option to have it. 
So, I think because Mr F selected to take PPI with a tick, he understood he had a choice in 
taking the policy and wanted the cover. If Mr F didnt want to take out PPI, he couldve ticked 
next to the option declining the policy. 
Because the PPI was taken out through the post, I dont think Capital One advised 
Mr F to take PPI. What this means is that Capital One didnt recommend PPI to Mr F, it just 
gave him information about PPI. This information needed to be given in a way that was 
clear, fair and not misleading so he could make an informed choice about buying PPI.
I dont know if Capital One did give all the proper information that was needed. But even if 
Capital One did give all the information Mr F needed to make an informed choice on taking 
out the policy, I think he wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale from what 
we know about Capital One policies:
He was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the terms 
and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr F says he was entitled to 6 months full sick pay. But I think the 
policy wouldve helped him in an extended time of need, so I dont think his 
circumstances at the time wouldve put him off buying it.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr F and he could cancel the 
policy if he no longer wanted it.
So, I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr F on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to him.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr F.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI because: 
When the policy was sold, Capital One expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr F about that. 
Because Capital One didnt tell Mr F, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium to Mr F - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr F.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman