DRN-2931655
The complaint
Mr K complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as Alphera Financial Services, wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. Mr Ks partner is also involved in his complaint.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 18 June 2021. In my provisional decision 
I set out what had happened as follows:
A used car was supplied to Mr K under a hire purchase agreement with Alphera 
Financial Services that he signed in March 2019. He returned the car to the dealer for 
a repair to the radio in September 2019 and he says that he told the dealer about a 
fault with the cars paintwork. He had issues with the customer service that he 
received from the dealer and the paintwork fault wasnt remedied so he complained 
to Alphera Financial Services and said that he wanted to reject the car.
It said that the price of the car reflected its age and mileage and it was reasonable to 
expect a certain degree of wear and tear  so it didnt agree that Mr K could reject 
the car. Mr K wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He was 
persuaded that Mr K had shown that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality given the 
amount paid, the age and mileage. He recommended that Alphera Financial Services 
should: allow Mr K to return the car and close down the finance agreement; refund 
the deposit paid (with interest); and remove the loan from his credit file. He said that 
it could keep all the monthly payments for usage.
Alphera Financial Services has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It says that consumers are unable to seek to reject a good where they 
have examined the goods before the contract is made, which examination ought to 
reveal the issue, and that this wasnt a brand new car. It also says that it cant set a 
precedent that when a customer is afforded an opportunity to view a vehicle prior to 
going ahead with the finance they are still able to reject the car two years later.
Mr K has arranged for the cars paintwork to be inspected by an independent 
paintwork specialist  for which he paid £50.40. 
My provisional findings were as follows:
Alphera Financial Services, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring 
that it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr K. Whether or not it was 
of satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the 
age and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it. Satisfactory quality also 
covers durability which means that the components within the car must be durable 
and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will also 
depend on a number of factors.
The car that was supplied to Mr K was about three years old, had been driven for 
17,006 miles and had a price of £31,393 (which included £399 for some paintwork 
protection). Mr K agreed to make 48 monthly payments of £506.32 for the car and 
there was an optional final repayment of £17,429.60.
Mr K says that some time after the car was supplied to him he noticed some damage 
to the paintwork on the front of the car. He says that the dealer agreed to sort it out 
but didnt do so. He also says that he paid for paintwork protection so the paintwork 
shouldnt be damaged.
Mr K has provided photos of the damage and a report from an independent paintwork 
specialist. The specialist says: 
There is no way of me knowing how long this has been happening for as I 
have only seen the vehicle on one occasion. Looking at the paint damage it is 
obvious that this is not something that has just appeared overnight, you can 
see from the age of the damage that it has been a problem for a while. I also 
believe that there has been a minor repair carried out on the area of concern, 
but I cannot comment on when this was carried out. I can not comment on 
whether this was present at the time of sale but due to where the problem is 
located on the vehicle it could have been easily missed.
Mr K did have the opportunity to inspect the car before it was supplied to him. I dont 
consider it to be likely that hed have entered into the hire purchase agreement for 
the car if hed noticed the damage  but the specialist has said that it could have 
been easily missed at that time.
This is a finely balance complaint because its not clear whether the paintwork was 
damaged when the car was supplied to Mr K or whether its been damaged since 
then - and if so whether or not the damage has occurred because of a fault with the 
paintwork that was present when the car was supplied to Mr K. In complaints like 
this, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I have to make 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Alphera Financial Services seems to accept that there was damage to the cars 
paintwork when the car was supplied to Mr K because it says that the cars price 
reflected its condition at that time and that Mr K shouldnt be able to reject the car 
because of damage that was discoverable on examination. But Im not persuaded 
that its reasonable to expect a car of this age and price to have issues such as this 
with its paintwork  particularly when the hire purchase agreement included £399 for 
paintwork protection.
I consider it to be more likely than not that theres an issue with the cars paintwork 
and that that issue causes the car not to have been of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied to Mr K. I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances for Mr K to be able to reject the car and for Alphera Financial Services 
to end the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from Mr K 
 both at no cost to him. I find that it should also remove any information about the 
agreement that its recorded on Mr Ks credit file.
The hire purchase agreement shows that Mr K didnt make an advance payment for 
the car but the dealers invoice shows that he paid a deposit of £500 and that a 
further £500 was due from him. It also shows that he part-exchanged a car which had a value of £13,716.37 and that outstanding finance on that car of £14,716.37 was 
settled by the dealer. The amount of credit provided to Mr K was £31,393 - which 
was also the price of the car - so the amounts paid by Mr K were equal to the 
difference between the part-exchange value of his car and the finance settlement 
payment. This has been confirmed by Mr K so Im not persuaded that it would be fair 
or reasonable for me to require Alphera Financial Services to refund any deposit to 
him.
Mr K has been able to use the car and Im not persuaded that the damage to the 
paintwork will have impacted on his use of the car to any material extent. So I dont 
consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Alphera Financial 
Services to refund to Mr K any of the monthly payments that hes made under the 
agreement. It can keep them as payment for the use that hes had from the car.
Mr K has provided a specialist report for which he paid £50.40. I find that should 
reimburse him for the cost of that report.
So subject to any further representations by Mr K, his partner and Alphera Financial 
Services, my provisional decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint.
Alphera Financial Services hasnt responded to my provisional decision but Mr K and his 
partner have responded to it in detail. They say, in summary, that:
they reported the issue with the paintwork within six months of the car being supplied 
to them and Alphera Financial Services isnt losing any money under my provisional 
decision;
the car has been returned twice for the paintwork to be rectified but on both 
occasions it wasnt put right;
theyve been told by the investigator that they slightly paid over the book value of the 
car for its age and mileage based on the guides that he used;
theyre happy with the outcome but there are lessons for them to learn even though 
they might not be achievable;
its unfair that they now have to raise a deposit to purchase another car and although 
they understand that the finance payments have covered the usage of the car, they 
feel it would only be fair for both parties to walk away with what they started with; and
they were due to make their July payment but if the car was going back then they feel 
that they shouldn't have to make that payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision.
I explained in my provisional decision why I considered it to be more likely than not that 
theres an issue with the cars paintwork which caused the car not to have been of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr K. Alphera Financial Services didnt agree 
that Mr K could reject the car when he complained to it and hes continued to use the car 
since then. I can understand Mr Ks frustration that its taken so long for his complaint to get 
to this stage but I consider that its now fair and reasonable for him to reject the car and for 
Alphera Financial Services to collect the car from him and end the hire purchase agreement. 
Mr K will be able to continue to use the car until its collected from him and I consider that its fair and reasonable for him to continue to pay for the car until that time. 
The price that Mr K paid for the car was a commercial decision between him and the dealer. 
They also agreed a price for the car that Mr K was part-exchanging. This service wouldnt 
normally interfere with commercial decisions such as those and Im not persuaded that it 
would be fair or reasonable for me to interfere with the price that Mr K paid for the car, even 
if the price was slightly higher than the price set out in the valuation guides. Mr K accepted 
that price when he entered into the hire purchase agreement and, if the price of the car 
wasnt acceptable to him at that time, I consider that it would be reasonable to expect him 
not to have signed the agreement.
Mr K part-exchanged a car on which there was outstanding finance. I cant require Alphera 
Financial Services to arrange for that car to be returned to him and the dealer has settled the 
outstanding finance on that car. The hire purchase agreement shows that Mr K didnt make 
an advance payment for the car and Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for 
me to require Alphera Financial Services to refund to Mr K and of the payments that were 
made towards settling the outstanding finance. 
I also consider that it would be fair and reasonable for Alphera Financial Services to 
reimburse Mr K for the cost of the specialists report and to remove any information about 
the hire purchase agreement that its recorded on his credit file. I sympathise with Mr K, and 
his partner, for the issues that theyve had with the car and the repairs that have been 
attempted, but I consider that the actions that Ive recommended that Alphera Financial 
Services should take are a fair and reasonable response to the issues that Mr K has had 
with the car - and Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require it to take any further action in response to Mr Ks complaint.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Alphera Financial 
Services to take the actions described in my provisional decision and as set out below. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint and I order BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited, trading as Alphera Financial Services, to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from Mr K  
both at no cost to him.
2. Pay £50.40 to Mr K to reimburse him for the cost of the specialists report.
3. Remove any information about the hire purchase agreement that its recorded on 
Mr Ks credit file.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman