DRN-2923161
The complaint
Mr R complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited declined a claim he made on 
his motor insurance policy, cancelled the policy and is requiring him to pay the balance of 
the premium. 
What happened
In late April 2020 Mr R took out a motor insurance policy for his car with Advantage. It 
covered him for social, domestic and pleasure use only. Shortly after the policy started, Mr R 
got a new job, which involved using his car to make deliveries. Mr R used the insurers app 
to amend the cover under the policy to include business use. He paid an additional premium 
for the increased cover.
In June 2020 Mr R had an accident while using his car to make a delivery as part of his job. 
The car was written off and Mr R made a claim on his insurance. Advantage refused the 
claim and cancelled Mr Rs policy. It said that Mr R was using the car outside the limitations 
of use when the accident happened. It explained that Mr Rs policy covered him for business 
use, which entitled him to travel to different places for work. But it said that if it had been 
made aware that the car would be used for the type of delivery work in question, it wouldnt 
have offered cover.
Advantage has since sought to recover the balance of the annual premium from Mr R.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he thought Mr R 
had failed to tell Advantage about a significant change in his occupation. So he thought it 
was fair of Advantage to reject the claim, cancel the policy and keep the premium.
Mr R disagreed with the investigators view, so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr R 
and to Advantage on 10 June 2021. I said:
Mr R had a responsibility under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA) to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of things to consider when deciding if a consumer has failed to 
take reasonable care. One these is what questions the consumer was asked. I can see that 
when Mr R applied for the policy online, he was asked what his occupation was and what 
type of business he worked in. He input details of his job in the hospitality sector.
Section 6 of the policy provided that You must let us know if you move house, change your 
job, change your car(s), change what you use your car for (i.e. business use) or if you want 
to include other drivers.
Mr R has explained that the hospitality venue where he worked had been forced to close in 
late March 2020, due to the Covid-19 lockdown. He says that when he applied for the 
insurance, he regarded himself as still employed in the hospitality sector, even though he 
was unable to work for the time being through no fault of his own. And hes pointed out that 
when the Covid-19 pandemic began, nobody knew how long it would last. So he doesnt 
consider he should have been viewed as unemployed, as it was so little time after the venue 
hed been working in had closed temporarily.
Mr R quickly started looking for alternative work to see him through. Nine days after he 
bought the policy, having been offered his delivery job, he used the insurers app to amend 
the policy to cover him for business use. Ive seen screenshots of the screens Mr R would 
have seen when he updated his cover. And I can see that once hed added the business 
cover, he was given the opportunity to click on a button to make other changes. But he didnt 
update his occupation.
Ive also seen a copy of the confirmation of the policy change which Advantage sent Mr R 
after he amended his cover. It included a request to check the information shown. It 
explained that it showed the answers Mr R had given during the initial quotation process and 
any changes made since. And it explained that it formed part of the contract of insurance. It 
said If any of the details are incorrect or have changed, please tell us immediately. It 
showed Mr R as employed in the job in the hospitality sector hed told Advantage about 
when he took out the policy.
I have some sympathy with Mr R. He took out the policy and, shortly after, amended the 
cover, at a very early stage of the Covid-19 pandemic. As hes pointed out, nobody could 
have known how long it was going to last. From what Mr Rs told us about his work in the 
hospitality job, it was casual, and his employer didnt put him on the governments furlough 
scheme. But I dont have any reason to doubt that he hoped to work for the same employer 
again once the business was allowed to open. And for all he knew, that would be very soon. 
This was a novel situation, and in all the circumstances, Im not convinced that it would be 
fair of me to conclude that Mr R was misrepresenting his position when he input details of his 
hospitality job when he applied for the policy.
But when Mr R added the business cover to his insurance with effect from 30 April 2020, he 
again had an obligation to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. It was due 
to the new job that he needed to amend his cover to include business use, and Im satisfied 
that he should have told Advantage about his new job at the same time as applying to 
amend the cover. And I say this even though I accept that Mr R may have regarded the 
delivery work as temporary.
Mr R says he believes he wasnt given enough information when he added business cover 
about what he could do. He says he did everything in his power to tell Advantage about his 
change in job title. And he says he phoned Advantage a couple of days after he amended 
the cover, and it confirmed that he was covered to carry out his new job. Hes provided 
phone records to show the call.
But Im satisfied that the number Mr R called was, in fact, for the separate business which 
provides breakdown cover under the policy. Advantage says the breakdown provider doesnt 
have access to its systems or details of policy cover other than breakdown cover. Advantage 
has tried to get a transcript of the call from the breakdown provider, but no transcript or 
recording is available. However, given that the breakdown provider doesnt have full details 
of Mr Rs policy cover, I think its unlikely that it would have expressed a view on whether the 
policy covered him for the delivery work. And telling the breakdown provider about his new 
job couldnt, in any event, reasonably be regarded as notification to Advantage of his new 
job.Its not in dispute that Mr R added business cover to his policy. I realise that he feels strongly 
that he told Advantage during a phone call about his delivery job. But Advantage has told us 
that it logs every incoming call. Its made a thorough search of its records, and theres no 
record of a call on its system. I can also see from its computer records that Mr Rs policy 
wasnt viewed on that day either, as Id expect it to have been if hed called to check his 
cover.
So taking everything into account, Im not satisfied that Mr R told Advantage about his 
delivery job until after his accident. And this means that Im satisfied he failed to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when Mr R contacted Advantage to 
change the policy to include business use with effect from 30 April.
I now need to consider what Advantage was entitled to do as a result of the 
misrepresentation. An insurer can only take action as a result of a misrepresentation if the 
misrepresentation was whats known as a qualifying misrepresentation, as set out in 
CIDRA. For that to be the case, Advantage would need to show either that it wouldnt have 
offered the policy at all, or that it would have offered cover on different terms, if the 
misrepresentation hadnt been made.
Advantage has referred to its car insurance acceptance criteria. They exclude cover for the 
type of delivery work that Mr R was working in. So Im satisfied that Advantage wouldnt 
have provided cover for Mr R if it had known about his new job. This means Im satisfied that 
Mr Rs failure to update his occupation amounted to a qualifying misrepresentation. And Im 
satisfied that the action taken by Advantage in avoiding his policy with effect from 30 April 
2020 was in line with CIDRA. The effect of avoiding the policy is that its treated as if it had 
never existed.
But the insurer is only entitled to keep the premium (or require the balance to be paid, if the 
premium hasnt been paid in full) if the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. CIDRA 
says:
(2) A qualifying misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless if the consumer 
a. Knew that it was untrue or misleading, or did not care whether or not it was 
untrue or misleading, and
b.Knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant 
to the insurer, or did not care whether or not it was relevant to the 
insurer. (my emphasis)
I dont think Mr R misrepresented his position deliberately. It seems to me that he did what 
he thought he needed to do to make sure that his insurance covered him for his new job. Ive 
already commented that he should have provided details of his delivery job when he 
amended the cover. But I think his failure to do so was most likely a careless omission, 
rather than an attempt to mislead.
And Im not satisfied that I can fairly conclude either that Mr R knew that details of his new 
job were relevant to Advantage, or that he didnt care whether they were. I think its most 
likely that by upgrading his cover to allow for business use, and paying an additional 
premium for it, he thought hed dealt with the situation. When Mr R contacted Advantage to 
make his claim after the accident, he appears to have been open and up-front about the type 
of delivery work that he was doing when the accident happened. And I think that at the point 
when he amended the policy to include business cover, its most likely that the possibility 
that the precise details of the work he was using the car for would matter to Advantage 
simply didnt occur to him.So taking everything into account, Im not satisfied that Mr R set out to mislead Advantage 
intentionally. And I dont think Advantage has done enough to show it was reckless.
The fact that Advantage was entitled to avoid Mr Rs policy from 30 April 2020 means hes 
not entitled to claim for the accident he had in June 2020. This is because, in effect, his 
policy didnt exist at the time. But the remedies for a careless misrepresentation mean that 
Advantage isnt entitled to keep Mr Rs policy premium, or to require him to pay the balance 
of the premium that would have been payable up to the renewal date.
So I explained that I intended to require Advantage to refund to Mr R the premium he paid 
for the policy from 30 April 2020, with simple interest on the refund from the dates on which 
Mr R made the payments until the date of the refund. And I said that it shouldnt pursue him 
for the balance of the premium. But I didnt intend to interfere with Advantages decision to 
avoid the policy and to refuse Mr Rs claim under it.
Further submissions
Mr R has told us that he accepts my provisional decision. Advantage hasnt commented on 
the decision and the time for doing so has now expired.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I cant see any good reason to depart from the findings I set out in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
Advantage should refund to Mr R the premium he paid for the policy from 30 April 2020, with 
simple interest at a rate of 8% per year on the refund from the dates Mr R made the 
payments until the date of the refund. And it should not pursue Mr R for the balance of the 
premium.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman