DRN-3468757
The complaint
Mr C complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC mishandled his chargeback claim and is 
seeking payment of his outstanding credit card debt.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr C used his credit card to pay for a holiday. He then cancelled the 
holiday and the merchant refunded his account in January 2020. Mr C was unaware of this 
and in July 2020 asked Tesco to make a chargeback. It didnt spot the money had already 
been refunded and it attempted a chargeback in September. A temporary refund was made 
on Mr Cs account. 
The chargeback was challenged by the merchant and it told Tesco the refund had already 
been made. Mr C disputed this and Tesco raised the chargeback again and took the matter 
to arbitration. This was unsuccessful and Tesco notified Mr C that the temporary credit would 
be removed and he would be liable for the sum due on his credit card account. 
Mr C complained and Tesco offered him £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the confusion and poor service. Mr C remained unhappy and 
brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators. Mr 
C said he didnt have the money to pay the debt and Tesco should stop chasing him for it. 
Our investigator didnt recommend it be upheld.
He said that while Tesco had failed to spot the refund on more than one occasion it had 
apologised and offered fair compensation of £100- and three months interest free to help Mr 
C repay the debt. He considered this to be a reasonable response.
Mr C didnt agree and said he hadnt noted the refund coming into his account and this had 
been reinforced by the bank failing to let him know the money had been refunded. He 
referred to a call in which the call handler had said they couldnt see the refund. This had led 
him to believe he was owed the sum of £1,467.37. He had closed the account and he didnt 
consider it right that it had been reopened by Tesco or that it could pursue him for the 
outstanding sum.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I have some sympathy with Mr C, ultimately the responsibility for managing an 
account lies with the customer.
The problem began when Mr C asked Tesco to pursue a chargeback claim. Tesco only 
instigated this after he had told it that he had not been refunded by the merchant. It relied on 
what it was told by Mr C. Tesco could have reviewed his account to verify Mr Cs claim, but it 
didnt do so. However, I do not think it was unreasonable to accept Mr Cs claim at face 
value.
I appreciate Mr C has said that his finances were such that a number of refunds were being 
made and significant sums were going out of his account so he didnt spot the disputed 
refund. I can understand that in these circumstances some confusion arose.
It is regrettable that, like Mr C, Tesco didnt spot the refund had already been made, but I 
dont think that would allow me to conclude that it should write off Mr Cs debt. I think it 
should have checked the account when the chargeback was challenged by the merchant 
and it had explained that a refund had been made. I believe that was an error, but not one 
that would lead to it meeting Mr Cs request to forgo the debt. I think the offer of 
compensation was a reasonable response to that oversight.
I appreciate Mr C relied on the conversation he had with the bank and then did not consider 
the matter further until he was notified that the money was payable. He had an expectation 
which turned out to be incorrect and the bank contributed to that, but it was not wholly 
responsible. Mr C got his money back and I can see no grounds for him being given a 
second refund.
I can understand that Mr C is upset by Tescos request for payment due to his financial 
situation and I would remind the bank of its obligation to deal with him positively and 
sympathetically in helping him resolve his financial difficulties.
My final decision
Tesco Personal Finance PLC has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC should pay £100 if it has not already 
done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman