DRN-3652911
The complaint
Miss L complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) have failed to refund over 
£87,000 she says she lost to an investment scam. 
What happened
Miss L says she transferred £43,750 on 12 July 2017 and £43,750 on 18 October 2018 to 
TQ Property Lawyers for the purchase of an investment with Northern Powerhouse 
Developments. This was to invest in a hotel room which she was told would provide her with 
8% interest per annum. However, Miss L says she realised it was a scam when the company 
became insolvent and she read an article in the paper about others who had lost their 
money. 
Miss L complained when Nationwide refused to provide her with a refund as they said she 
had authorised the transactions. Our investigator also didnt uphold the complaint, as she 
didnt think any intervention by Nationwide would have likely led to Miss L believing she was 
being scammed. Miss L disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Miss L authorised the disputed payments she made to TQ Property 
Lawyers. The payments were requested by her using her legitimate security credentials 
provided by Nationwide, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the 
instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as 
instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Nationwide should have done more to prevent Miss L 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character.
I appreciate that the two transfers Miss L made were of a significant value, so I accept 
there was cause for Nationwide to have intervened and made further enquiries before 
releasing the payments. However, even if Nationwide had intervened from the first 
payment and asked further questions, Im not persuaded it would have likely stopped her 
from proceeding or have ultimately prevented her loss, given there was little information 
available at the time to suggest Miss L was being scammed.
Miss L had been provided with a lease agreement from TQ Property Lawyers, as well as 
professional promotional materials such as brochures etc. And for all intents and 
purposes, it appeared to be a genuine investment opportunity. The company was also 
registered and active on Companies House at the time, and I have not seen evidence of 
any negative information online or warnings of the investment being a scam at the point 
Miss L made either of her payments. I appreciate that Northern Powerhouse 
Developments has since been revealed to have been potentially fraudulent. But there 
was nothing at the time to suggest this. So, she wouldnt have found any warnings online 
if the bank had warned her and advised her to carry out further checks.
Therefore, even if Nationwide had intervened and provided Miss L with a scam warning, 
Im not persuaded that any further checks she could have carried out at the time would 
have revealed anything significant to suggest she was being scammed. So, I dont think 
Nationwides failure to intervene can reasonably be considered as the proximate cause 
of Miss Ls loss in these circumstances, as it seems likely she would have proceeded to 
make the transactions irrespective of any intervention by the bank. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Miss L, and Im sorry to hear about 
the losses she has sustained as a result of the investment. However, in the circumstances, I 
do not consider it would be fair and reasonable to hold Nationwide liable for her loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman