DRN-4173773
The complaint
Mr S is a sole trader. He complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly terminated his Bounce 
Back Loan agreement and closed his bank account.
What happened
Mr S opened a bank account with HSBC for his sole trader business in July 2020. He 
successfully applied to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan of £12,500 shortly afterward.
In January 2021, HSBC reviewed Mr Ss loan application. To be eligible for a Bounce Back 
Loan, applicants needed to have been carrying on business on 1 March 2020. HSBC didnt 
think Mr S met this requirement, having noted that he told the bank his business had started 
on 3 March 2020 when applying for his bank account. 
HSBC also considered that Mr S had inflated his annual turnover so as to qualify for a higher 
loan amount. He declared an estimated turnover of £50,000 in his loan application when the 
bank could only see around £20,000 flowing through his account. 
These conclusions ultimately led HSBC to terminate the Bounce Back Loan agreement, 
albeit not until March 2022. It then applied the funds Mr S held in his bank account, of 
around £520, to reduce the amount owing before closing the account. The bank issued a 
formal demand for repayment of the remaining balance of just over £11,600. And, having 
deemed Mr Ss loan application to have been fraudulent, it registered information about him 
with the fraud prevention agency Cifas.
HSBC also terminated all the facilities that Mr S held with the bank in his personal capacity, 
and those held by a separate limited company of which Mr S is a director. Those issues are 
the subject of separate complaints. This decision deals only with how HSBC handled Mr Ss 
sole trader activity.
Mr S doesnt think HSBC treated him fairly. The bank didnt tell him why it was closing his 
account or recalling the loan, with both facilities having been withdrawn without notice or 
explanation. He says this had a severe impact on being able to run his business, in turn 
affecting his personal life and that of his family. Since learning that the primary reason for the 
banks decision was its belief that he wasnt trading before 1 March 2020, he has told us that 
he was  and has provided documentation that he believes proves this.
HSBC has maintained its position throughout, in response both to Mr Ss initial complaint to 
the bank and its subsequent referral to us. It says it closed Mr Ss accounts in line with the 
applicable terms and conditions following a thorough review.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision last month, setting out why I intended to uphold Mr Ss 
complaint in part and inviting both parties to let me have any further comments or 
information they wanted me to consider before making a final decision. I said:
To be eligible for a Bounce Back Loan, applicants needed to have been carrying on 
business on 1 March 2020. When applying for his loan, Mr S self-declared to HSBC 
that he met this requirement and the bank approved the application on this basis. In 
keeping with the rules of the Loan Scheme, HSBC was entitled to accept what Mr S 
said in this regard at face value.
When subsequently reviewing the loan application, HSBC had legitimate cause to 
question whether Mr Ss declaration was accurate. The records of Mr Ss bank 
account application show that hed told HSBC that his business had commenced on 
3 March 2020. 
The banks notes show that it called Mr S in January 2021 to discuss the apparent 
discrepancy. Regrettably, a recording of this conversation is not available. The brief 
note made by the banks adviser at the time says:
It is my understanding that the business started trading in March 
2020 but that it was not trading on the 1st of March. Language 
barrier.
HSBC concluded that Mr S hadnt been carrying on business at the requisite point in 
time. 
On the one hand, it is easy to see why HSBC reached that conclusion. Mr S had told 
the bank on his account application that hed started trading on 3 March, and it 
seems that the conversation with the bank in January reaffirmed that position. HSBC 
deduced that Mr S may have altered the date in his loan application to obtain the 
loan, for which he would not otherwise have qualified.
On the other hand, Mr S tells us that his business was up and running before 1 
March 2020. The discrepancy only amounts to a few days, and I think it is 
understandable that someone may not remember  or be able to evidence  the 
exact date that they began carrying on business, particularly as the phrase itself is 
open to some interpretation. Mr S has shown us that he had a utility bill addressed to 
his sole trader business at the business premises for services being provided from 27 
February 2020  suggesting that he was, at least, preparing to trade. 
As no recording of the conversation between Mr S and HSBC in January 2021 is 
available, I dont know exactly what he told the bank  or, importantly, how the bank 
phrased its question to him. The significance of getting the date exactly right is 
unlikely to have been made clear to Mr S. Had it been made clear, Mr S may have 
taken the time to check his records and/or look for supporting evidence. Im also 
conscious that English is not Mr Ss first language, and that the adviser who spoke 
with him in January 2021 seems to have noted some difficulty in discussing the 
matter with him (having referred to a language barrier, and the somewhat caveated 
note that it was their understanding that he wasnt trading on 1 March). 
There is no suggestion that Mr S isnt running a genuine business. The question is 
whether he was carrying on that business before 1 March 2020. Given the 
significance to Mr S of HSBCs subsequent actions, and given the discrepancy 
related to only a few days in early March 2020, I think HSBC should have 
investigated the position more thoroughly before reaching its conclusion. 
However, even if HSBC had investigated matters further, I think it would still have 
arrived at the same decision. Weve given Mr S the opportunity to evidence that he 
was trading before 1 March 2020, and the only documentary evidence to this effect is the utility bill in late February. I think HSBC would still have considered this 
insufficient to show that Mr S met the Loan Scheme eligibility requirements, so it 
would still have reached the same conclusion. And I think that conclusion would have 
been reasonable on the basis of all the evidence available. It is not for me to form a 
view on whether Mr S was or wasnt trading on 1 March 2020 but, on the basis of the 
total evidence available, I think HSBCs conclusion that he probably wasnt would 
have been reasonable.
Carrying on business before 1 March 2020 was a key eligibility requirement for a 
Bounce Back Loan. Therefore, this conclusion entitled HSBC to terminate the loan 
agreement. The terms and conditions of the agreement allowed the bank to take this 
action where any representations made by Mr S were or became materially 
misleading or incorrect.
Given all of this, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in terminating the loan and 
demanding its immediate repayment. The bank also had the right of set off, 
meaning it was entitled to use the money held in Mr Ss bank account to reduce the 
amount he owed on the Bounce Back Loan, as it did.
However, I have set out above the finely balanced nature of the issue regarding 
Mr Ss trading status because Im not persuaded that some of the other actions 
HSBC took were fair and reasonable in the circumstances. While I can see that there 
were legitimate grounds for HSBC to take the view that Mr S didnt meet the eligibility 
requirements for the loan, I dont think this means that Mr Ss application was 
fraudulent  as HSBC deemed it to be.
I note that HSBCs view was informed, in part, by its conclusion that Mr S had also 
inflated his turnover figure. Again, I dont think it reviewed this point thoroughly 
enough. Mr S declared an annual turnover of £50,000  but, as Mr Ss business had 
started after 1 January 2019, this was an estimated turnover, as required in the 
application. I would not expect the figure to be precisely accurate. HSBC noted that 
Mr S received a substantially lower amount through his account (seeing credits 
totalling £20,000). However, not all of Mr Ss turnover will necessarily have flowed 
through his account, with at least some of his income being received in cash. 
Therefore, it appears to me that the estimated figure he used doesnt seem beyond 
the bounds of reasonableness, with such a prediction for a new business operating in 
the volatile circumstances of the pandemic being particularly difficult. I dont believe 
that it adds any evidence to suggest Mr Ss loan application was fraudulent. 
For these reasons, I dont think HSBC acted fairly or reasonably in deciding that 
Mr Ss loan application was fraudulent. In my view, had the bank looked into things 
more thoroughly, I dont think it would have reached that conclusion.
HSBCs decision that Mr Ss loan application was fraudulent then prompted its other 
actions, i.e. closing his bank account immediately and reporting information to Cifas, 
and taking action related to his personal banking and other business. 
I can see why HSBCs reasonable concerns as to Mr Ss eligibility for the loan would 
have led it to close his bank account alongside calling in the loan, and it was entitled 
to take such action. But I think it would have been reasonable to give Mr S two 
months notice of the account closure, such that he had time to make alternative 
banking arrangements  reducing the disruption caused to the day-to-day running of 
his business. More significantly, I dont think it was fair for HSBC to record information with Cifas. 
Given the severity of the consequences of such a marker  which will have 
significantly restricted Mr Ss access to financial products and services  there is a 
burden of proof to be met beyond suspicion. Given all Ive said above, I dont think 
HSBC had reasonable grounds to believe that Mr S was acting fraudulently or that it 
obtained clear and rigorous evidence to show that he was, as is required by the 
principles that govern the Cifas database. 
Therefore, to put things right, Im intending to require HSBC to arrange for the 
removal of the marker from the Cifas database. Moreover, the situation as a whole 
has evidently caused Mr S some distress and disrupted his business. Some of that is 
an unfortunate consequence of the banks withdrawal of the Bounce Back Loan, 
which Ive found to be reasonable and so isnt something for which I think HSBC 
needs to pay him any compensation. But Mr S has also been caused avoidable upset 
and stress by the immediate withdrawal of his bank account and the registration of 
information about him with Cifas, which contributed to his feeling that he was being 
treated like a criminal. And while hes only spoken in quite general terms about the 
impact to his sole trader business, I can appreciate that having to arrange alternative 
banking facilities immediately would have been disruptive  and all the more 
challenging given the Cifas marker against him. Taking all of this into account, Im 
also intending to require HSBC to pay Mr S compensation of £500.
In his response, Mr S wished to highlight that the situation had significantly impacted him 
and his business. While his business had survived, he described a large toll having been 
taken both on his own life and mental health as well as that of his family. He also suggested 
that HSBC attempt him to contact him in other ways  such as email or letter  in the event 
that a problem cant be resolved over the phone, in view of English being his second 
language. And he asked that HSBC remove any other adverse records it may have filed 
against his name, in addition to the Cifas database.
HSBC responded to reassert that it had correctly deemed Mr Ss application to have been 
fraudulent, with the actions it took consequently being justified in light of that conclusion. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not seen cause to depart from my provisional decision. Ill explain why 
the further comments made by Mr S and HSBC havent led me to a different view.
Underpinning my provisional decision was my view that HSBC didnt act fairly or reasonably 
in deciding that Mr Ss loan application was fraudulent. I didnt think it had investigated the 
position thoroughly enough to reach that conclusion. And, if it had looked into things more 
thoroughly, I didnt think it wouldnt have grounds to reach that conclusion. Ive considered 
the banks further comments in this respect but it has largely restated the information that it 
had provided previously, which I had reviewed prior to reaching my provisional decision. So 
Ive not seen anything new that leads me to think any differently on this point. 
HSBC maintains that Mr S declared an incorrect business start date within his loan 
application. That may be the case. But that doesnt necessarily amount to fraud. I highlighted 
in my provisional decision that there may have been other causes as to why this discrepancy 
may have arisen, and other mitigating circumstances as to why it was difficult for Mr S to 
confirm and/or evidence the correct position. So while HSBC firmly maintains that Mr Ss 
conduct amounts to fraud, I dont consider this position to be fair or reasonable.I also note that HSBC has referred to the incorporation date of Mr Ss limited company 
(September 2020) as further evidence that he wasnt trading at the requisite time. But prior 
to the incorporation of his limited company, Mr S was operating as a sole trader (of which 
there is plentiful evidence. This irrelevant detail hasnt, therefore, led me to a different 
conclusion either.
Turning to Mr Ss additional comments, I should say that I am unaware of any other 
agencies  other than Cifas  to whom HSBC has referred any adverse information about 
him. The termination of the loan may have resulted in a default being recorded with credit 
reference agencies. But as I found that the bank had grounds to terminate the loan, theres 
no basis on which I could reasonably require this record to be removed. 
I note Mr Ss point that HSBC ought reasonably to attempt other means of contact if phone 
conversations dont yield the desired outcome. I would agree with that, while pointing out 
that he can also update his communication preferences with HSBC if he feels that other 
methods may be more appropriate or helpful for him. 
Lastly, I appreciate that this matter has taken a significant toll on Mr S. As noted in my 
provisional decision, much of the impact will have been caused by HSBCs withdrawal of the 
loan and account  which I think were legitimate actions, and therefore not matters for which 
I can award compensation. It is only the impact of the immediate withdrawal of the bank 
account and the registration of information about him with Cifas that I am requiring HSBC to 
compensate him for. And in that regard, I still think that £500 is fair compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he was caused. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Arrange for the removal of the fraud marker it registered against Mr S with Cifas, and
Pay Mr S compensation of £500
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman