DRN-4433124
The complaint
Ms M complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) took too long to credit money 
from her credit card account to her current account. She also complains about delays in 
branch.
What happened
Ms M held a credit card account and current account with Nationwide. Her credit card 
account was in credit, and she wanted the money to be transferred to her current account.
In April this year she attended her local branch to make the request. However, she ended up 
leaving because the branch was very busy, and it was taking too long for her to be seen. 
So, in early June she wrote to Nationwide and asked it to transfer the money from her credit 
card account to her current account.
Nationwide checked its systems but wasnt able to verify Ms Ms signature on the letter with 
any documents it held internally. So, it wrote to her and explained it couldnt credit her 
current account with the money as it wasnt able to confirm it was her signature. It explained 
that she could contact it by phone to make the request or attend a local branch.
Ms M was unhappy with this and raised a complaint. She also attended her branch and 
arranged for the transfer to be made from her credit card account to her current account. 
This was completed the following day.
Nationwide responded to Ms Ms concerns and explained it didnt think it had done anything 
wrong. It had searched its systems and wasnt able to match her signature with any 
documents it held on file. So, to ensure the security of her account it couldnt make the 
transfer without her either attending the branch or calling to make the request. It also 
apologised for any delays shed encountered whilst attending the branch.
Ms M remained unhappy and brought the complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into the matter and didnt think Nationwide had done anything wrong. Ms M disagreed 
and asked for an ombudsman to consider the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain my findings below.
Nationwide has explained that when a transfer request is made in writing it will check its 
system to verify and match the signature to ensure its a genuine request from the customer. 
If it is unable to verify the signature, it will ask for the customer to make the request either in 
branch (with forms of identification) or over the telephone where the customer will have to 
pass security questions. This is to ensure the security of the account. 
In Ms Ms case Nationwide were unable to verify her signature because it couldnt match it 
with any of the documents it had on file. I can see it informed her of this in a timely manner  
three days after her request. It also clearly explained in the letter to her the different ways 
she could make the request. So, Im satisfied Nationwide acted fairly in responding to Ms 
Ms request and explained the next steps clearly to her.
When Ms M attended the branch to make the transfer request, it was completed quickly, and 
the money was credited to her current account the following day. I think this is reasonable.
Nationwide has apologised for any delays Ms M encountered when she originally attended 
the branch in April. I think an apology is enough in the circumstances and I dont think 
Nationwide needs to do anything further.
I understand this isnt the outcome Ms M was hoping for, but in the circumstances, I think 
Nationwide was acting in her best interests. The reason it completes verification checks is to 
ensure fraudulent transactions cannot be made or requested.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I do not uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Rachel Killian
Ombudsman