DRN-2931848
Complaint
Mr R has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly increased his overdraft and 
continued applying charges when he was in financial difficulty.
  
Background
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that HSBC ought to have 
realised that Mr R was already struggling by December 2013 and so it shouldnt have 
provided the limit increases or added the charges it did from this point onwards. HSBC 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review this complaint.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think HSBC acted unfairly when it 
continued adding interest and associated fees and charges to Mr Rs overdraft from        
December 2013. By this point, it was evident Mr R was already struggling. A cursory look at 
his statements leading up to this period shows that hed regularly exceeded his existing limit 
on a number of occasions. 
It is also clear that Mr R was taking out payday loans with a significant number of lenders in 
an attempt to try and make ends meet and mask the fact that he was gambling heavily. So at 
this point, I think that HSBC ought to have realised that Mr R was unlikely to be able to 
sustainably repay his overdraft and should have stopped providing it on the same terms. It 
should have instead treated Mr R with forbearance, even if this meant taking corrective 
action in relation to the facility.
All of this means that HSBC should have realised that Mr R wasnt using his overdraft as 
intended and as the account conduct had suggested it had become unsustainable shouldnt 
have continued offering it on the same terms.
Ive seen what HSBC has said about our investigator retrospectively applying the repeat use 
overdraft rules. Im not sure why HSBC believes this given the investigator suggested it was 
irresponsible for HSBC to increase Mr Rs limit. But, in any event, industry codes of practice 
in place at the time and which HSBC signed up to, all refer to banks monitoring the using of 
an overdraft and offering assistance where financial difficulties  - such as here in Mr Rs case 
- are apparent. 
So Im satisfied HSBC has been judged against its obligations at the time rather than against 
rules which came into force a number of years later. And as HSBC didnt react to Mr Rs 
overdraft usage, as it ought to have done, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr R ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft at a time when 
he was already experiencing difficulty. So I think that Mr R lost out because of what HSBC 
did wrong and that it should put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Mr R
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Rs complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Rs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from December 2013 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mr R to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If HSBC considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Rs 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the account from December 2013.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr R along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Rs credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman