DRN-3136566
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the increase to their Aviva Insurance Limited home insurance 
premium.
Both Mr and Mrs B are named policyholders on their Aviva policy, so any claim or complaint 
is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information about the 
complaint has been provided by Mr B, Ill refer mainly to Mr B from here on.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out an Aviva home insurance policy in 2015 and renewed it each year.  
Mr B told us he unhappily accepted that his premium was likely to increase by a relatively 
small amount each year. However, in September 2021 Aviva quoted his new premium at 
£665.74  an increase of about £125, or 23%.
Mr B complained to Aviva about this. Aviva offered to reduce its quote by £18 but otherwise 
said the premium had been calculated correctly. It explained that it calculated premiums 
based on different risk factors that could vary each year. It also explained that Mr B was able 
to walk away if you find a better deal elsewhere.
Mr B was unhappy with this response. He wants Aviva to apologise and explain exactly why 
his premium increased by so much. Hed also like Aviva to compensate him. He brought his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He found that 
Aviva had calculated Mr Bs premium correctly, in line with its underwriting criteria. He also 
explained that Mr B had the right to shop around and thats what Aviva was saying when it 
told him he could find alternative cover if he wasnt happy with its quote. As such, he was 
satisfied that Aviva had acted fairly.
Mr B disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs annual premiums from policy inception in 2015 were:
2015 £661.93
2016 £668.58
2017 £558.74
2018 £533.00
2019 £550.72
2020 £540.86
2021 £665.74 
As Aviva explained, there are many factors that go into pricing risk. Each year its 
underwriters assess these factors, which means premiums can increase or decrease. Thats 
apparent from Mr Bs premium history.
This service wont normally take a view on whether a policy represents good value for 
money. We generally accept that insurers can charge what they like for insurance so long as 
they act fairly. In simple terms, this means insurers should apply their chosen pricing model 
consistently and offer customers the chance to shop around if they want. It looks like thats 
what Mr B did when the 2021 renewal quote was unacceptable to him. However, he told us 
he was unable to find a better quote so ended up renewing his Aviva policy.
We asked Aviva why Mr Bs premium increased significantly in 2021. Aviva has provided us 
with detailed information about the pricing of Mr Bs policy which Ive reviewed. Im afraid I 
cant share this information with Mr B because its commercially sensitive, but Ive analysed 
it very carefully. Having done so, Im satisfied that Aviva applied its pricing model to Mr Bs 
policy correctly, and in the same way as it would to other customers. So I dont think Mr B 
has been treated unfairly.
Mr B was unhappy with the tone of Avivas response to his complaint. As Ive noted above, 
some of Avivas risk modelling and pricing information is commercially sensitive, so I can 
understand why Aviva didnt give Mr B as detailed an explanation as he wanted. Also, Aviva 
is required to tell customers that theyve the right to shop around. I think thats what it was 
doing here when it told him he could walk away. So I dont think Avivas response to Mr Bs 
complaint was unreasonable.
Finally, Ive noted Mr Bs wider comments about the insurance industry and his belief that 
the biggest insurance companies operate a cartel. This service is here to investigate 
individual consumer complaints, not the wider business practices of the insurance industry. 
Thats the role of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). If Mr B wants 
to raise this with them, their contact details can be found at https://www.fca.org.uk/contact 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman