DRN-2234855
The complaint
Mr M complains that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC (RSA) is responsible for 
damage caused to his boiler and that it incorrectly deemed it beyond economical repair, 
under his home emergency policy.
Reference to RSA also includes its agents where applicable.
What happened
In May 2020 Mr M contacted RSA as his boiler had broken down. It sent an engineer who 
initially diagnosed that the circuit board was faulty and needed to be replaced. Later he 
found that the heat exchanger was also faulty and needed changing. He said that to carry 
out the repairs would cost £1,497. The policy limit was £1,000, which wouldve made the 
boiler beyond economic repair (BER). 
Due to the engineers assessment, RSA decided to instruct the boiler manufacturer (BM) to 
inspect the boiler and agreed a fixed price repair. Unfortunately, following this inspection, BM 
found that a bracket was corroded, which it said made it impossible to repair. Also, because 
of this, there was a potential of a gas leak and so the boiler was deemed too dangerous to 
work. BM then deemed the boiler BER and RSA issued its final response on this basis. 
Mr M wasnt happy with BMs assessment as he said its engineer damaged the boiler and he 
didnt believe that the boiler was BER. RSA told Mr M that he could get a second opinion, 
which he did. Mr M instructed another engineer to carry out the repair and submitted a report 
to RSA. RSA considered it and agreed to reimburse Mr Ms repair costs.
Mr M asked RSA to complete the outstanding repairs to the boiler and RSA asked BM to 
complete those repairs. BM refused to do so as it said that the boiler was BER and it viewed 
it as still dangerous. Mr M wasnt happy by this outcome and made a complaint to our 
service. 
Ultimately, our investigator didnt uphold his complaint She said that:
RSA had dealt with Mr M fairly.
RSAs engineer deemed the boiler BER but when Mr M objected, RSA instructed the 
BM to assess the boiler. The BM also deemed the boiler BER.
So RSA did try to assist but it doesnt seem to have explained its actions. So she 
recommended that RSA write to Mr M to explain its calculations. And apart from this, 
there was nothing further she could ask RSA to reasonably do. 
Mr M didnt accept our investigators view as he said that the gas valve wasnt corroded nor 
was the lug loose. The BM had damaged the boiler further and RSA havent provided any 
evidence to say why the boiler was BER. So he asked for an ombudsman decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mr M, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
Mr M was adamant that there was no corroding of the gas valve nor was the lug loose and 
that it was the BM who had damaged the boiler further. I have reviewed the report from Mr 
Ms engineer and he said: This is to confirm that the rusty gas valve and lug has been 
replaced.. 
I think this evidence clearly shows that there was corrosion of the gas valve, although I 
accept that Mr Ms engineer did manage to replace both parts. So I think it was fair for RSA 
to have also deemed that there was corrosion. 
Following this, RSA reimbursed Mr M engineers costs and on Mr Ms request asked the BM 
to carry out the additional repairs to the boiler. Those additional repairs the BM refused to 
complete.
I have listened to a call recording in which RSA explain to Mr M why the BM refused to carry 
out the additional repairs. It seems the reason for the refusal was because the BM deemed 
Mr Ms boiler to be BER and wouldnt be able to confirm that the boiler was safe and in line 
with its instructions - despite Mr M replacing the parts.
In addition, RSA also relied upon the evidence from its engineer who originally deemed the 
boiler BER. So I dont think that it was unreasonable for RSA to place significant weight on 
the BM and its engineers assessments, when it confirmed that the boiler was BER.
Mr M also complains that RSA hadnt provided any evidence as to why the boiler was BER. 
Having reviewed the evidence, I can see that RSA told Mr M that the first engineer deemed 
his boiler BER as it was over the policy limit of £1,000. The BM confirmed that it also 
deemed the boiler BER due to the various parts that needed to be replaced and safety 
issues. 
RSA had previously negotiated a fixed price repair with the BM. I asked about the reason for 
this and it said that its best practice was to instruct the BM as it would mean lower costs and 
time spent on repairs for customers.  And a one-off fixed price repair would mean that the 
BM would be in the best suitable position to guarantee a first-time fix. So I think it was 
reasonable for RSA to have negotiated the fixed price repair to keep costs low for Mr M. 
And, I dont think it can be blamed for the BM refusing to complete the additional repairs to 
the boiler. 
Taking this all into account, I think that RSA has dealt with Mr M reasonably and I am 
satisfied that it applied the policy terms fairly. So I cant reasonably ask RSA to do anything 
more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, for the reasons givenUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman