DRN-3820112
The complaint
Mr B complains that Ageas Insurance Limited has declined his claim under his let property 
insurance for malicious damage by a tenant, as it has said that the exclusion for illegal 
activities applies. Although the claim was handled by a claim handling company, for 
convenience Ill refer to Ageas throughout.
What happened
Mr B has a let property insurance policy with Ageas in his name. In early March 2022, his 
tenant abandoned his let property. He employed a Clearance Company to remove and 
dispose of any remaining items. On doing this they checked out the loft/roof space to see if 
there were any personal items stored. They found it had been fitted out with equipment 
required to grow cannabis. The Police were called and came out to examine the area, and 
found no drugs or plants on the premises. They instructed Mr B to clear the space and 
dispose of the equipment.
On clearing the roof space it was discovered that a number of roof supports had been cut,
and malicious damage had been caused deliberately by the tenant, which rendered the 
integrity of the roof unsafe. Mr B made a claim to Ageas. He advises that the Police have 
charged the tenant with malicious damage (not cultivation of drugs).
Ageas declined the claim because of a general exclusion in the policy for loss or damage 
caused as a result of the property being used for illegal activities. It further said that under 
the malicious damage cover there was an exclusion for loss or damage by persons to whom 
the property has been lent, licensed, or sub-let.
Mr B said that having spoken to the Police they had confirmed that there was nothing illegal 
in installing any paraphernalia for growing plants, it was only illegal to grow drugs. He says 
he has lost out financially by the malicious damage caused to the property and is unable to 
relet the property.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Investigator said Ageas had acted in 
line with policy terms and conditions, so didnt think it needed to do anything further.
Mr B didnt agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for any upset this might cause, I think Ageas acted reasonably and in line with 
the policy terms and conditions in declining the claim. I set out below why I think thats the 
case.
The policy says, under General Exclusions (i.e. exclusions that apply to the whole policy): 
8. Illegal Activities Clause 
It is hereby noted and agreed that We will not pay for any loss or damage caused as a result 
of the property being used for illegal activities.
Mr B argues, because of what he has been told by the Police, that just installing the 
equipment isnt illegal. I think from the Polices perspective they had to decide if a criminal 
offence had been committed, and, presumably, decided not to charge the Tenant with drug 
related offences. 
But the Police dont make judgements about insurance coverage. The illegal activities clause 
is quite common in buy to let policies. And I think its reasonable to say that carrying out 
preparation in order to start growing cannabis constitutes an illegal activity.
So while I think its not disputed that the damage was clearly malicious I think it does, in 
these circumstances, constitute an illegal activity, and is therefore caught by the exclusion 
above.
Ive noted that Ageas also cited an exclusion which applied to the malicious damage cover 
for loss or damage by persons to whom the Property has been lent, licensed, or sub-let. 
Assuming that the tenant caused the damage (which appears likely) that exclusion seems to 
me to be irrelevant. It might cover the situation where the tenant allowed someone else to 
install the equipment, but as I say I dont think it applies in this case.
So overall, I think that carrying out preparation for the criminal offence of drug cultivation is 
an illegal activity so Ageas acted fairly in declining the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman