DRN-2039110
The complaint
Mr A, Mrs B and Ms S (the policyholders) complain the Society of Lloyds (SoL) have 
unfairly declined their buildings insurance claim.
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point that has been made.
The policyholders purchased the freehold to their property in January 2019  and took a 
buildings insurance policy with SoL around this time.
In February 2019, one of the policyholders said they noticed some external cracking on the 
building when driving past. But they didnt believe this to be anything serious at the time. In 
June 2019 the policyholders reported damage to SoL after noticing cracks to the walls, both 
internally and externally. 
SoL sent an engineer to inspect the property. The engineer inspected the outside of the 
property - and part of the inside. One of the policyholders said the engineer told them the 
issues had likely been caused by the drainage system.
SoL raised concerns about the maintenance of the property  as regular maintenance of the 
property is a condition of the policy. SoL also had concerns about whether the information 
about the propertys condition provided by the policyholders at the time of taking the policy 
had been accurate.
However, SoL ultimately declined the claim in September 2019, as the issues had occurred 
before the start of the policy. SoL provided Google Earth images which it says supports this. 
They told the policyholders to contact the propertys previous insurer.
Unhappy with SoLs response to their complaint, the policyholders brought their complaint to 
our service.
Our Investigator didnt recommend we uphold this complaint. She said from the information 
provided she was more persuaded the issues pre-existed the start of the policy, so she didnt 
think SoL had acted unfairly in declining the claim.
The policyholders didnt agree with our investigator. So the complaint has now passed to 
me. The policyholders also provided further points for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the policyholders have strong views about what has happened. I want to assure 
them Ive read and considered carefully everything theyve told me. 
But I hope they wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central 
issues, and not all the points raised, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to 
address every single point the parties have raised or to answer every question asked. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by them and by SoL and reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
Having done so I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy says it covers loss or damage to the customers buildings during the period of 
insurance. 
SoL declined the claim because they said the damage pre dates the start of the policy. 
Theyve provided photos from an inspection of the property carried out in August 2019. 
There are several photos showing the external part of the property  including signs of the 
damage. One of these photos shows a crack running from a ground level window, to the 
window at the next level.
SoL also provided Google Earth Images from 2015 and 2018. The photos show the same 
part of the property as described above. In the image from 2018, the damage looks to be 
identical to the photos taken in August 2019  with the crack running from a ground level 
window to the next level. 
The image from 2015, also shows the cracking in the same place - although the cracking is 
not as clear as in 2018 or 2019. I can also see SoLs engineer said in their report the shape 
and pattern of the cracks would indicate foundation instability. Foundation instability, and the 
related damage it can cause, usually tends to occur over a longer period. And based on the 
information Ive seen, Im more persuaded by what SoL have said  the damage had 
occurred before the start of the policy. So I wont be interfering with SoLs decision to decline 
the claim.
SoL also raised concerns regarding the regular maintenance of the property, as their 
investigations highlighted concerns about its general condition.  But as I wont be interfering 
in SoLs decision to decline the claim for the reasons given above, I dont think its necessary 
to comment on this here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr A, Mrs B and Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A, Mrs B and 
Ms S to accept or reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman