DRN-3558801
The complaint
Mr B complains about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CG) rejecting a 
claim under his pet insurance policy for treatment to his dog, because it was overweight.
References to CG include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
Mr B had a dog covered by a pet insurance policy with CG, taken out in December 2020. In 
March 2021 the dog started limping, so Mr B took it to a vet. The vet referred the dog to a 
specialist clinic (M), who diagnosed the dog needed surgery for a condition known as 
Osteochondritis dissecans (OCD1).M performed surgery on the dog (July 2021) and Mr B 
submitted a claim to CG for the cost (£2,172.12).
CG considered the claim but rejected it on the grounds the dog was overweight. They said 
the policy didnt cover a condition where a pet had been deemed overweight and had a 
condition associated with being overweight. CG referred to notes from the vet indicating the 
dog weighed 28kg (in April 2021) and had a Body Condition Score (BCS) of 7/9 (which 
would indicate the dog was overweight).
 
The vet provided further information in response to the decline, saying a more recent 
examination (September 2021) indicted a BCS of 5/9, which would not be classified as 
overweight. CG reassessed the claim, but they maintained their decline, referring to the 
earlier clinical notes. their view being the dog was overweight and this was a contributing 
factor to the OCD. 
Unhappy at the rejection of his claim, Mr B complained. But CG didnt uphold his complaint. 
In their final response they said when she took out his policy, the terms and conditions made 
it clear it wouldnt provide cover if a pet was overweight and had an associated condition. 
CG noted the dogs clinical history (April 2021) included a comment from the vet that the dog 
was overweight. CG also noted the vets subsequent further information but said they had to 
take the vets initial response (which referred to the April 2021 comment) not the subsequent 
information. CG also said the dog being overweight could lead to degeneration in cartilage 
and joints. Based on this, CG confirmed their decline of Mr Bs claim.
Unhappy at CGs response, Mr B complained to this service. The main part of his complaint 
was that CG had unfairly declined his claim on the grounds his dog was overweight. He said 
the vet who treated the dog had confirmed the dogs weight wasnt relevant to the condition 
for which the dog had been treated. He also noted the vets reference to the dogs BCS 
score of 5/9 (in September 2021). He wanted CG to accept the claim and reimburse him for 
the £2,082.12 hed had to pay for the treatment.
Our investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint, concluding CG hadnt acted fairly by using the 
exclusion relating to a dog being overweight. She noted reference in the clinical history to the 
1 OCD is an abnormal development of bone from cartilage affecting joints in large dogs, particularly rapidly 
growing large or giant breed dogs. It tends to be seen more in male dogs, likely a result of their larger size. 
dog being overweight, but Ms view there wasnt an obvious instigating cause and that being 
overweight didnt fit with it being the cause of the OCD. She also considered the points and 
references to clinical sources provided by CG, but on balance didnt think CG had done 
enough to show the dog being overweight was the cause of the condition. So, CG hadnt 
acted in applying the exclusion to decline the claim. To put things right, the investigator 
thought CG pay the claim in accordance with the remaining policy terms, without using the 
exclusion. CG should also pay interest from the date Mr B paid for the treatment (less any 
excess payable under the policy) to the date it reimbursed him.
CG disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In disagreeing, they said the policy terms about the exclusion for a pet being 
overweight were clear and they didnt agree the dogs weight didnt have an impact on the 
dogs lameness (and the clinical notes mentioned the dog being overweight when reference 
to the lameness was made, as well as a reference to must lose weight). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether CG has acted fairly towards Mr B.
 
The main issue in Mr Bs complaint is whether CG acted fairly in declining his claim by 
applying the policy exclusion for his dog being overweight. Mr B says CG acted unfairly in 
applying the exclusion, as the dogs weight wasnt relevant to the condition and treatment of 
his dog, as the vet (M) who treated the dog stated. 
CG say it was fair to use the exclusion to decline Mr Bs claim. They refer to the dogs 
clinical history which they say indicates it was overweight, and that this is mentioned 
alongside the references to lameness in the period leading up to the surgery. They also say 
the dog being overweight could lead to degeneration in cartilage and joints. 
Ive considered both views carefully, including the relevant terms and conditions of the policy 
(particularly those referred to by CG in their final response) together with the supporting 
information and evidence, including the regular vets statement, the statement from M and 
the clinical history of Mr Bs dog. Looking at the policy terms and conditions first, CG refer to 
the Insurance Product Information Document that states:
What is not insured?
Any claims resulting from Your pet being medically overweight or underweight and 
this results in Your pet needing Treatment as a result of not being the recommended 
medical weight for its age, breed type and sex as recommended by a Vet. 
Similar terms and conditions are included under Veterinary Fees as part of a claim. 
The first point to consider is whether Mr Bs dog was overweight. The dogs clinical history 
indicates its weight was 28kg in April 2021 (when the dog was seen by the vet for lameness) 
and reference made to being overweight. This information was initially provided to CG by the 
vat on request in September 2021. However, the vet then clarified their response to say they 
examined the dog later in September, recording a weight of 33.6kg and had given the dog a 
BCS of 5/9 (indicating it wasnt overweight, as the dog was growing over the period). 
Thinking about these points, while the dog was subsequently said not to be overweight, that 
was at a point some two months after the surgery  whereas three months before surgery it was noted to be overweight. Based on these points, I think its reasonable to conclude the 
dog was overweight ahead of the surgery. 
The second point to consider is whether the dogs weight led to the condition (OCD) that was 
diagnosed and for which surgery was carried out. So, whether it was reasonable for CG to 
apply the exclusion to decline the claim. As a general principle, where an insurer relies on an 
exclusion, the onus is on them to show its reasonable to apply it.
 
However, Im not persuaded CG acted fairly and reasonably in applying the overweight 
exclusion to decline this element of the claim. I say that because the policy wording above 
(my emphasis in bold) refers to claims resulting from Your pet being medically overweight 
or underweight and this results in Your pet needing Treatment as a result of not being the 
recommended medical weight for its age, breed type and sex as recommended by a Vet.
Given this wording, the onus is on CG to show the claim (surgery) was caused by the dog 
being overweight. CG say the dog being overweight could lead to degeneration in cartilage 
and joints. While they acknowledge (when confirming their decline of the claim following 
reassessment) the dogs weight may not have been the only cause, they thought being 
overweight would be a contributing factor for the condition.
Mr B says the views of his vet and M (as the treating vet) support his view the condition 
wasnt caused by his dogs weight. In particular, M states the following:
The pathophysiology of osteochondrosis is not well understood, large bree dogs are 
over represented as are males  both the case here. That fact that [dog] is 
overweight does not fit with this being the cause of his OCD as his lesion presents in 
the standard expected location and in a breed which presents with the condition 
regardless of the weight of the presenting animal.
As M was the vet who performed the surgery (and would have examined the dog to 
determine the diagnosis) I find this opinion persuasive, as it clearly states the dog being 
overweight doesnt fit with it being the cause of the OCD. 
Taking all these points into account, while being overweight may have increased the general 
risk of OCD (as the published sources suggest) Ms opinion about Mr Bs dog indicates this 
isnt the case here. CG havent shown enough to apply the exclusion in the circumstances of 
this case. So, Ive concluded CG acted unfairly to apply the exclusion to decline the claim.
Given these conclusions, Ive thought about what CG need to do to put things right. As I 
dont think they can rely on the exclusion for the dog being overweight, then they should 
settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, including any 
limits on the costs of treatment and any policy excess (as appropriate).
 
In settling the claim, as Mr B has already paid for the cost of the surgery (£2,082.12  being 
the claim cost of £2,172.12 less the policy excess of £90) CG should also pay interest at a 
rate of 8% simple on the amount settled from the date Mr B paid for the surgery to the date 
they settle it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint. I require 
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Settle Mr Bs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, 
including any limits on the costs of treatment and any policy excess (as appropriate).In settling the claim, as Mr B has already paid for the cost of the surgery (£2,082.12), 
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd should also pay interest at a rate of 
8% simple on the amount settled from the date Mr B paid for the surgery to the date they 
settle it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman