DRN-3178758
Complaint
Mrs W has complained that TSB Bank plc (TSB) lent to her irresponsibly as it provided her 
with an unaffordable loan. 
Background
TSB provided Mrs W with a loan of £3,000.00 in March 2017. This loan had an APR of 
18.9% and a 48-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of £4,190.88 was 
due to be repaid in 48 instalments of £87.31
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that TSB unfairly provided this 
loan as its checks ought to have alerted it to the fact that the lending was unsustainable for 
Mrs W. TSB disagreed with our investigator and the case was passed to an ombudsman to 
review the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mrs Ws complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mrs Ws complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did TSB complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs W 
would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs W wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did TSB act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did TSB complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Mrs W would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
TSB provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required TSB to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of Mrs Ws ability to make the repayments under this 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so TSB had to think about whether repaying the 
loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mrs W. In practice this meant that 
TSB had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mrs W undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for TSB to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs W. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were TSBs checks reasonable and proportionate?
TSB final response suggests that it took into consideration how Mrs W managed her 
accounts with TSB as well as information supplied by credit reference agencies before 
deciding to provide this loan. It also said that if Mrs W had made a branch or telephone 
application it would have collected income and expenditure information to help her decide 
how much she could afford to pay. 
 
But as Mrs W chose to apply for this loan online it assumed shed decided how much she 
wished to borrow and she could afford to repay. The final response even goes on to suggest 
that Mrs W should have completed an online affordability guide to help her decide these 
matters. TSB says it has no record of the income Mrs W declared at the time of the 
application because the loan was applied for online.Before I look in more detail at the checks TSBs says it carried out in this particular case, I 
have some observations about its general comments. It appears to have suggested that, as 
the application took place online, Mrs W was responsible for ensuring the monthly payments 
were affordable for her. 
But Im not aware of anything in the rules and regulations, or even the industry codes of 
practice, which state, or even infer, that lesser standards or a lesser duty of care applies to 
affordability assessments conducted for online applications. So to be clear and for the 
avoidance of doubt as the regulated firm here it was TSBs responsibility to assess whether 
the payments were affordable, notwithstanding the fact that Mrs W made this application 
online.
I now turn to what TSB says it did. I have given consideration to the fact that as the monthly 
payments were relatively low a lighter-touch affordability assessment might have had the 
potential to have been proportionate here. But Im mindful that TSB says how Mrs W 
managed her existing TSB accounts and credit reference agency information were key 
considerations in its decision to lend here. And I can see that Mrs W had been regularly 
using her overdraft and had at least one loan application, with TSB itself, declined in the 
months leading up to this application.  
Bearing in mind TSB appears to have based its information on this and I cant see that it 
obtained anything else to indicate that the loan was affordable, Im not persuaded that it did 
carry out reasonable and proportionate checks before providing Mrs W with this loan.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks more likely than not have shown that Mrs W 
was able to sustainably make the repayments to this loan?
As proportionate checks werent carried out before this agreement was provided, I cant say 
for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely than not that 
a proportionate check would have told TSB that it was unfair to provide this loan to Mrs W. 
Mrs W has provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances (in the form of a 
common financial statement completed as part of an application for a debt management 
plan) not too long after her application for this loan. Of course, I accept different checks 
might show different things. And just because something shows up in the information Mrs W 
has provided, it doesnt mean it wouldve shown up in any checks TSB mightve carried out. 
But as the common financial statement provided was completed much closer to the 
application than TSBs more recently reconstructed assessments, and at least some of the 
information corresponds with whats on Mrs Ws bank statements, I think its perfectly fair 
and reasonable to place more weight on it as an indication of what Mrs Ws financial 
circumstances were more likely than not to have been at the time of the application. 
Having considered the information on the statement, its clear that Mrs Ws monthly living 
costs (not including her payments to existing creditors) far exceeded her income. And it 
seems to me that she didnt have sufficient funds to repay what she already owed, let alone 
make payments to further credit. In reaching my conclusions, Ive noted that TSB has 
referred to further borrowing Mrs W took out after this loan. But notwithstanding the relatively 
low monthly payment on this loan, Mrs W simply didnt have enough to make the payments 
even if her payments to other creditors were and are excluded.  
So overall and having carefully considered everything, Im satisfied that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would have alerted TSB to the fact that Mrs W wasnt able to make the 
payments to this agreement. And so such checks, had they been carried out at the time, 
would more likely than not have shown TSB it shouldnt have provided this loan. Did TSB act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs W in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that TSB acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs W in some other way. So I 
dont think TSB acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs W in some other way.
Did Mrs W lose out as a result of TSB unfairly providing her with this loan?
As Mrs W paid interest and charges on a loan that she shouldnt have been provided with, 
Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of what TSB did wrong.
So I think that TSB needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what TSB needs to do to put things right for Mrs W
Having thought about everything, TSB should put things right for Mrs W by:
refunding any interest and charges Mrs W paid on this loan;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded amounts from the date they were 
paid by Mrs W to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ws credit file as a result of this 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TSB to take off tax from this interest. TSB must give   
Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint. TSB Bank plc needs to put 
things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman