DRN-3316833
The complaint
Ms G has complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) rejected her claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to her purchase of 
some solar panels.
Background
Ms G bought solar panels for her home in or around June 2016. The purchase was funded 
by a loan from Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of 
the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Ms G into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Ms Gs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Ms G. Since Ms G had already settled her loan using 
another loan from a third party, the adjudicator said that fair redress would be for Shawbrook 
to first calculate how the original loan could have been restructured to effectively make the 
panels self-funding, based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels and a 
number of assumptions on future performance (the self-funding amount). Shawbrook 
should then pay Ms G the difference between what she paid in total and the self-funding 
amount, with 8% interest, and including any refinancing costs.
Shawbrook accepted this opinion in principle, but it asked for further evidence to show that 
the refinancing had indeed taken place. This was provided to Shawbrook, but it didnt 
respond, so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Ms G was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So I think that Shawbrook didnt treat Ms G fairly and she lost out because of what 
Shawbrook did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
I have seen Ms Gs bank statements which show the third party loan being paid into her 
account and then being used to repay the Shawbrook loan. (This has already been shared 
with Shawbrook.) I am satisfied by this evidence that the refinancing did take place as 
described, and that the adjudicators proposed redress is fair.
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Gs complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by, first, recalculating 
the original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Ms G from the 
solar panels over the ten year term of the loan so she would have been liable to pay no more 
than that, and on the basis that she will keep the solar panel system, and any future benefits.
If the calculation shows that Ms G has paid more than she should have, then Shawbrook 
needs to reimburse her accordingly. (Should the calculation show that the misrepresentation 
has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with her by way of 
explanation.)
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then, since Ms G has settled the loan by refinancing, 
Shawbrook must: 
1. Refund the extra Ms G paid each month with the Shawbrook loan.
2. Add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of each payment until Ms G receives 
her refund.
3. Refund the extra Ms G paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of each payment until Ms G receives 
her refund.
5. Pay Ms G the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she would 
have owed if the system had been self-funding.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Ms G first 
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld in principle. So I direct 
that Shawbrook must pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint. Shawbrook must put things 
right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman