DRN-3926705
The complaint
Miss K complains about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc handled her claim following an 
accident.
Where I refer to AXA, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
On 26 August 2022 Miss K was involved in a road traffic accident where her car 
collided with a crossing island on her way home from work. She called AXA the next 
day to report the incident and her car was collected by the authorised repairers on    
1 September 2022. However, the courtesy car provided to Miss K was faulty and she 
didnt get a replacement until 14 September 2022.
The terms of the policy state that Miss K will be provided with a courtesy car following 
an accident while her car is being repaired by AXAs authorised repairer. So, she 
could reasonably expect to receive a useable vehicle when her car was taken in for 
repairs. But Miss K didnt receive a useable courtesy car until 12 days after her car 
had been taken for repairs.
I appreciate Miss K has said the return journey to and from her place of work cost her 
£60 per day in taxi fares when she was without a vehicle, but Im not persuaded this 
was reasonable, as Miss K could have used alternative public transport although I 
accept this may have been more inconvenient for her. The terms and conditions say, 
If a courtesy car cannot be arranged, we will repay your alternative travelling costs 
up to a maximum of £15 per day.  So in the circumstances Im satisfied AXA should 
reimburse her in line with the policy terms. 
Miss K said AXA offered her £250 towards the costs of her travel expenses but I 
havent been provided any evidence of this. Where the evidence is incomplete (as it 
is here), inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what is considered most likely to have happened given the 
evidence that is available to me, and the wider surrounding circumstances.  
Miss K initially told us she had an email from AXA with confirmation of this offer 
however later she said this offer was made during a call with AXA. AXA havent been 
able to provide us with the call recordings, but I have been provided a copy of its 
internal notes and records and there is nothing to suggest this offer was made. So 
Im not persuaded AXA made her an offer of £250 towards her travel expenses.
Miss K had to chase to ensure her claim was progressed and she received very little 
in terms of meaningful updates on the repairs of her car. Miss K also encountered a 
number of issues with the repairs to her car, including incorrect coolant being added 
and repairs to damaged bodywork not being carried out. 
When the repair was eventually completed the car was returned to Miss K around   
24 December 2022, but it needed to be taken back for a further issue with the car 
boot door. The total time taken for Miss K to have her fully repaired car was almost 
four months from the incident. 
Im not persuaded that AXA handled Miss Ks claim promptly. I say this because 
almost four months is an excessive amount of time to have the repairs completed 
especially when the repairers are ones selected and approved by the insurer itself. In 
addition, there was a clear lack of communication and urgency during this time, and it 
seems the claim was only progressed, and an update provided when Miss K initiated 
contact.  
Considering everything, I agree with our investigator that AXAs poor service caused Miss K 
significant and prolonged inconvenience in what would already have been a difficult time for 
her. While I appreciate Miss K would have suffered some inconvenience in the process of 
dealing with a claim of this nature this was only exacerbated by the poor service. Taking this 
into account Im satisfied that £500 is a fair and reasonable amount to compensate Miss K 
for the distress and inconvenience caused to her and its in line with what Id expect in these 
circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance UK 
Plc to:
pay Miss K £180 for travel expenses incurred when without a courtesy car, and
pay Miss K £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman