DRN-3873818
The complaint
Miss M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wouldnt provide her with a mortgage for a 
property she bought at auction, so she lost her deposit and had to pay other non-recoverable 
fees.
What happened
Miss M, a first-time buyer, was the successful bidder for a property at auction on 15 
February 2021. She had 45 days to complete the purchase. The property had a sitting tenant 
and as it was during the period of the Coronavirus Pandemic the tenant required a six-month 
notice period. Miss M applied for a residential mortgage with Barclays on 24 February 2021. 
Barclays issued a mortgage offer on 10 March 2021 although the valuer indicated that the 
property was tenanted. Because of an error on the offer the bank issued a further mortgage 
offer on 18 March 2021. But then later in the month, Barclays pulled the offer when it 
realised that there was a sitting tenant. Miss M tried to get finance elsewhere and the 
auctioneers extended the deadline by 10 working days but by the time it was granted the 
auctioneers extended deadline had passed.
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint initially but then its view changed. It says that the 
mortgage adviser made Miss M aware that vacant possession would be necessary if the 
mortgage was to proceed but the underwriter shouldnt have issued the mortgage offer on 10 
March as had been aware from the valuer that there was a tenant in the property and offered 
compensation of £250.
Miss M says that the issue is that as a consequence of Barclays mistake namely twice 
issuing a mortgage offer incorrectly that she lost the time needed to make other 
arrangements and ended up having to pay substantial costs including agents fees etc.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M bought the property at auction on 15 February and had a discussion with a mortgage 
adviser and submitted a mortgage application on the property on 24 February 2021. Miss M 
says that the advisor didnt ask about the tenant or whether she wanted a buy to let or 
residential mortgage. The adviser says that she told Miss M that Barclays would require 
vacant possession.
I dont have the phone call relevant to this discussion, but I wouldnt expect the adviser to 
advise on whether Miss M should take it out as a buy to let or residential mortgage. Miss M 
was a first-time buyer going to live in the property so it would have to be a residential 
mortgage. As I dont have the call I dont know whether a tenant was mentioned or not. Its 
possible that both parties assumed at the time that the tenant would move out and that on 
completion there would be vacant possession and, so, the application moved on.
It seems that the valuer picked up that there was a sitting tenant, but this was ignored by the 
underwriter and a mortgage offer then issued on 10 March and not rescinded until 31 March. 
By that stage Barclays had become aware that the property was tenanted, and vacant 
possession wouldnt be available. The Banks Residential Lending Policy - and I suspect this 
is common to most residential mortgage lenders - is that it must have vacant possession on 
completion. Its clear that Miss M suffered a financial loss in this transaction and given her 
circumstances its a loss I imagine that it will be hard to bear given her circumstances. 
I have to consider whether Barclays should be held responsible for that loss. Miss M, a first-
time buyer was the successful bidder for the property at auction on 15 February 2021 but 
wasnt able to complete in time which meant that she lost her deposit and had to pay 
auctioneer and other fees. It seems to me that Miss M had a problem from the start of this 
process. She wanted to buy a property to live in, but the property was tenanted. To live in 
the property, she would require a residential mortgage, but a residential mortgage provider 
would normally require, as Barclays did here, vacant possession of the property. So, Miss M 
would inevitably have a problem with getting a residential mortgage over tenanted property.  
Despite this difficulty Miss M went ahead with the purchase of the property at auction 
committing herself to the possibility of losing her deposit and other fees if she couldnt 
complete the purchase in time. Significantly Miss M committed herself to this before she had 
spoken to Barclays about the project. I believe this is significant because Miss M feels that 
Barclays should meet these costs because of a delay by Barclays in recognising that this 
was a project it wasnt prepared to lend money on. Theres no doubt that there were delays 
and errors by Barclays but Barclays didnt advise Miss M to go ahead with the purchase  so 
I dont consider it fair that it should be made to pay the costs of the purchase not proceeding. 
If Miss M hadnt agreed the strict timetable, Barclays delay would have caused her no loss. 
She would have plenty of time to see if she could go and get her mortgage elsewhere. But 
because she agreed a strict timetable she found herself in difficulties. So, I dont consider 
that Barclays should be at fault because Miss M had tied herself into a strict timetable for 
completion and on that basis I dont uphold this complaint. 
There is a separate issue as to whether completion could have gone ahead if Barclays had 
identified the problem with the mortgage sooner. I understand that there was a legal difficulty 
about a lease which may have required a title indemnity policy and Miss M dismissed her 
solicitor which would have caused some delay in the process. Its also not clear to me how 
Miss M could have completed a residential mortgage on a property that had a sitting tenant. 
Miss M has supplied an email from a finance company directed to her uncle dated 30 April 
2021 as evidence of the application made she says on her behalf by her uncle to try and 
save the purchase. That is a month after Barclays had rescinded the offer. But at that stage, 
they had only got a provisional indication of prospective terms for a bridging loan. Clearly, 
that was at a very early stage, indeed there there was yet no application, and isnt 
convincing evidence that had Barclays not issued the mortgage offer that Miss M could have 
got finance for her purchase elsewhere and completed the purchase on time.
Miss M feels let down by Barclays and its agreed that she was let down by its service. But 
the substantial losses that Miss M suffered was not the fault of Barclays but of her agreeing 
a strict timetable for completion because of the nature of the auction process, I agree that 
Barclays should have provided a better service to Miss M. Barclays in fact agrees and 
offered compensation of £250 which I consider appropriate. But for the above reasons I cant 
fairly uphold this complaint.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman