DRN-2875228
The complaint
Ms C and Mr J complain because UK Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt paid a claim under 
their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J holds a travel insurance policy as a benefit of his bank account. Ms C is also insured 
under the policy. 
Ms C and Mr J were due to fly abroad in February 2020. Unfortunately, the visa Ms C 
needed didnt arrive in time, so they were unable to travel. This was because the office 
where the visa was being processed was closed due to the circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19.
Mr J made a claim with UKI for their unused and other costs but UKI said the claim wasnt 
covered as his travel insurance policy contains an exclusion for cancellation due to not 
having the correct passport or visa. 
Ms C and Mr J complained to UKI. UKI said its decision to decline the claim was correct but 
it offered Mr J £100 compensation in recognition of his difficulties contacting it as well as its 
delays in telling Mr J his claim wasnt covered. 
As Ms C and Mr J remained unhappy, they brought their complaint to the attention of our 
service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said she didnt think UKI had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably by declining Ms C and Mr Js claim. Ms C and Mr J didnt agree with 
our investigators opinion so their complaint has been referred to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules say an insurer must handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a 
claim. Ive had regard to these rules when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Ms C and Mr Js complaint. 
No travel insurance policy covers every situation. The level of cover provided by the 
insurance is set out in the policy terms, conditions and exclusions. The terms and conditions 
of Mr Js policy say that UKI will pay for certain costs if a trip is cancelled because one of a 
list of specific, defined events happens. These are:
Death, illness or injury of certain individuals;
Court cases and quarantine;
Unemployment of certain individuals;
Armed forces and emergency services members having their leave cancelled;
Fire, storm, flood or burglary;
Pet emergency;
Passports or Visas being stolen in the seven days prior to travel;
The Foreign & Commonwealth Office advising against travel;
Natural disaster (where the policyholder is unable to use their accommodation due to 
the immediately surrounding area being badly affected);
Vehicle accident or breakdown;
Pregnancy;
Vaccinations.
Even if I accept, as Mr J has submitted, that the reason for the cancellation of this trip was 
Covid-19 rather than the visa delay, this claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions 
of the policy as it didnt arise from one of the listed insured events.  
Mr J has mentioned a statement by the insurer that Covid-19 related claims would be 
covered up until mid-March 2020. But the Covid-19 related cover provided by UKI isnt 
unlimited and only applies in certain situations. These are, for example, if the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office was advising against travel to a policyholders intended destination 
because of Covid-19 either before or at the time of their planned trip, or if a policyholder was 
prevented from using their accommodation due to a natural disaster (including a pandemic) 
in the immediately surrounding area. Ms C and Mr Js claim doesnt meet either of these 
criteria.  
Mr J has also mentioned Abandoned outbound departure cover. Cover under this section of 
the policy only applies if the policyholder is delayed at an airport, port or station for more 
than 12 hours, which isnt what happened here. 
There is no section of Mr Js policy which provides cover for his claim  regardless of 
whether the reason for the claim was Covid-19 or the visa delay. 
Mr Js policy specifically excludes cover for the following;
Any cancellation that happens when you do not have the correct passport or visa for 
your trip
I dont think this is an unusual exclusion. In my experience of dealing with complaints of this 
type, its very rare for a travel insurer to provide cover for cancellation of a holiday in the 
event of a visa failing to arrive when expected (regardless of the reason for the delay). 
I understand Ms C and Mr J applied for Ms Cs visa well in advance and have many years 
experience in applying for such visas. I also understand that, if it werent for the 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19, its likely Ms Cs visa would have arrived in time for 
their trip and the delay wasnt down to any error or fault on the part of Ms C and Mr J. 
However, these factors dont change my decision  Mr Js travel insurance policy simply 
doesnt provide any cover for the circumstances which he and Ms C found themselves in. 
Mr J has commented on what he says are factual inaccuracies in UKIs records of his 
telephone conversations. I havent relied on these records in reaching my decision and the 
content of any telephone conversations between UKI and Mr J would not make any 
difference to the limitations of the insurance cover which Mr J holds. 
I note Mr J says he unsuccessfully tried to get through to UKI on numerous occasions, which 
I have no doubt will have been extremely frustrating. UKI has offered Mr J £100 compensation for the impact of the situation on him and I think this is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms C and Mr J, but I wont be asking UKI to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
UK Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay Ms C and Mr J £100 compensation 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. UK Insurance Limited should pay Ms C 
and Mr J £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman