DRN-3616922
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Honeycomb Finance Limited (HFL) wont allow him to cancel his
finance agreement.
The finance agreement is in Mr Ls sole name  which is why the complaint is only in his 
name. But as the transaction in question relates to a contract entered into by both Mr L and
his wife, Ill refer to Mr and Mrs L throughout much of this decision.
What happened
In March 2019, Mr and Mrs L purchased Trial Membership in a holiday club (the Club) 
from a timeshare provider, who Ill call X. The purchase price was £4,395 and in return for 
that they were provided with five weeks of accommodation over the course of three years. 
They were also offered a promotional holiday called a Prelude that activated their Trial 
Membership once the Prelude was taken.
Mr and Mrs L financed their purchase by way of a 36 month Fixed-Sum Loan Agreement 
from HFL in Mr Ls sole name. He borrowed £4,395 at an Annual Percentage Rate of 
11.9%. The monthly repayments were £144.50 and the total amount repayable after 
interest and charges was £5,202.18.
Unhappy with what had happened since making the purchase, it looks like Mr and Mrs L 
initially contacted X to discuss cancelling the agreement and getting their money back, or 
at least not making any further repayments under the agreement. X told Mr and Mrs L they 
would need to contact HFL, which they did.
Mr and Mrs L explained to HFL that they hadnt been able to make use of the membership. 
They said theyd initially booked to go on the Prelude in December 2019 but hadnt been 
able to get away because the airline theyd booked with went out of business. They re-
arranged to go away in August 2020 but were unable to travel then due to Covid restrictions.
HFL treated the matter as a complaint and issued a final response letter. It said, in 
summary:
- X had advised it that the prelude holiday was still available for Mr and Mrs L to take.
- It had also advised that the trial membership could be extended to ensure that 
Mr and Mrs L could make the most of it.
- A number of resorts in the UK and abroad had been available in that year. Whilst 
the Covid outbreak had undoubtedly made it difficult for people to book and enjoy 
holidays, this wasnt a reason for the membership to be cancelled.
- X had said that it was unable to rescind the membership and it confirmed that 
the membership continued to be available for use.
Mr and Mrs L subsequently contacted HFL to say they understood from reports in the 
press that X had gone into liquidation and that, as a result, it could no longer provide the 
service it had agreed to under the membership. Although they didnt explicitly mention 
Section 75 CCA, they did suggest there may have been a breach of contract and so I 
think that, in effect, they were raising a claim under Section 75.
HFLs stance in relation to the loan remained unaltered and so Mr and Mrs L referred their 
concerns to us. An investigator here looked into things and reached a view. She said, in 
summary, that:
- The protections in the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) allow a borrower to have an 
equal claim against the lender (in this case HFL) and the supplier (in this case X), 
but it isnt all-encompassing protection and doesnt cover all acts or omissions of 
the supplier.
- She thought the actions X had taken to extend the membership was fair in the 
circumstances and she didnt think there were grounds for a refund under the 
CCA.
- While she empathised with the situation Mr and Mrs L found themselves in, she 
thought HFL had fairly investigated the claim and she didnt ask it to do anything 
further to resolve the complaint.
Mr and Mrs L didnt accept this and asked for the case to be escalated to an Ombudsman. 
They said, in summary, that:
- They werent able to book holidays for when they wanted to through X or an 
associated holiday exchange company they had access to through the 
membership, due to lack of availability.
- They were disadvantaged being on a trial membership because they werent 
able to book as far in advance as full members.
- Some resorts remained unavailable due to Covid restrictions.
- They had experienced lots of customer service issues trying to book through 
and otherwise engage with X.
The investigator still didnt think the complaint should be upheld, so it was passed to
me to decide. I issued a provisional decision (PD) on 4 July 2022. In it, I said:
As I understand it, the crux of Mr and Mrs Ls complaint concerns the fact that they found 
it difficult to take advantage of their Trial Membership first due to the airline they were due 
to fly with in December 2019 going out of business and then once the Covid pandemic 
started. 
They also suggested at one point that X could no longer provide the services promised 
under the contract, because it had stopped trading  and thus there was a breach of 
contract. Theyve since said they havent been able to book anything, because there is no 
availability where they want to go at the time they want to go.
In my view, therefore, and for reasons that will become apparent below, the substance of 
this complaint is confined to whether X breached the contract between it and Mr and Mrs L 
 and, in turn, whether HFL is liable for that as a result.When a customer uses certain types of regulated credit to finance the purchase of goods 
or services (for example, a regulated fixed sum loan), the transaction has the potential to 
be covered by Section 75 of the CCA.
Section 75(1) provides that, if the debtor has a valid claim against the supplier of the 
goods or services in respect of misrepresentation or breach of contract, the debtor has a 
like claim against the creditor  who is jointly and severally liable with the supplier. The 
debtor may, therefore, choose to pursue a claim against either the supplier or the creditor 
or both.
To engage the protection offered by Section 75, all of the following conditions must be met 
(and I think they are met):
-The cash price of the goods or services supplied must be over £100 but not 
more than £30,000.
-The credit agreement must be regulated by the CCA.
-The credit agreement must fall within a subset of regulated consumer credit 
agreements, known as "debtor-creditor-supplier agreements" as per Section 12(b) 
or (c) of the CCA.
Section 12(b) of the CCA covers a restricted-use credit agreement to finance a transaction 
between the debtor and the supplier, other than the creditor, under pre-existing 
arrangements. A point-of-sale loan to finance a holiday product of the kind in question is 
an example of a Section 12(b) debtor-creditor-supplier agreement.
HFL doesnt dispute that Mr and Mrs L entered into a contract with X for services financed 
by a relevant debtor-credit-supplier agreement. And as Im satisfied that Section 75 
applies, if I find that X is liable for having breached the contract between it and 
Mr and Mrs L, HFL  as the creditor  is also liable.
A breach of contract can usually be defined as the failure to perform any term of a contract 
 whether written or oral. And on this occasion, while the onset of the Covid pandemic 
inevitably made it more difficult for Mr and Mrs L to holiday when the relevant travel 
restrictions meant that very few people could travel in the way they once could, this was 
the result of an event beyond the control of everyone who was party to the contract.
Mr and Mrs L did suggest there may have been a breach of contract after X stopped trading
 on the basis this would mean they couldnt access the benefits theyd been promised. 
However, I take from their response to the investigators view (talking about difficulties with 
availability) that they accept the membership benefits remained available to them (albeit 
they say with availability issues).
Notwithstanding this, I have considered the contents of a letter from the Trustee that 
holds the legal title to the properties that comprise the resorts that Mr and Mrs L had 
access to as Trial Membership members. It was dated 5 January 2021 and addressed to 
members generally. It updated them on the voluntary administration of certain sales 
companies associated with X. But it also sought to reassure them that the day-to-day 
management of the resorts was not connected to the sales companies in administration  
such that the ability of members, like Mr and Mrs L, to use their membership wasnt 
affected.
So I dont currently think that some of the sales companies associated with X going into 
voluntary administration means that there was a breach of contract. In terms of the problems with availability that Mr and Mrs L have described, I also dont consider that this 
represents a breach of the contract. Ive seen the relevant agreement between 
Mr and Mrs L and X, signed by Mr and Mrs L and it doesnt say that availability will be 
unlimited. Under the heading Membership of the Club, it says that the agreement is 
subject to a number of things including the attached information Statement.
There are a number of references in the Information Statement to availability not being 
guaranteed. For example you will be entitled to exercise occupancy rights (subject to 
availability) in any of the Accommodation available to your level of membership. And In 
addition to what is stated elsewhere all reservation requests in Trial Membership are 
subject to availability and seasonal demands.
The concerns Mr and Mrs L have raised to do with the difficulties they faced trying to 
attend the Prelude holiday also do not represent any breach of contract. I think what 
Mr and Mrs L are really suggesting here, is that the membership contract they had with X 
was frustrated.
As I understand it, a contract may be found to have been frustrated when something 
occurs after the formation of the contract which renders it physically, legally or 
commercially impossible to fulfil the contract.
However, while it might be the case that the contract between Mr and Mrs L and X was 
frustrated (at least for a time), which I make no such finding on, that isnt the same as 
saying there was a breach of contract. And as the only claim I have the jurisdiction to 
consider here is one of breach of contract under Section 75 of the CCA, whether or not the 
contract between Mr and Mrs L and the supplier was frustrated is a matter for the courts 
and outside the scope of this decision.
Finally, the concerns Mr and Mrs L have raised about the customer service theyve 
received from X, also dont represent a breach of contract, or anything else covered by the 
CCA. Given this and my other findings, I can see no reason to find that the contract been 
X and Mr and Mrs L has been breached. And because of this, I dont currently think that 
HFL needs to do anything further to put things right in this complaint.
I asked for any further evidence or arguments to be provided to me by 27 July 2022.
HFL said it accepted the findings and had nothing further to add. 
Mr and Mrs L said, in summary, that they still thought that X hadnt fulfilled its part of the 
contract. They described (and provided copy e-mail chains to demonstrate) how theyd 
tried to access and book holidays though X within the last few months, but there had been 
either no or limited availability when they wanted to travel. They said that where there was 
availability, they were required to pay extra, which they didnt find acceptable because 
under their membership, they were entitled to free accommodation.  
They also described the difficulty they had trying to contact X via telephone and provided 
evidence of the length of time theyd been waiting to speak to someone. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still dont uphold this complaint. I do appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs L.Before I explain why Im not upholding this complaint, I want to re-iterate my role as an 
ombudsman. It isnt to address every single point thats been made to date. Instead, its 
to decide whats fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points when I set 
out my conclusions and my reasons for reaching them. But, having read all of the 
submissions from both sides in full, I will continue to keep in mind all of the points that 
have been made, insofar as they relate to this complaint, when doing that.
Following on from my PD (which forms part of this decision), this complaint turns on 
whether X breached its contract with Mr and Mrs L. Because if it had/has, then under the 
relevant provisions in the CCA (as set out in my provisional findings, which dont need 
repeating here), HFL would be jointly and severally liable for any such breach. 
But before examining this, in my PD I set out why I thought that the issues Mr and Mrs L 
described related to them trying to take their Prelude holiday, were not a suggestion that 
their contract had been breached, rather that it had been frustrated. As I said in the PD, 
whether or not the contract between Mr and Mrs L and the supplier was frustrated is a 
matter for the courts and outside the scope of my remit and this decision. Neither party has 
provided any further evidence or arguments in relation to this point, so I see no need to 
deviate from my provisional findings.
Mr and Mrs Ls contention that X hasnt provided the services they paid for, centres around 
a lack of availability when theyve tried to use the membership to book holidays. Ive read 
all the evidence Mr and Mrs L have supplied on this point, including what they provided in 
response to the PD. I still dont consider that the problems with availability that 
Mr and Mrs L have described, represent a breach of contract. 
I made reference in the PD to parts of the agreement and associated Information 
Statement, which set out that reservation requests would be subject to availability and 
seasonal demands. This still holds. 
Ive noted Mr and Mrs Ls contention that when they recently tried to use their membership 
to book accommodation at particular times, they were only offered options which required 
them to pay extra due to the type of accommodation available. And that they say this 
means they didnt get what they signed up for. My reading of the e-mail from a 
representative of X on 29 April 2022, is that two of the three options included didnt carry 
any additional cost (relating to the type of accommodation). But in any case, I cant see 
that the agreement Mr and Mrs L signed up to guaranteed that they would have access to 
a particular type of accommodation at a particular time  rather things would be subject to 
availability. And that being the case, whilst I dont doubt Mr and Mrs L have found trying to 
book accommodation frustrating and difficult, I still dont think that this means there has 
been a breach of contract.
Finally, in response to my PD, Mr and Mrs L provided evidence of the amount of time they 
spent on the telephone, trying to get through to X. I dont doubt this was frustrating. But, as 
set out in my PD, such customer service issues dont represent a breach of contract on 
this occasion, or anything else covered by the CCA. Given this and my other findings, I still 
cant see any reason to find that the contract been X and Mr and Mrs L has been 
breached. And because of this, I find that HFL doesnt need to do anything further to put 
things right in this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about Honeycomb Finance Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman