DRN-2871590
The complaint
Mr F complains that Equiniti Financial Services Limited (EFSL) wrongly opened a dealing 
account when he opened a Stocks and Shares ISA.
What happened
In March 2017 Mr F opened a Stocks and Shares ISA (ISA) with Saga Share Direct  this 
service was administered by EFSL. At the same time, a Nominee Dealing Account was 
opened for him. Mr F made several deposits into the dealing account once it was opened.
In May 2020 EFSL contacted Mr F and other customers letting them know that Sagas 
service was migrating to a subsidiary company. Mr F was given the option to move to 
another provider and on 22 May, EFSL received his transfer request. However, this request 
was rejected because there wasnt any stocks or cash in Mr Fs ISA.
When Mr F contacted EFSL he was told about the two accounts. Up until this point, Mr F 
hadnt realised EFSL had opened two accounts  a dealing account and an ISA. He also 
hadnt appreciated that hed been investing through the dealing account rather than the ISA.
Mr F complained to EFSL saying he hadnt requested the dealing account. And he thinks the 
ISA was mis-sold to him. He said having the dealing account had caused him confusion 
particularly as it had the same account number as the ISA. Mr F says he is now liable to pay 
tax as a result of his funds being paid into the wrong account.
EFSL rejected Mr Fs complaint. It said Mr Fs dealing account had been opened in line with 
its terms and conditions. And that this was done so that customers had the option to pay 
fees or transfer funds out of the account without affecting their ISA subscription. EFSL noted 
Mr F had been sent various documents which would have highlighted to him that a dealing 
account had been opened including annual statements, its terms and conditions and a 
welcome letter sent to Mr F when the account was opened. EFSL said it couldnt be held 
responsible for Mr F paying his funds into, and trading from, the incorrect account.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. In short, she thought EFSL had correctly 
followed its terms and conditions, which had been clearly highlighted to Mr F. 
Mr F disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision on the matter. He said he didnt 
understand why EFSL had set up an additional account for him when it was quite clear he 
only wanted an ISA. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first thing to note is that EFSL didnt sell this account to Mr F. This was an account that 
he chose to open without any advice from EFSL. Under these circumstances EFSL needed 
to ensure that the information it provided to Mr F was clear, fair and not misleading so that 
he could make an informed choice about whether to open the account. 
Amongst other things, the terms and conditions applicable when Mr F opened his account 
said: When you open a Stocks and Shares ISA we will automatically open a separate 
dealing account for you if you do not already have one. And a Welcome to Saga Share 
Direct letter sent to Mr F on 17 March 2017 said: Weve also opened a Nominee Dealing 
Account for you, which you can access with the same account number and PIN. You can 
use this account when you deal in investments outside of your ISA and there are no 
ongoing administration charges. 
Looking at the information Mr F was sent and had access to from the outset, I think it was 
made reasonably clear to him that a condition of the ISA was a dealing account being 
opened at the same time. I appreciate Mr F only became aware of the dealing account when 
he tried to transfer his ISA to another provider in 2020, but I think the information he was 
provided with by ESFL was clear, fair and not misleading about the dealing account being a 
condition of opening an ISA.
Further I can see that Mr F received clear information about which account he was paying 
money into. Notably, the April 2017 annual statements for both the Shares ISA and the 
Nominee Dealing Account shows the dealing account had a cash balance of £15,240, 
whilst the ISA had a zero balance. And when Mr F logged into the EFSL online platform he 
would have seen both accounts listed separately on the summary screen. And when 
making a payment he would have been presented with a payments page which was 
headed Payments  Dealing Account (or) ISA.
So whilst Mr F may not have appreciated he had two separate accounts, based on the 
information Ive seen, Im satisfied EFSL made all of this clear to him. Under all the 
circumstances, I cant fairly say EFSL has done anything wrong in Mr Fs case.
 
Mr F says that he EFSL shouldve known he only wanted to open an ISA. He also refers to 
the way other businesses operate their ISA accounts. EFSL makes a commercial decision 
about the terms it offers the ISA which it is entitled to do. And the terms and conditions do 
make it clear that EFSL open a dealing account when an ISA is opened. I think this was 
something drawn to Mr Fs attention before his purchase and therefore, he could make an 
informed decision as to whether he wanted to accept the terms of the account. Because of 
this, I think it was fair for EFSL to assume that Mr F wanted to open his ISA in line with its 
terms. These terms included opening a dealing account alongside his ISA.
For all these reasons, Im not upholding the complaint. As a gesture of goodwill EFSL has 
offered to waive commission charges if Mr F wants to transfer his ISA through its Bed and 
ISA process. I will leave it with Mr F to decide whether he wants to accept this offer. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman