DRN-3339020
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money she lost as a result of an 
investment scam. 
What happened
Ms W sent money to GreenFields Capital (GFC) who she believed would invest in Bitcoin for 
her. Shes said that after knowingly making two payments, GFC took money from her 
account without her consent and then told her there was nothing left.
Ive summarised the details of the payments made using Mrs Ws debit card and received 
from GFC: 
Date  Payment details Amount 
8 January 2018 GREENFIELDSCAPITAL UK £500
9 January 2018 GREENFIELDSCAPITAL UK £100 payment received 
9 January 2018 GREENFIELDSCAPITAL UK £2,501
12 January 2018 GREENFIELDSCAPITAL UK 2,498
12 January 2018 GREENFIELDSCAPITAL UK 7,000
12 January 2018 GREENFIELDSCAPITAL UK 5,000
12 January 2018 GREENFIELDSCAPITAL UK 2,499
12 January 2018 GREENFIELDSCAPITAL UK 2,000
12 January 2018 INTL GREENFIELDS CAPITAL 10,000
12 January 2018 INTL GREENFIELDS CAPITAL 2,449
12 January 2018 INTL GREENFIELDS CAPITAL 9,999
12 January 2018 INTL GREENFIELDS CAPITAL 9,998
15 January 2018 INTL GREENFIELDS CAPITAL 2,000
15 January 2018 INTL GREENFIELDS CAPITAL 3,000
24 January 2018 GREENFIELDSCAPITAL UK £750 payment received 
5 February 2018 GREENFIELDSCAPITAL 7,000
5 February 2018 INTL GREENFIELDS CAPITAL 4,999
5 February 2018 INTL GREENFIELDS CAPITAL 5,000
Following these transactions, Ms W contacted HSBC for help. She later complained about 
how they were dealing with her claim. In June 2018, HSBC responded and said they hadnt 
received the correct forms from her. Ms W continued to complain and ultimately, HSBC 
declined the claim and said there was nothing else they could do. 
Ms W brought a complaint to our service. An ombudsman considered our power to 
investigate the complaint. They decided we could look into Ms Ws complaint about the 
safeguarding of her account and HSBCs decision to refund the money. But we couldnt 
investigate how HSBC handled things up until it issued its final response in June 2018.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why, 
breaking down my key considerations. 
Did HSBC fairly deal with Ms Ws chargeback claim?
Ive considered whether HSBC couldve helped Ms W by raising a chargeback for the 
debit card transactions. As per the ombudsmans decision, which Ive seen no reason 
to depart from, Ive only considered what happened after HSBCs final response in 
June 2018. 
To be clear, chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by VISA, who act as an arbitrator 
between a merchant and customer if they cant resolve a dispute themselves. Its 
subject to their rules, and there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can 
succeed.
VISAs rules did cover investment trading  in 2017, it expanded them to cover 
situations where investment traders prevented cardholders from withdrawing their 
available balance. But it required very specific evidence, such as dated evidence that 
they had an available balance, and that they tried to withdraw sums equal or less 
than their balance.
While Ms W said she submitted what was asked for, Ive not seen that she presented 
the specific evidence needed under VISAs chargeback rules. 
It follows that I dont think HSBC acted unfairly when they didnt raise a chargeback 
claim for the transactions, because I cant see it had reasonable prospects of 
success.
Did Ms W authorise the payments to GFC?
Under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), the starting position is that 
Ms W is liable for payments she authorised. Ms W accepts she made the first 
payments  for £500 and £2,501  but disputes making the remaining payments. 
The PSRs explain that a transaction is authorised where Ms W consented to making 
the payment  and that consent must have been in the form, and in accordance with 
the procedure, agreed between her and HSBC. Ms W can also give someone else 
permission to consent to payments on her behalf. 
Its unclear whether Ms W went through the form and procedure herself for making 
these card payments. But I dont think that matters. Because even if she didnt, I think 
its likely she gave GFC permission to consent to payments on her behalf. 
We know Ms W shared her card details with GFC, alongside any other required 
security information, for the initial payments to go through. And I accept its possible 
that GFC couldve then used this information to make further payments without her 
permission. 
But if that was the case, Id have expected Ms W to have reported this to HSBC 
quickly  after all, a significant amount of money left her account. Instead, Ms W 
contacted HSBC on 6 February 2018, so over two weeks later. And the notes of the 
call say she only disputed the payments from 5 February 2018  for £7,000, £4,999 
and £5,000. This fits with the copies of emails we have between Ms W and GFC. In these, she 
explained £17,000 was taken from her account without authorisation. 
This suggests that Ms W allowed GFC to make the other payments. So, I consider 
that its more likely than not that these payments were authorised for the purposes of 
the PSRs.
Ive considered the payments from 5 February 2018 separately, totalling £16,999. 
The circumstances arent clear. Ms Ws email with GFC suggests she refused to 
invest a further £17,000, so GFC said they would lend the amount to her. Using 
remote access to her computer, they then moved £17,000 from her savings account 
and her ISA, without her knowledge. 
I think its likely Ms W still knew GFC had her card details and were using them to 
make payments to her trading account. So Im satisfied there remained a 
representation that GFC had permission to consent to payments on Ms Ws behalf. 
I realise Ms W might have been tricked into thinking the money wasnt, in fact, her 
own. But, for the purposes of the PSRs, consent doesnt depend on the payment 
being fully explained to Ms W. So it doesnt make a difference that she didnt know 
the true source of the funds. 
It follows that, while I accept Ms W was the victim of a sophisticated scam, Im 
persuaded that under the PSRs, the card payments to GFC must be considered as 
authorised payments. 
Were the transactions out of character or unusual, or were there other signs that might 
indicate Ms W was at risk of financial harm? 
While Ms W is presumed liable for authorised payments in the first instance, it 
remains that HSBC have a duty to protect their customers from financial harm and be 
on the lookout for unusual or suspicious transactions.
I agree with our investigator that when the second payment was attempted for 
£7,000, HSBC ought to have been concerned. Ill explain why. 
oHSBC submit that by this time, GFC wasnt a new payee. But Ms W had only 
started to make payments in the last few days. I dont think thats enough to 
say that GFC was an established known payee. 
oIve considered that Ms W made some similar sized payments in the past. 
These were either one-off payments or spaced out across several months. In 
contrast, the cumulative spend across multiple payments to GFC wouldve 
been £11,496 in a matter of days  a marked difference to Ms Ws recent 
spending.  
oMs W had just made a payment to GFC that day. Given that she couldve 
made a payment in one go, this looked unusual. 
Given this cause for concern, I think HSBC should have intervened and asked 
questions to check not only that Ms W was making the payments, but what the 
investment was for and how it came about. If they had, Im persuaded Ms W 
wouldve answered their questions truthfully. And that reasonably probing questions 
wouldve revealed that shed found the company through social media, and theyd 
persuaded her to invest. And to do that, she had shared sensitive information and theyd used remote access software, as well as saying she shouldnt withdraw her 
money. 
While HSBC might not have known for certain whether GFC were legitimate, in light 
of this information, Id have expected them to provide a scam warning. HSBC dispute 
this wouldve dissuaded Ms W from investing further. I disagree. She was an 
inexperienced investor who admits that she didnt carry out checks initially. So if 
HSBC planted the seed of doubt, Im satisfied this wouldve prompted her to carry out 
her own research. And even with a rudimentary online search, Ms W couldve seen 
they werent regulated and theyd several reviews online from people who had been 
scammed by GFC. 
HSBC point out that Ms W accepted GFCs advice that she should let her 
investments grow and not withdraw funds  so its more likely shed have been 
persuaded by GFCs promises over their warning. But even if GFC were persuasive, 
HSBC were her trusted bank for years. Whereas shed been in touch with GFC for 
days. And while Ms W may have been nave in her investment approach, theres 
nothing to suggest she was willing to take extensive risks with her money. This was, 
after all, her savings to prop up her state pension. 
Taking this all into account, Im persuaded she wouldve taken heed of the warning 
and ultimately stopped investing further. So this was a missed opportunity for HSBC 
to intervene and Im satisfied that led to Ms Ws further losses. 
Contributory negligence
Notwithstanding the above, I do think Ms W was partly to blame for what happened. 
When she invested, there was information available online about GFC  plus general 
information about the risks of trading with CFDs. But Ms W didnt carry out her own 
checks. 
Our investigator recommended a 15% deduction for Ms Ws contributory negligence. 
This isnt an exact science, but I agree thats a fair reflection of how she was partly to 
blame. 
HSBC submit at least 50%. They said it shouldve alarmed Ms W that she couldnt 
freely make withdrawals. But I can see how the withdrawals that were allowed, 
alongside the promise that shed make more if she left her investment, gave Ms W 
confidence. Particularly as she was then shown how her investment had grown. 
HSBC also pointed out that Ms W allowed remote access to her computer and 
logged onto her online banking. Im mindful that people reach out to these sorts of 
companies because they dont know how to invest themselves. So I can see how 
using remote access, under the guise it would help, didnt seem particularly risky. 
Finally, HSBC have referred to the extent of the investments and how the payments 
were spaced out  giving her more time to think. Ive considered that most of the 
payments happened within days. And for those that happened later, it seems Ms W 
was lured into investing on the basis that it wasnt her own money. 
As to the extent, while I consider these to be authorised, its not clear Ms W fully 
grasped what GFC were doing on her behalf. And it seems GFC were using pushy, 
persuasive tactics to get her to keep going  by reassuring her that her capital was 
safe and they were, in effect, her new bank account. And then using their terms to say shed only get her money if she reached a certain trading volume. So while I do 
accept Ms W bears some responsibility, given the circumstances of the scam, Im not 
persuaded that a higher deduction is justified. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, HSBC should refund Ms Ws losses from the second 
payment to GFC on 12 January 2018. It should deduct 15% from this amount to reflect Ms 
Ws contributory negligence. 
It seems the money originated from Ms Ws savings account. So HSBC should add interest 
at that account rate (less any tax lawfully deductible) from the date of loss to the date the 
settlement is paid.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms Ws complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc must put 
things right as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman