DRN-3631757
The complaint
Mr C complains about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limiteds management of his pension 
funds. He was used to seeing them rise and fall in line with the changes in the FTSE-100 
index. But the value of his pension dropped from £81,206 on 8 September 2021 to £76,297 
on 6 October 2021, during which time the FTSE started and ended at about 7,050 points.
As he isnt happy with Avivas response, he referred the complaint to this service.
What our investigator said
In his initial view on the complaint, the investigator said that it was reasonable to expect that 
funds which were linked to the stock market would fluctuate in value, as they should be 
considered to be long-term investments. 
The funds Mr C had invested in were spread across UK and overseas shares, commercial 
property, bonds and cash, whereas the FTSE-100 only represented the largest 100 
companies listed on the London Stock Exchange. So Mr Cs funds were not meant to mirror 
the composition of the FTSE-100 and he could not therefore expect them to always follow 
that index.
The investigator was also satisfied that there was nothing to show Aviva had mismanaged 
the funds in such a way that led to their underperformance. The funds had been invested in
assets which were in line with their published aims and objectives. And their individual
performance was broadly in line with the performance of the relevant sector during the 
period Mr C was interested in.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator. He didnt think it could be a coincidence that his 
funds had always mirrored the changes in the FTSE-100 before the events of this complaint. 
He added that his pensions value had fallen by a further £6,000, so he had decided to 
switch the funds he was invested in.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken everything Mr C has said into account. But Ive decided not to uphold this 
complaint, for much the same reasons as the investigator.
On an individual level, the funds Mr C has invested in are incapable of showing performance 
that exactly matches rises in falls in the FTSE-100 index. For a start, one of the funds 
invests in bonds that are issued by companies or governments. None of this type of asset 
features in the FTSE-100 index at all. Another is referred to as a mixed investment (20-60% 
shares) which means that it cannot have a component of shares exceeding 60% and 
therefore this, too, will have most of the remaining assets invested in bonds. A third fund 
(European Growth) invests substantially in shares that are traded on European stock 
markets, whereas the FTSE-100 is companies trading on the London Stock Exchange.
Global stock markets tend to follow one another, so Im not surprised if Mr C saw in the past 
that the FTSE-100 had risen or fallen and then his pension rose or fell overall too. But bond 
prices and share prices are less well correlated to each other and thats precisely why 
people typically spread their investments across both shares and bonds (and one of Mr Cs 
funds contains an even split between both). It helps ensure that when stock markets are not 
doing so well, Mr C still has some prospect of weathering the storm in bonds and vice versa.
That is not to say that there have been some periods in recent history when both shares and 
bonds have performed badly. Im sure Mr C will be aware of some of the turbulent events 
that have affected the world and therefore stock markets over the past few years. And during 
the particular one month period Mr C has complained about, the unit prices of all his funds 
fell. That can happen sometimes, but stock markets fluctuate frequently and I can see that 
several of the funds rebounded again very shortly afterwards.
I know Mr C is surprised by this, but if he considered his funds always matched changes in 
the FTSE-100, this really can only have been a coincidence - given that the assets they held 
barely resembled the top 100 UK listed companies at all.
Like the investigator, Ive looked at the fact sheets Aviva sent Mr C for the five funds hes 
invested in  and in particular the performance graphs. Each fund is benchmarked against a 
sector average published externally from Aviva, which links funds with similar criteria 
together using benchmarks set by the Association of British Insurers (ABI). All of Mr Cs 
funds show long-term performance that exceeds the benchmark. And during the period hes 
complained about, all of the funds benchmarks fell at the same time as the funds fell.
This falls very short of demonstrating that there is a fundamental problem with the way 
Mr Cs funds were being managed. No fund manager is able to forecast exactly how 
individual company shares or bonds will perform. They can only pick the stocks that they 
think have the best potential, and some judgements they make will prove with hindsight to 
have been better than others. 
I noticed that two of Mr Cs funds dropped down by a bit more than the benchmark did during 
the particular month hes complained about. However in the longer term these were the 
funds that actually outperformed the benchmark the most. I think its notable that they are 
ethically-invested funds  meaning the fund manager will screen out investments that are 
potentially damaging to society or the world, such as tobacco and oil companies. 
This does have the effect of meaning they may fluctuate more than the benchmark in some 
market conditions, because they are more specialised than the benchmark. Aviva has 
mentioned that there were rallies in oil and gas prices in particular, which would have 
buoyed up the benchmark at a time when Mr Cs ethical funds were not benefiting from that 
growth. Im satisfied that it will be possible to find this, and similar, explanations for these 
slight differences. 
Im pleased that this experience has led Mr C to review the funds hes invested in because 
its important that hes happy with the investment decisions hes made. But Im not able to 
uphold his complaint as Aviva hasnt done anything wrong.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint and make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman