DRN-3568613
The complaint
Mr H complains that a car acquired with finance from Moneybarn No 1 Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In February 2021 Mr H was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn.
Mr H experienced issues with the car soon after getting it. These included a faulty clutch 
pedal, faulty Bluetooth, service light illuminated, missing parcel shelf, brake callipers seized, 
handbrake cable not working properly, and the battery needed replacing.
The dealer covered the costs of a replacement battery and repaired the brakes. However, Mr 
H continued to experience issues with the car and complained to Moneybarn.
Moneybarn arranged for an independent inspection of the car. The inspector found no fault 
with the clutch pedal or clutch operation and said that the Bluetooth was working. He fond no 
warning lights displayed and said the brakes and gears were working correctly. The 
inspector said that the parcel shelf was missing but that this didnt affect the satisfactory 
quality of the car.
Based on the findings of the inspector, Moneybarn said it wasnt prepared to assist.
Mr H remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. He said there wasnt enough evidence to 
show that there was a fault with the clutch or the gears. However, the investigator said he 
was persuaded by Mr Hs video evidence that there was a fault with the handbrake and that 
this meant that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. The investigator said Moneybarn should 
pay for the handbrake to be repaired and pay £100 compensation to Mr H.
Mr H didnt agree. He said the clutch had been a problem since the day he got the car, and 
that his local garage had diagnosed a fault with the clutch and the flywheel.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The quality of goods includes their 
general state and condition and other thigs like fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
I would expect a  second hand car to have a degree of wear and tear and to require more 
regular repairs and maintenance than a brand new car. So, in order to uphold this complaint, 
I would need to be satisfied that there was a fault with the car which made it of unsatisfactory 
quality, as opposed to a fault which was due to general wear and tear.
Mr H reported a fault with the brakes and the battery within the first week of getting the car. I 
can see that both items were replaced and the cost reimbursed by the dealership. Ive 
thought about whether these faults made the car of unsatisfactory quality. However, 
batteries and brakes are serviceable parts of a car which require replacement from time to 
time as part of general maintenance. So I dont think the fact that these parts required 
replacement made the car of unsatisfactory quality.
I can see that Mr H reported a problem with the clutch around 3 weeks after he got the car. 
This followed an incident at which a rescue organisation attended the car at the roadside. 
Ive looked at the report relating to this. This states that the clutch pedal was to the floor but 
that on swapping drivers, Mr H was able to lift the clutch and drive away. Based on what Ive 
seen in the report, I dont think this shows that there was a fault with the clutch.
Ive also looked at the independent inspection report. In relation to the clutch, the report 
states that the clutch pedal was resting in the correct position and that the clutch piping was 
free from leaks. The inspector stated that he was unbale to replicate a fault with the clutch. 
Based on what Ive seen in this report, Im unable to conclude that theres a fault with the 
clutch.
Mr H has said that his local garage has inspected the car and told him that the clutch is 
weak. Ive taken this information into account. Ive also taken the age and mileage of the car 
into consideration. At the point of supply, the car was around 7 years old and had covered 
87,000 miles. Its reasonable to expect to replace a clutch at 70,000  100,000 miles. One of 
the signs that a clutch needs replacing is a spongy, sticky or loose clutch pedal when 
pressed and difficulty shifting gear. Based on what Mr H has told this service about the issue 
hes experiencing I think its likely that the clutch needs replacing. But Im not persuaded that 
the evidence shows that there was an inherent fault with the clutch. I think its more likely that 
the clutch requires replacement due to general wear and tear. So, I cant fairly hold 
Moneybarn responsible for this.
Ive also considered the issues with the handbrake. Ive looked at the video evidence 
provided by Mr H, which shows the car rolling off driveway. This happened in the first 6 
months. Ive also looked at the report from Mr Hs garage which states that the handbrake 
cables have been greased as a temporary fix but that both needs replacing.
Ive also taken into account what has been said about the handbrake in the independent 
report. It  states on an efficiency test, the handbrake rendered a measurement of 27%. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im persuaded that there is a fault with the handbrake. Whilst 
theres no set lifespan for a handbrake, I dont think a reasonable person would expect to 
replace both handbrake cables within 6 months of getting a car. Because of this, I dont think 
the handbrake was sufficiently durable, which means the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when supplied.
Putting things right
Ive already explained that I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality because of the fault 
with the handbrake. Under the relevant legislation, Moneybarn is allowed an opportunity to 
repair the fault. It should arrange for the handbrake to be repaired at no cost to Mr H, or 
alternatively, reimburse Mr H the cost of repairs to the handbrake if he arranges these 
locally.In addition, Moneybarn should refund the cost of the independent inspection report, because 
this confirmed that there was an issue with the efficiency of the handbrake.
Its clear that the fault with the handbrake has impacted on Mr H. Another car was damaged 
when the handbrake failed. I havent seen any evidence of any costs arising from that 
incident, however, I think its fait to ask Moneybarn to compensate Mr H for the distress and 
inconvenient caused as a result of this. I think the sum of £100 is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Moneybarn No 1 Limited must:
Arrange for the handbrake to be repaired at no cost to Mr H
Refund the cost of the inspection report plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement
Pay £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman