DRN-3780916
The complaint
Mr M has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc wrote to inform him that his insurance policy 
covering unemployment was being cancelled.
What happened
Mr M took out the cover with HSBC to protect his mortgage repayments in the event of 
unemployment. HSBC wrote to him on 1 April 2022 informing him that the insurer had taken 
a decision to no longer provide that particular product and that the policy would therefore be 
cancelled on 10 August 2022.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint because the insurer had made a business 
decision to withdraw this policy and HSBC had provided Mr M with sufficient notice of the 
cancellation, in line with the policy terms.
Mr M disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M takes the view that the insurer should fundamentally not be allowed to cancel existing 
policies. 
HSBC was the seller of the policy and is also the administrator, but it is not the insurer. So in 
this decision Im only looking at whether or not HSBC acted fairy in its administration of the 
policy. Having said that, I will just add that this service would not normally involve itself in the 
commercial decisions of insurers in deciding to offer or withdrawn particular products.
The policy terms allow the insurer to cancel the policy at any time and sets out the minimum 
notice that must be given. When HSBC wrote to Mr M on 1 April 2022, it advised that the 
policy would be cancelled on 10 August 2022. It therefore provided more than 120 days 
notice and so was in compliance with the terms and conditions of the policy. The letter also 
signposted Mr M to where he could find advice on alternative cover if he still wanted 
unemployment insurance.
I appreciate that Mr M is upset as he wishes to maintain the unemployment cover. However, 
looking at HSBCs role in this matter, I consider that it has acted fairly. Had Mr M become 
unemployed prior to the policys cancellation date, the policy would still have covered him. 
And the notice period he was given gave him plenty of time to find an alternative policy so 
that there was no gap in cover.
Mr M says he feels cheated because he has been paying for the policy since 2011. 
However, he was covered by the policy for the whole time that he was paying premiums and 
could have claimed on it during that period if hed needed to. So Im unable to conclude that 
HSBC should refund the premiums.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman