DRN-3774940
The complaint
Mr P complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) has failed to refund over £137,000 
he lost to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will provide a brief summary and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Mr P says he fell victim to an investment scam with Coinstec.Ou in March 2018. He made 
multiple payments totalling over £137,000, which he says has been lost to the scam, where 
he was encouraged to invest by an individual over WhatsApp. Co-op refused to refund the 
money Mr P lost as it said he had authorised the payments.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She could see evidence of the bank having 
warned Mr P that the entity he was dealing with was not regulated, but he nonetheless 
continued to invest. As a result, she didnt think any earlier intervention or further questioning 
from Co-Op would have likely prevented Mr Ps loss. Mr P disagreed, so the matter has 
been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points, I have 
read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I agree with the conclusions 
reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr P authorised the disputed payments he made to the merchant 
from his Co-op account. The payments were requested by him using his legitimate 
security credentials provided by Co-op, and the starting position is that banks ought to 
follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be 
made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Co-op should have done more to prevent Mr P from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character.
Its not immediately obvious that Mr P has been the victim of a scam here (as opposed to 
simply losing his money to a high-risk investment). I accept that the individual he was 
messaging stopped replying when he wanted to withdraw his money, which can be 
indicative of a scam. But I note that he also received several credits back into his 
account, which Co-op says amounts to over £69,000. And although its often a common 
tactic of scammers to make deposits in order to entice people to invest larger sums, it 
would be very unusual for a scammer to make credits of this size and volume. For 
arguments sake, however, I have considered Mr Ps complaint on the basis that he was 
scammed. But even accepting his version of events, I still dont think Co-op would be 
liable to refund the money he has lost. Ill explain why.  
It isnt in dispute that some of the payments Mr P made from his account were unusual 
given that they did trigger the banks fraud prevention systems on more than one 
occasion, where they were automatically blocked pending further enquiry. Accordingly, 
its just a question of whether the bank went far enough in all the circumstances with that 
intervention.
Co-op hasnt been able to provide a call recording of the conversations it had with Mr P 
due to the time that has passed. But its account notes show that they spoke to Mr P on 
more than one occasion about the payments he was making. During these discussions, I 
can see that Co-op warned Mr P that the company he was dealing with were not FCA 
regulated, were high risk and that he could potentially lose all his money. The bank 
requested that Mr P send in any documentation he had about the company/investment 
but that this was never received. The notes state that Mr P advised he had no concerns 
about the platform he was trading on, was not being rushed in any way, and that there 
was no trace of bad reviews about the company. 
So, even if Co-Op ought to have intervened earlier and asked further probing questions, 
Im not persuaded that any such intervention by the bank would have ultimately 
prevented his loss. The contacts notes show that, despite being warned he was at high 
risk of losing his money, he was still determined to make the payments. The notes show 
there was no trace of bad reviews about Coinstec at the time, so, there wouldnt have 
been anything significant to alert him to the fact that he was being scammed, particularly 
in light of having received such large credits from the investment platform.  Therefore, I 
dont think Co-ops failure to intervene sooner can reasonably be considered as the 
proximate cause of Mr Ps loss in these circumstances, as it seems likely he would have 
proceeded to make the transactions irrespective of any intervention or scam warning 
issued by the bank.
Ive also thought about whether Co-op could have done more to recover the money after 
Mr P reported the fraud, However, I can see that Co-op got in contact with the 
international bank that was the recipient of the funds, but was told that unfortunately no 
funds remained. So, I dont think there was anything more the bank could have done to 
recover the money in these circumstances. Co-op are also under no obligation to refund 
the money to Mr P under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code either, as 
the Code was not in force at the time he made the payments, and in any event does not 
apply to international payments. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr P, and Im sorry to hear about the 
money he has lost. However, Im not persuaded that Co-op can fairly or reasonably be held 
liable for his loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Jack FerrisOmbudsman