DRN-4234133
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Goddard Perry Consulting Ltd (GPC) unreasonably delayed 
giving him advice about whether to transfer the benefits from his former employers 
occupational pension defined benefit (DB) scheme to an alternative pension arrangement. 
Mr C believes he has lost out as a result.
What happened
Mr C had been a deferred member of two of his former employers DB schemes. In 2019 
GPC had given him advice about transferring funds from one of those DB scheme into a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP). GPC had continued to give him regular financial 
advice since then.
In September 2021 Mr C told GPC he was interested in transferring the funds from his 
remaining deferred membership DB scheme into his SIPP. He had already requested a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) from the scheme administrators. They had sent him a 
quote for a CETV of around £169,000. The quote was guaranteed until 30 November 2021.
GPC gathered some fact-find information from Mr C. It also spoke with him on 
1 October 2021. Mr C said that while, at that time, he was still working he intended on 
retiring the next year, when he turned 55. His plan was to sell his house and for himself and 
his wife, who was largely financially dependent on him, to buy a boat and use it to travel 
abroad. They expected to be resident in Europe but said they may travel further afield over 
the next five years. Mr C had savings. He also had investments in a SIPP worth over 
£500,000, as well as a workplace personal pension worth around £50,000. His preference 
was to take his DB funds and use those to bolster his savings and live off those for the next 
five years, until he turned 60. At that point his plan was to draw down an income from his 
SIPP.
GPC told Mr C that there had been changes in the regulatory landscape since his last DB 
transfer in 2019. It said the regulator was now far stricter with advising firms about 
recommending transfers. GPC told him it would pass his transfer request to one of its 
pension transfer specialist to look into. 
GPC contacted Mr C about a fortnight later. It asked him to go through its DB transfer triage 
process included watching a video online, which incorporated explaining the DB transfer 
stages. GPC said it would need to request some information from the DB scheme 
administrators. It told him it could take the administrators some weeks to respond to its 
questions and as such it couldnt guarantee that it could complete its work before the CETV 
guarantee date expired. 
On 15 October 2021, after completing the triage process, Mr C told GPC hed been through 
the DB transfer process relatively recently and felt GPC could omit the abridged advice 
stage of its process and go straight to full advice. GPC replied on 20 October 2021. It said it 
had little prospect of receiving all the information it needed to give full advice before the 
CETV expired. It recommended doing abridged advice first as that could save time and 
money. It explained its fee structure. It added that the DB scheme administrators would also 
charge £250 for any subsequent CETV requests. It explained that the regulatory 
environment had changed since Mr C last went through the DB transfer process and so it 
had to tread more carefully. Subsequently, on 31 October 2021 Mr C signed GPCs fee 
agreement to go ahead with the abridged advice at a cost of £1,250 (£1,500 inclusive of 
VAT).
Over the ensuing months, up until February 2022, GPC continued to gather information from 
Mr C about his plans and his residency status and the country in which he would be liable for 
tax in retirement. It also made enquiries for further details of his entitlements under the DB 
scheme. Additionally it looked into, via a third party firm, how Mr Cs plans to live abroad 
affected its regulatory requirements and whether it could continue to give Mr C advice. 
In May 2022 Mr C chased GPC for progress. GPCs adviser replied. She said shed been off 
work with illness. Later that month Mr C asked GPC if he should transfer his workplace 
personal pension into his SIPP. GPC asked him for a letter of authority so it could make 
enquiries of the personal pension provider. Mr C returned that letter of authority in 
June 2022.
In September 2022 the provider of Mr Cs workplace personal pension gave GPC 
information about its pension scheme. GPC then made further enquiries both of Mr C, who 
by that time had retired from work, sold his house, bought a boat and was living on it abroad. 
GPC also made further enquiries of the DB scheme, including asking for an up-to-date 
CETV. 
In the meantime GPC prepared its abridged advice report which was dated 
20 October 2022. It didnt actually issue that to Mr C until 25 October 2022. A day earlier 
Mr C complained to GPC about its lack of progress. 
GPCs abridged advice said it was unclear as to whether or not a transfer from his DB 
scheme would be suitable for him. It asked him if he wanted to proceed to full advice. It said 
he would need to sign its fee agreement if he did so. 
Two days later the DB scheme administrators prepared an updated CETV quote, which had 
reduced to around £107,500.
On 2 November 2022 Mr C signed a fee agreement, based upon the recent CETV quote. He 
agreed to pay £3,250 for full advice, inclusive of the abridged advice fee.
GPC then obtained an appropriate pension transfer analysis report (APTA), which 
incorporated a transfer value comparator (TVC) and ran some cash-flow models. It 
appended those to its full advice, which it set out in a suitability report. It sent that to Mr C on 
9 December 2022. In summary GPCs advice was that it was not in Mr Cs best interests to 
transfer out of his DB scheme. It said he could meet his income needs in retirement while 
remaining in the scheme.
Mr C then put a number of points to GPC concerning the content of its report. It replied on 
15 December 2022
On 20 December 2022, GPC replied to Mr Cs complaint. It said it was sorry about the length 
of time it had taken to complete its advice and for not always updating him during the 
process. But it said it couldnt have completed its advice process before the expiry of the 
initial CETV. In recognition of the impact of its delays it offered to waive its abridged advice 
fee of £1,500 (including VAT).Mr C remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. One of our Investigators looked 
into it. He thought GPCs offer to put things right was reasonable and didnt think it needed to 
take any further action. 
Mr C didnt agree with our Investigators assessment of the complaint so it's been passed to 
me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In arriving at my determination Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. This includes the regulators Principles for Business 
(PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
And, while I've considered everything on file, I dont intend to address each and every point 
or issue raised. Instead I will focus my decision on what I see as being the key issues at the 
heart of Mr Cs complaint and the reasons for my decision.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
What Ive set out below isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied 
at the time of the advice, but it provides useful context for my assessment of GPC's actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that, when 
considering a transfer from a DB scheme:
a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A 
firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly 
demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the 
client's best interests.
So, the starting assumption is that a DB transfer is unsuitable. This is known as the 
presumption of unsuitability. It follows that GPC should only have considered 
recommending a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate on the evidence available at the time 
that it was in Mr Cs best interests.Should GPC have completed the advice process within the initial CETV guarantee date?
GPC had previously given Mr C advice about transferring out of a DB scheme. So he was 
familiar with how the process worked on that occasion. And it appears that, from Mr Cs 
perspective little had changed. His plan was to retire, sell his home, buy a boat and move 
abroad. He felt the best way to help achieve that comfortably was to transfer his remaining  
DB scheme funds to an alternative arrangement. Indeed Mr C was sufficiently confident in 
that plan that he was happy for GPC to miss out the abridged advice stage and go straight to 
full advice. 
It might help if I explain that giving advice on a DB transfer is, generally, a complex and 
heavily regulated process. It will usually involve gathering and analysing a considerable 
amount of evidence. And even in the most straightforward of cases that can take many 
weeks or months to complete. 
Further, there are typically a number of steps involved in a DB transfer process. In this case, 
after GPCs initial triage steps, it effectively offers a two stage process. The first is known as 
abridged advice. This is a shorter form of advice requiring fewer pieces of evidence to 
complete and is less complex. It only has two possible outcomes:
A recommendation not to transfer.
Its inconclusive whether a transfer is suitable.
And, generally, a client would only move on to the second stage  full advice  if GPC has 
identified that the abridged advice was inconclusive.
So, if GPC had identified at the abridged advice stage that it would undoubtedly not 
recommend a transfer, then it would have done so at that stage. That could, potentially, have 
saved Mr C from paying for the full advice step in the process. 
The abridged advice process requires less information than full advice. But the regulator still 
requires advising firms like GPC to gather what it calls essential facts. Those include things 
like Mr Cs knowledge, objectives and circumstances, including detailed information about 
his regular income and assets both currently and into his retirement. It would also need to be 
aware of his likely tax liabilities. So, even at this shorter stage, GPC was aware that it would 
have to gather and analyse a significant amount of information to complete its abridged 
advice.
At the time Mr C approached GPC, he already had a CETV which expired in 
November 2021. GPC warned him from the outset that, given the regulatory hurdles it had to 
overcome, it couldnt guarantee it would meet the CETV deadline. And, when Mr C 
suggested going straight to full advice, it was clear with him that it had no real prospect of 
completing its advice within that deadline. At that point it suggested abridged advice as an 
interim measure. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances. Thats because: by that 
time the CETV expired in less than seven weeks; GPC had a good idea it would be required 
to gather a analyse a significant amount of information; and it had no control over how long 
third parties took to reply to its enquiries. So it was extremely unlikely, even with a fair wind, 
that it could complete its advice within that timescale. 
I'm aware Mr C had been through the DB process some years earlier. I haven't looked into 
how long the process took on that occasion. But, as GPC explained, in the interim the 
regulator had issued further guidance to advising firms about the steps they must go through 
and the information they must gather before giving DB transfer advice. And the key stages in 
the process would require the involvement of GPCs compliance agents to ensure it wasnt falling foul of the regulators rules. So, while it might have seemed to Mr C that this was a 
fairly straightforward process with an obvious outcome, that wouldnt have been GPCs 
approach. Each of the DB transfer steps take thought, careful analysis and awareness of the 
regulatory landscape. And all these things take time. 
Further, in this instance, Mr Cs case was additionally complicated as he would be moving 
out of the UK. That introduced a new set of regulatory hurdles and questions that would only 
slow matters down further. So I dont think it was GPCs fault that it couldnt meet the initial 
CETV deadline. 
Further delays
That said, while acknowledging the complexity of the process and the regulatory rules within 
which GPC had to operate, I think it took longer than it should have done to complete the 
advice process. 
Having looked into the file, for the most part the delays were generally caused by GPC 
making enquiries, waiting for answers to those and then giving due consideration to the 
material it needed to analyse. But there were clearly a number of occasions when it could 
have speeded things up. I don't intend to go through each of those but two clear examples 
stand out. The first is between February and May 2022, when theres little sign of any 
positive movement on file. I note GPCs adviser had been away from work with illness, but at 
the very least I would have expected GPC to tell Mr C that and to try to move matters on as 
efficiently as it could in the meantime. The second was between June and September 2022 
when, other than telling Mr C he was a priority in an email, it's not clear what action GPC 
was taking to advance its advice process. I further note that, to add to the frustration caused 
by its delays, GPC accepted it hadn't given Mr C appropriate updates. 
So its clear that GPC introduced some unwarranted delays and didnt keep Mr C advised as 
to what it was doing and the timescales involved. To recognise the impact of the gaps in its 
service GPC offered to waive its abridged advice fee of £1,250 (£1,500 after VAT). Im 
aware that Mr C doesn't think that goes far enough. I've dealt with that point below.
Mr Cs commented that the abridged advice process took far longer than full advice. Thats 
clearly the case. As I've said above, there were certainly periods during the abridged advice 
process that met with unreasonable delays. But GPC gathered most of the evidence it 
needed to conclude full advice before giving its abridged advice. So, while it still had some 
evidence and other materials (like an APTA) to gather before giving full advice, in the 
circumstances of this case, its unsurprising that the full advice process was concluded in a 
shorter time frame than the abridged advice.  
The outcome of the advice process
Its clear Mr C was very disappointed with GPCs conclusion that he shouldnt transfer his 
DB funds. It seems he was expecting the outcome to be a positive one, so I can understand 
his dissatisfaction that  some 14 months on  the transfer didnt happen. But I think GPCs 
advice was reasonable in the circumstances.
DB pensions are a valuable resource and their benefits are often considered to be difficult to 
match (at a similar cost) compared with other pension products available on the open 
market. And thats one of the reasons why the regulator insists that consumers require 
regulated DB transfer advice before a transfer may go ahead. DB pension schemes 
generally provide a safeguarded, guaranteed and index linked income for their members at 
virtually no risk to the member themselves. The alternatives generally rely on returns from the investment markets. And those bring with them investment risks. So transferring 
guaranteed benefits from a DB scheme to an investment environment puts those otherwise 
safeguarded benefits at risk.
Further transferring from a DB scheme is a one-off event; once transferred theres no going 
back  the benefits are lost forever. So, when giving DB pension transfer advice GPCs role 
wasnt to simply do what Mr C wanted it to do, no matter how convinced he was that a 
transfer was suitable for him. Instead GPC was required to understand his wants and needs, 
not just his thoughts, wishes and desires. And, in order to meet its regulatory requirements, it 
could only make a recommendation to transfer if it was convinced, on contemporary 
evidence, that it was in his best interests.
In this instance, after completing full advice, GPC concluded that a transfer wasnt in Mr Cs 
best interests. In coming to that conclusion, after obtaining an APTA and cash-flow models, 
GPC identified that Mr C could meet his financial needs while remaining in the DB scheme. 
So, it said he had no need to put his DB funds at risk, in order to achieve his financial goals. 
Essentially, GPCs analysis showed that, using the income from his savings Mr C should be 
able to fund himself in the manner he desired for four of the five years of his early retirement, 
before he reached age 60. At that point, if he needed to, he could access funds from his 
personal pension or SIPP. And GPCs analysis was that Mr C would most likely be better off 
by remaining in his DB scheme. So, it concluded that Mr C didnt have a need to transfer his 
DB scheme funds and he should leave those where they were. I think its analysis is sound. 
So I think its advice was reasonable in the circumstances.
Did GPC adequately address Mr Cs concerns about its advice?
In response to its suitability report Mr C raised some issues with it. He told us GPC said his 
concerns made no difference to its findings and it simply restated the same inaccuracies. 
I've looked at Mr Cs comments and GPCs responses to them carefully. Having done so, I 
think its replied reasonably. It addressed each of them individually, although on occasions 
some of its replies overlapped, in terms of the reasons for its recommendation. I don't intend 
to address each point Mr C raised individually but Ill cover off what I see as being some of 
those as an illustration of how GPC replied to his remarks fairly. 
Mr C pointed out that GPC had incorrectly said that the earlier DB scheme, which hed 
already transferred out of, was in the process of being wound up when Mr C sought its 
advice in 2019. Mr C said that wasnt the case and the scheme still exists. In response 
GPCs adviser acknowledged shed been misadvised about the status of the earlier scheme 
and apologised. But, she pointed out that the reason why Mr C sought advice concerning the 
earlier scheme, had no bearing on GPCs advice in this instance. So, while it wasnt helpful 
that GPC included this mistake within its suitability report, it didnt alter any of the hard facts 
which affected whether or not GPC considered it was in Mr Cs best interests to transfer from 
his remaining DB scheme. 
Also, on more than one occasion Mr C referred to GPCs suitability report saying that he 
could take benefits from his SIPP or personal pension before he reached age 60. Mr C said 
that hed never said he wanted to take an income from his other pensions before he reached 
60. GPC accepted that point. But it added he had said he was interested in taking a tax-free 
cash (TFC) lump sum from those. And it clarified that TFC was also a benefit of his other 
pensions. So, regardless that he didnt want to take an income from his other pensions it 
said its comments were accurate about drawing benefits from those. I agree thats the case. Further, it went on to explain that while it was Mr Cs preference not to access the funds from 
his other pensions before he turned 60 it was required to establish if Mr C could access 
sums from other sources. And where a consumer like Mr C can bridge a financial income 
gap from a source other than the DB scheme then it shouldn't recommend a transfer in 
those circumstances. I agree thats the case. As I've said above DB income is safeguarded 
and not at risk of investment losses. So, where a consumer can access funds from another 
source, such as a SIPP or personal pension, then an advising firm like GPC should consider 
recommending the consumer use those sources to meet the shortfall, rather than 
transferring out of a DB scheme. Thats the case regardless that it might not have been 
Mr Cs preference. And that was why GPCs information referred to him taking sums from his 
other pensions before he turned 60, even though that wasnt what he wanted to do.
As I've said above, GPC wasnt simply there to find a way to do what Mr C said he wanted it 
to do. It was required to examine his needs, not just his desires, and see if there were 
alternatives, other than transferring out of his safeguarded DB scheme, of achieving those 
needs. And given that GPC found that Mr C could meet his financial goals, and most likely 
be better off, by accessing his other pension funds rather than transfer from his DB scheme, 
then it was reasonable for it to refer to Mr C doing so, even though that wasnt what hed told 
it he wanted to do. 
As I've said above I dont intend to address each of Mr Cs points in response to GPCs 
suitability report. But Ill add that, if I had found that it had restated inaccuracies I would have 
said so. 
Has Mr C suffered a loss?
Mr C believes hes suffered a loss because of GPCs delays. Most notably, his CETV fell 
from around £169,500 initially to around £107,000 by the time it issued its suitability report. 
But that doesn't mean hes suffered a loss. As I've said above I think that, even if things had 
gone smoothly, it was unlikely that GPC could have completed its advice process before the 
first CETV expired. So I don't think its responsible for it not being able to secure that sum.
Also Mr C remains a member of his DB scheme. So he can still access those benefits at a 
time that suits him. And while that wasn't his preference, it was GPCs conclusion that that 
was in his best interests. So thats what it recommended. I think that was reasonable,
Further CETVs are typically only guaranteed for three months and they will then require 
recalculation. Thats because theyre not only based on the consumers circumstances, but 
whats happening in the wider financial markets too. So they are affected by things like 
interest, gilt and discount rates. That means they can go up and down. And thats what 
happened in this case. That is the movements in the economy and the financial markets has 
seen a drop in CETVs. That wasnt GPCs fault, nor is it likely it could have predicted it. And 
in any event the drop in CETV doesn't mean Mr Cs DB scheme benefits are worth 
significantly less, it simply means that the market rates used to calculate CETVs have 
altered. So his DB scheme income will, largely, retain its worth.
I'm aware the indexation in Mr Cs DB scheme is calculated based on the retail price index 
(RPI) with a 5% cap. Mr Cs said this is currently lower than inflation generally. But, as GPC 
said in response to his comments on the suitability report, his investments have typically 
grown at a rate lower than that. And, those non-safeguarded funds could be subject to 
investment losses, whereas his indexation increases from his DB scheme are guaranteed 
and not subject to risk. It follows that I dont think he's suffered a loss as a result of GPCs 
actions. I do understand that Mr C wasnt happy with the outcome of the advice process. And the 
delays involved no doubt added to his disappointment. But, I think GPCs offer to reduce its 
fee by £1,500 was reasonable in the circumstances. 
I'm aware Mr C doesn't think that goes far enough as hes still required to pay a considerable 
sum to GPC. But I've seen that GPC made its fee structure clear to Mr C from the outset. 
And it told him that he would have to pay its fees regardless of whether the outcome of the 
advice was to transfer or not. Its also evident that GPC did a considerable amount of work to 
complete its advice. So while Mr C is not happy with the outcome, and GPC delayed in 
arriving at that point, I think its offer to reduce its fee in order to put things right was 
appropriate in the circumstances. It follows that I'm not going to instruct it to take any further 
action.
My final decision
Goddard Perry Consulting Ltd has already offered to waive its abridged advice fee 
amounting to £1,500 inclusive of VAT. So my decision is that Goddard Perry Consulting Ltd 
should waive its abridged advice fee of £1,500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman