DRN-2683907
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complain that they 
were given unsuitable investment advice by a predecessor of ReAssure Limited. 
 
What happened
The advice in question was provided to Mr and Mrs T in 2008. At the time they were both in 
their 50s, Mr T was in full-time employment and Mrs T didnt work. They owned their own 
property outright, had no borrowing and no dependents. 
They had around £250,000 held across deposit accounts, ISAs and investments  £82,000 
on deposit, £19,000 in cash ISAs, and approximately £149,000 in stocks and shares ISAs 
and investments bonds. The £149,000 was split £88,000 in cautious risk investments and 
£61,000 in moderate risk.   
To meet their objective of achieving greater potential for capital growth and a possible 
income in retirement they were advised to invest a further £20,000 into a Portfolio Bond in 
joint names, split £10,000 in the Legal and General Distribution Fund (categorised as 
cautious risk) and £10,000 in the Neptune Balanced Fund (categorised as moderate risk).
The bond started in May 2008 and was maintained until 2015, when Mr and Mrs T 
surrendered it for just under £26,000.
Mr and Mrs Ts CMC complained to ReAssure that the recommendation of the Portfolio 
Bond had been unsuitable because it carried too much risk given their needs and 
circumstances. However, ReAssure was satisfied that a full financial review had been 
completed and the bond was consistent with Mr and Mrs Ts objectives and circumstances.
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator also didnt think it should be 
upheld. She was satisfied the advice had been suitable. She said, in brief:
Mr T was more than five years away from retiring at the time of the advice and there 
were no planned changes for Mrs Ts circumstances. 
They werent inexperienced investors, as their existing portfolio demonstrated. 
The recommendation broadly maintained the moderate/cautious balance of their 
existing portfolio, with it remaining cautious overall. 
Both funds appeared to be consistent with Mr and Mrs Ts objectives.
The recommendation represented only 8% of their overall portfolio, and 20% of the 
total available cash. They also had just under £700 per month in disposable income.
 Mr and Mrs Ts CMC didnt agree. It said, in brief:
Although the recommendation represented only 8% of Mr and Mrs Ts overall capital, 
almost 70% was at risk in total, with a significant proportion of that being at moderate 
risk. 
With that amount already at moderate risk, including investments in European and 
UK growth equity funds, this was too much given they were a few years away from 
retirement.
It wasnt appropriate to recommended investing further at the level of risk of the 
balanced fund, but the distribution fund was also too risky for Mr and Mrs Ts 
circumstances given that over a quarter of their capital was at a moderate level of 
risk.   
 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the matter was referred to me 
to review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Its clear that Mr and Mrs T were reasonably experienced investors. It was noted in the 
recommendation letter that Mr T studied the financial press and given the way he and Mrs T 
were already invested, it doesnt surprise me that he had an active interest in investing. 
Mr T was planning to continue working for more than five years. He and Mrs T had a healthy 
disposable income and a large amount of cash on deposit. Even after the recommendation 
in question was implemented, they still had over £60,000 available to them in cash. They 
had no debt and Mr T appeared to have very healthy pension provision in place for when he 
did retire. 
Overall, it seems that they were is a position to be able to invest as recommended and the 
fact that they maintained the bond for seven years suggested that there was no issue with 
affordability  unsurprising given their general financial position. 
Although the recommendation of the bond increased slightly the overall amount Mr and 
Mrs T had a risk, given the relatively modest size of the investment I dont think it materially 
changed the overall risk profile of their portfolio. Im satisfied the new bond was consistent 
with their circumstances and objectives and they wouldve understood the risks it involved. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman