DRN-3902384
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi 
Finance (VWFS) handled the end of his agreement and the collection of his vehicle. 
Mr B is represented in this complaint by his daughter, Mrs W, but for ease of reference, Ill 
refer to Mr B directly throughout my decision. 
What happened
Mr B entered a hire purchase agreement with VWFS in October 2017 to acquire a used car. 
In March 2020 Mr B contacted VWFS as his income had been affected by the coronavirus 
pandemic (Covid-19). Mr B decided to voluntarily terminate (VT) his agreement. This meant 
that Mr B could hand back the car, and there was a shortfall that needed to be paid. 
Mr B asked VWFS if he could pay the shortfall in instalments, and they told him he could. 
VWFS told Mr B once the car had been collected, and the final payment calculated including 
any excess mileage and damage charges, they could set up a payment arrangement for the 
balance. 
On 25 March 2020 VWFS sent Mr B a letter confirming the VT of his agreement. This letter 
set out that Mr B would need to pay the shortfall on the agreement within 14 days of the date 
of the letter. 
Between March and June 2020 Mr B called VWFS to discuss a payment arrangement and 
the collection of the vehicle on a number of occasions. VWFS told Mr B on one occasion that 
the need to keep the car insured whilst it was in his possession had been relaxed, provided it 
was kept safe, and on another occasion that he needed to keep the car insured as he would 
be liable for anything that happened to it even if itd been kept safe. 
In June 2020 Mr B complained to VWFS that he was being chased for payment of the 
shortfall when the car hadnt yet been collected. Mr B was also unhappy with the delays in 
collecting the vehicle and told VWFS that he was incurring charges to store it in a secure 
location. 
Collection agents collected and inspected the car for VWFS in August 2020. The report from 
the inspection notes damage outside of fair wear and tear and the cost to Mr B as follows: 
- Front bonnet - paint chips  refinish - £110.40
- Rear bumper  scratched left corner  repair - £55.20.
- Left hand front wheel  scratched  refurb - £36
- Left hand rear wheel  scratched  refurb - £36
- Right hand front wheel  scratched  refurb - £36
- Right hand rear wheel  scratched  refurb - £36
- Left hand front tyre  tread 0mm  replace - £135.98
- Right hand front tyre  tread 1mm  replace - £135.98
Mr B complained about these charges to VWFS, as he felt they were within fair wear and 
tear, and he complained about the affect not paying the shortfall was having on his credit 
rating. 
VWFS sent Mr B their final response to his complaint in November 2020. They said when Mr 
B discussed the option to VT his agreement in March 2020, they should have explained the 
impact a payment plan would have on his credit file. They said the letter explaining the VT 
did set out that the shortfall would need to be paid within 14 days, and as this hadnt 
happened, the reports to his credit file about the late payment had been made correctly, and 
so they wouldnt amend this. 
VWFS said they couldnt collect Mr Bs vehicle because of restrictions relating to Covid-19, 
and then delays in handling a backlog of collections. They said they wouldnt reimburse the 
charges Mr B incurred for storage of the vehicle because they hadnt agreed to them up 
front. 
VWFS reviewed the damage charges and waived the charges for the bonnet chips and the 
scratched wheels, save for the left-hand front wheel, as the damage wasnt clear in the 
photos. They said the remaining charge for damage was £436.63. VWFS also offered Mr B 
£200 compensation as hed had to call a number of times about a payment arrangement and 
hadnt been given the right information. 
Unhappy with this, Mr B brought his complaint to this service for investigation. He said hed 
like the damage charges waived, to be able to pay the shortfall in instalments without it 
affecting his credit file, and reimbursement for the costs of storing and keeping the vehicle 
insured, in order to keep it safe, during the time between the end of the agreement and it 
being collected.  
Our investigator looked into everything and gave his view on Mr Bs complaint. He said that 
although the letter sent to Mr B about the VT said the shortfall would need to be paid in 14 
days, he thought it was reasonable that Mr B thought there would be exceptions to this, as 
hed been told by VWFS that he could set up a payment arrangement and hadnt been told 
this would affect his credit rating. Our investigator said that any adverse information should 
be removed from Mr Bs credit file, and if no payment plan was yet in place, then one should 
be arranged. 
Our investigator thought that VWFS had no choice but to delay the collection of Mr Bs 
vehicle as a result of restrictions relating to Covid-19. But they should reimburse the cost of 
Mr B having to tax and insure the vehicle between the end of the agreement and its 
collection. He didnt think VWFS needed to reimburse Mr B for the storage costs hed 
incurred. 
Our investigator said the damage charges that remained were fair but noted that they 
amounted to £363.13 and not £436.63 as set out by VWFS, so this figure should be 
amended. 
Finally, our investigator said that VWFS should pay Mr B a total of £350 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. 
VWFS accepted our investigators recommendations, but said that the damage charges were 
£436.63 including VAT. Mr B didnt agree. He said he should be reimbursed for the storage charges, as hed been 
told by VWFS that the car needed to be kept in a safe and secure location, and someone 
had tried to steal it from outside of his home, so he had no choice but to put the vehicle in 
storage. Mr B said he felt the compensation should be higher, as the impact on his credit file 
had been significant and sustained. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in November 2022 recommending that it 
was upheld. I made the following provisional findings: 
Mr B was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it. 
Mr B has raised a number of areas of complaint, and so Ill deal with each of them 
separately. 
Payment of the shortfall and the impact on Mr Bs credit file
Mr B has said that he wasnt told that if he continued with the VT of the agreement, hed 
have to pay the shortfall within 14 days, and that if he entered a payment plan, it would affect 
his credit rating.
Ive listened to the calls between Mr B and VWFS when the VT of the agreement was 
discussed. Mr B asked about paying the shortfall in instalments and was told that he could 
do this. He was told that once the vehicle had been collected, all charges would be 
established and then a payment plan could be set up for the balance. 
VWFS sent Mr B a letter confirming the VT and shortfall information, which set out that the 
payment would need to be made within 14 days of the date of the letter. This letter was 
some time before the vehicle was collected from Mr B. So, I think its reasonable that Mr B 
believed there would be exceptions to the payment requirement, as hed been given different 
information on the phone when he queried how the shortfall could be repaid. 
VWFSs system notes from these calls say that Mr B was made aware of the impact on his 
credit file, Ive seen no evidence that this was discussed when Mr B called, so Im satisfied 
that the impact of a payment arrangement on Mr Bs credit file wasnt made clear to him 
before the VT happened. 
Ive thought about what action Mr B might have taken if hed been given the information that 
the shortfall wouldve been due in 14 days, and that if he entered a payment arrangement to 
pay it over a longer term, this would affect his credit rating. 
Mr B has explained the distress the affect to his credit rating has caused him, and he told 
VWFS in his complaint that if hed known the correct information, he wouldve continued to 
make the monthly payments. At the time the VT was completed, Mr B had around nine more 
monthly payments to make before his shortfall amount wouldve been reduced to £0. 
Based on the evidence provided by Mr B, Im persuaded that if VWFS had provided correct 
information about the VT and payment of the shortfall when Mr B asked for it, that Mr B 
wouldnt have gone ahead with the VT of the agreement. 
Its not possible to put Mr B back in the position he wouldve been in if the VT of the 
agreement hadnt happened, I cant direct VWFS to treat the agreement as though the VT 
didnt happen, and reinstate it, as Mr B handed his car back some time ago. But Mr Bs 
credit file can be put back in the position it wouldve been in. So, I think its reasonable, in the circumstances, for VWFS to remove all adverse information relating to the shortfall from Mr 
Bs credit file, and to allow Mr B to repay the amount by way of a payment plan.  
I understand that a payment plan is already in place, but if it isnt VWFS should contact Mr B 
to arrange one, and Id remind them of their obligation to treat Mr B with forbearance and 
due consideration. 
Delay in collecting the vehicle and costs
Mr B completed the VT of the agreement in March 2020, but VWFS were unable to arrange 
collection of the car until August 2020. VWFS have explained that this was due to 
restrictions arising as a result of Covid-19, and then a backlog in vehicles that needed to be 
collected once those restrictions had been lifted. 
I appreciate that keeping the car past the end of the agreement caused some inconvenience 
for Mr B, but I dont think VWFS couldve taken any other action due to the restrictions 
imposed by Covid-19. 
Mr B has said that he incurred costs in keeping the vehicle past the end of the agreement. 
He said he was told by VWFS that he needed to keep the car safe, and in order to do this, 
he had to arrange for secure storage of the car, which cost a total of £4,157. 
Mr B said his house had been broken into in an attempt to steal the car, so he felt he had no 
choice but to incur the fees for storage. 
VWFS said they wouldnt reimburse the cost of storage as they hadnt provided written 
consent for it beforehand. 
Mr B wasnt responsible for the delay in collecting the vehicle. And although VWFS were 
unable to collect it, I dont think its reasonable that Mr B is responsible for the cost of 
keeping the vehicle safe as he didnt use it after the agreement had ended. 
Ive listened to the phone calls Mr B made to VWFS between the end of the agreement and 
the collection of the vehicle. Its clear that Mr B attempted to understand who would be liable 
if something happened to the vehicle, and how he should keep it safe. I think VWFS couldve 
given Mr B clearer information about this. Their advice was contradictory in respect of who 
would be liable, whether the car needed to be insured, or what action Mr B should take to 
ensure the car was safe. 
I can appreciate why Mr B felt the need to move the car into secure storage with the 
information that hed been given, but I think he couldve mitigated his losses here. Mr B has 
said that the cost to insure the vehicle was £300 a month. Mr B was charged £4,157 to store 
the vehicle for around five months. I think it wouldve been reasonable for Mr B to keep the 
vehicle insured instead. This wouldve reduced Mr Bs cost for keeping the vehicle safe and 
ensured that he wasnt liable if something happened to it. 
In the circumstances, I find that VWFS are not responsible for the storage costs incurred by 
Mr B, but that they should pay Mr B what it wouldve cost him to keep the vehicle insured 
between the date the agreement ended and the date the vehicle was collected. Mr B will 
need to provide evidence of the cost to insure the vehicle immediately prior to the end of the 
agreement for VWFS to calculate this. 
Damage chargesMr B signed a hire purchase agreement in October 2017. The terms of the agreement set 
out that the vehicle must be returned at the end of the agreement in good repair and 
condition, in line with industry standards of fair wear and tear, beyond which it allows VWFS 
to charge for the costs of either repairing and / or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the 
consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle.
Its clear from the agreement that Mr B was responsible for returning the car in good 
condition. 
Ive considered whether the charges applied by VWFS are fair and reasonable.  
There are industry standard guidelines published by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA) which set out what is considered to be fair wear and tear in respect of 
a hired vehicle. So, Ive considered these in deciding what its fair for VWFS to charge on 
return of the car.
VWFS have already agreed to remove the charges for the bonnet and three of the scratched 
wheels, so I havent considered these further. 
Rear bumper
The BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say that surface scratches of 25mm or less where 
the primer or bare metal is not showing are acceptable, provided they can be polished out. 
Ive seen the photos provided by VWFS from the collection of the vehicle, and the scratch to 
the rear bumper is over 25mm long with the primer showing. So, Im satisfied that the charge 
of £55.20 has been fairly applied for this item. 
Left hand front wheel
The BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference 
of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are acceptable. 
Ive seen the photos provided by VWFS from the collection of the vehicle, and whilst the 
damage to the wheel isnt measured, Im satisfied that the scuffs clearly cover more than 
50mm of the circumference. And so, Im satisfied that the charge of £36 has been fairly 
applied for this item. 
Front tyres
The BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say that all tyres must meet minimum UK legal 
requirements. 
The collection agents have measured and recorded the tread depth on all four tyres. The two 
front tyres are recorded as 0mm and 1mm. Current minimum UK legal requirements are 
1.6mm of tread depth. So, Im satisfied that both front tyres are outside of legal requirements 
and the charge of £271.96 for their replacement has been fairly applied.
The total damage charges for these three items is £363.16. VWFS have told this service that 
theyve added VAT to these charges, and this is why Mr B was asked to pay a total of 
£463.63. 
I havent seen any evidence that persuades me that VAT should be added to the charge 
payable by Mr B. The agreement allows VWFS to charge for the costs of either repairing and 
/ or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle. So, VWFS dont have to show that theyve undertaken repairs to the damaged 
areas. But, where no repairs have been completed and the charges have been used to 
compensate VWFS for the damage to the vehicle, I wouldnt expect them to be subject to 
VAT. 
So, I think VWFS should amend the charge for damages to £363.16. 
Distress and inconvenience
Our investigator recommended that VWFS pay Mr B a total of £350 compensation, and 
VWFS accepted this. Mr B said he should receive more, as the information on his credit file 
has had a sustained impact on him. 
Mr B has been put to distress and inconvenience in having to make multiple phone calls to 
try and set up a payment plan, incorrect information being given in respect of the shortfall 
and any effect on his credit file, the adverse information registered on his credit file for an 
extended period of time as a result of this, and unclear information being given about how to 
keep the car safe prior to collection. 
Ive carefully considered the overall impact the situation has had on Mr B, along with this 
services published information on what we consider and the levels of compensation we 
award in certain situations. All things considered, I think £350 fairly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr B. 
VWFS responded to my provisional decision to say they had nothing further to add. 
Mr B responded to my provisional decision. He said the compensation amount wasnt 
adequate, as the reporting to his credit file had caused prolonged and severe distress and 
inconvenience. Mr B also said he should receive some of the storage costs for the vehicle 
back, as it was clear that VWFS had provided incorrect information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has raised any new arguments or sent me new information to consider in 
respect of the removal of the information from Mr Bs credit file or the payment of the 
shortfall. So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, VWFS should remove all 
adverse information from Mr Bs credit file in respect of the shortfall amount and allow the 
shortfall to be repaid by way of a payment plan. 
Neither party has raised any new arguments or sent me new information to consider in 
respect of the damage charges. So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision this 
charge should be amended to £363.16 for Mr B to pay
Mr B has said that he should receive some of the storage costs back as VWFS gave him 
incorrect information about keeping the vehicle safe. As I set out in my provisional decision, I 
think Mr B couldve mitigated his losses here, by keeping the vehicle insured rather than 
placing it into storage. So, Im satisfied that VWFS arent responsible for the storage costs, 
but its fair for them to pay Mr B what it would have cost him to insure the vehicle between 
the date the agreement ended and the date the vehicle was collected. 
Mr B has said he can provide evidence of these costs, and these should be sent to VWFS so 
that they can arrange this payment. Mr B has provided further information about the impact the effect on his credit rating has had 
on him, and the distress and inconvenience this has caused over a prolonged period of time. 
Mr B has asked for the compensation to be increased. 
Ive carefully considered again the overall impact the situation has had on Mr B, considering 
everything hed told this service previously and in his recent communication, along with this 
services published information on what we consider and the levels of compensation we 
award in certain situations. All things considered, I remain satisfied that £350 fairly reflects 
the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited trading as Audi Finance must:
Remove all adverse information from Mr Bs credit file in respect of the shortfall 
amount. 
Set up a payment plan for the shortfall if one isnt already in place. 
Pay Mr B what it wouldve cost him to keep the vehicle insured between the date the 
agreement ended and the date the vehicle was collected, Mr B will need to provide 
evidence of his insurance costs prior to the end of the agreement before this can be 
paid. 
Amend the damage charges to leave £363.16 for Mr B to pay
Pay Mr B a total of £350 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman