DRN-2983164
The complaint
Mrs M complains Everyday Lending Limited (trading as George Banco.com) irresponsibly 
lent to her as it didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks.
  
What happened
Mrs M was accepted for three loans with George Banco between May 2014 and 
October 2015:  
Date of loan Value Term Monthly repayments Total repayable value
May 2014 £5,000.00 60 months £225.30 £13,518.00
April 2015 £6,200.00 60 months £266.72 £16,003.20
October 2015 £7,500.00 60 months £281.90 £16,914.00
In 2017 Mrs M brought a complaint to our service about the irresponsible lending of these 
loans. This complaint was reviewed under a different reference. The complaint wasnt upheld 
and was closed.
In 2019 Mrs M contacted us and made this complaint about irresponsible lending. During the 
complaint journey she provided us with a final response from George Banco dated 
October 2020. This upheld loans 1 and 3 and defended the sale of loan 2.
Although it had upheld loans 1 and 3, George Banco said there was no refund due to Mrs M. 
It said the payments Mrs M had made to the three loans hadnt been more than the total 
capital shed borrowed. However, it did say a payment was due to the guarantor and it made 
separate arrangements to contact them about the refund. Mrs M disagreed with George 
Bancos response. She said as the loans were mis-sold she should be compensated. 
Initially a case handler reviewed the complaint and said it wasnt one we could look at. They 
said this was because it was the same complaint Mrs M had made in 2017, which had been 
resolved. An ombudsman reviewed the complaint and decided we could look at it. In 
summary, they said Mrs M had responded to us on the previous complaint after receiving the 
outcome, but we hadnt progressed Mrs Ms complaint forward as we should have. 
The complaint was then reviewed by another case handler who said Mrs M wasnt due a 
refund. He said Mrs Ms payments to the three loans hadnt exceeded more than the capital 
shed borrowed, and George Bancos offer to refund the guarantor was fair.
Mrs M disagreed with the outcome, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our services approach when awarding redress is to ensure a consumer hasnt been 
financially disadvantaged by a business error. That is to say we would look to put 
consumers back in the same position they were in before any error had occurred.  However, 
in cases where a business has lent irresponsibly this isnt entirely possible, as the lending or 
credit provided cannot be undone. So, our general approach may be to require the lender to 
refund all fees and charges the consumer has paid; and add interest to that amount (if 
appropriate). Wed also expect any negative information that may have been recorded on a 
credit file to be removed. 
The important thing to note here is that Mrs M has had the benefit of the money she 
borrowed. We call this figure the capital amount. So, we would normally expect this amount 
to be repaid by the consumer. Any payments over this capital amount may be refunded to 
the consumer. 
George Banco has defended loan 2 and upheld loans 1 and 3. Our usual approach when 
reviewing a complaint like this would be to consider if George Banco made a fair lending 
decision at loan 2  and whether its redress on loans 1 and 3 is in line with our approach.  
Mrs M was lent a total capital amount of £7,549.80 across the three loans. This is broken 
down as £5,000 at loan 1, £1,428.89 at loan 2 and £1,120.91 at loan 3. The remaining 
balances of loans 2 and 3 repaid the previous loans with George Banco. 
George Banco has said the payments Mrs Ms made across all three loans havent totalled 
more than the capital amount she borrowed. Ive seen Mrs Ms payments towards loan 1 and 
2 came to just over £4,000 while they were active. Both George Banco and Mrs M have said 
some payments were made to loan 3 before the guarantor needed to step in  and Mrs M 
hasnt disputed her payments to George Banco towards loan 3 havent totalled more than 
the capital borrowed. 
So, in the circumstances Im satisfied George Bancos approach here is fair. The total 
payments Mrs Ms has made to George Banco havent added up to more than she borrowed 
across the three loans. So, she isnt entitled to any further redress from George Banco. 
When the guarantor stepped in and made payments, over time they had the effect of 
repaying the total capital Mrs M borrowed; and went towards the interest and charges added 
to the loans. Thats why George Bancos conclusion to refund the payments above the 
capital borrowed to the guarantor and not Mrs M is fair in the individual circumstances. 
I asked George Banco to confirm if any negative information had been recorded on Mrs Ms 
credit file in relation to any of the loans. It said it didnt believe it had  but wasnt definitive in 
its comments. So, I asked Mrs M if she could send us her credit file. Mrs M has provided 
extracts from her credit file. On review of the information Mrs M has provided, it doesnt 
appear George Banco has registered any negative information on her credit file in relation to 
any of the loans. So, I dont find it needs to take any further action in this respect.
I know Mrs M will likely be disappointed with this decision, but I hope my explanation clarifies 
the outcome Ive reached. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint about 
Everyday Lending Limited (trading as George Banco.com) but it doesnt need to take any 
further action in resolution of the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman