DRN-3501509
Complaint
Ms L is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt do more to help her when she was the victim of 
a scam.
Background
In January 2021, Ms L used her Lloyds account to make a £1,700 debit card payment to an 
account with a money transfer firm. The intention was that this money be transferred to a 
trading account on a foreign exchange platform. Ms L now says that the trading platform is a 
scam and wants Lloyds to refund her money.
Our Investigator rejected the complaint. He didnt think Lloyds couldve been expected to 
recognise the risk of fraud. He also said that Lloyds didnt need to raise a chargeback on 
Ms Ls behalf because it wouldnt be successful. Ms L disagreed with the Investigators 
opinion, and the complaint has been passed to me to consider and issue a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
The starting position is that Ms L is liable for any payments she makes from her account. 
However, Lloyds Bank was also required by good industry practice to look to identify and 
help prevent transactions (particularly out of character ones) that could be connected to 
fraud.
Unfortunately, I dont think Lloyds wouldve had any reasonable basis for treating this as a 
potentially fraudulent payment. Generally speaking, a payment of £1,700 isnt large enough 
to automatically be treated as a fraud risk. Thats even less so in the case of Ms L who had 
made several larger payments in the months leading up to the scam. Furthermore, this 
payment was going to an account in her own name with an FCA regulated firm. Ms L has 
mentioned the BSI Code which lists several factors that a firm should be mindful of when 
deciding if theres a meaningful risk of fraud. However, Im satisfied that few (if any) of those 
factors are applicable in Ms Ls case.
Lloyds must strike a balance between allowing legitimate payments to be made and 
identifying potentially fraudulent payments. Overall, Im satisfied that it got that balance right 
in Ms Ls case and that it didnt make any error in processing this payment.
Ms L also mentioned the possibility of obtaining a refund via the chargeback process. 
Unfortunately, the time-limits for chargebacks are applied strictly  and she made her 
request more than 120 days after she made the payment. 
Its also unlikely that a chargeback wouldve succeeded. Strictly speaking, Ms Ls payment 
was to the money transfer company and the agreement was that it would transfer her money 
to the foreign exchange company. For all intents and purposes, the money transfer company 
did perform its side of the contract, even if it was the first step in a chain of events that led to 
her losing money to a scam. Overall, I dont think Lloyds needed to raise a chargeback on 
her behalf because it was extremely unlikely to succeed.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman