DRN-3728114
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund transactions she didnt make.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Monzo accepted these were unauthorised transactions. However, in line with the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, it refused to refund them because it asserts 
Miss W failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account and 
keep her personalised security details safe.
Having considered the circumstances carefully, Im not persuaded Miss W failed with 
gross negligence. Ill explain why.
Miss W received a text message asking her to apply for a Covid Pass by following a 
link  and warning her that she could be fined if she didnt. The websites address 
and presentation looked legitimate  it used the NHSs brand. And given that Miss W 
was regularly receiving messages from the NHS about Covid as part of her 
universitys weekly testing, I can see how it seemed plausible and why Miss W 
shared her card details. I think lots of people wouldve acted in the same way. 
Indeed, it was a common scam at the time. 
A few days later, Miss W responded to a notification on her phone and completed 
steps in her Monzo app to set up Apple Pay. Unbeknownst to her, this added her 
card to a fraudsters device, who then made the payments. 
Miss W explained she was on the Monzo app at the time  she thought it couldve 
been needed to check her details were the same. Its clear that she didnt recognise 
this could add her card to another device  and I note theres nothing in the steps to 
warn her about this. 
Monzo point out that the steps ask Miss W to contact them if she didnt request it. But 
I note that that this message is smaller and its not in bold like the other text. So I can 
see how Miss W missed this at the time  I dont think it meant she seriously 
disregarded an obvious risk to conclude that she failed with gross negligence.
Monzo also submit that Miss W used Apple Pay regularly  so she wouldve known it 
was working properly and she wouldnt need to re-confirm her details. But I think this 
argument goes both ways  in that, as a regular user, I can see why shed have felt 
comfortable going through the steps and why shed have been keen to make sure it 
still worked for her. And I dont think it seems so unlikely that something mightve 
happened to mean she needed to confirm Apple Pay again. It follows that Im not 
persuaded that she acted with a very significant degree of carelessness to say that 
she failed with gross negligence. 
So I conclude she isnt liable for the transactions and Monzo needs to put things right 
 by refunding her losses from these unauthorised transactions alongside interest to 
compensate her for the time shes been out of pocket.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ws complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd must:
Pay Miss W the total of the unauthorised transactions, less any amount recovered or 
already refunded  I understand this to be £907.00.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman