DRN-4086614
The complaint
Miss A complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited lent her three loans when she couldnt 
afford to repay. She says at the time she suffered from severe mental health and severe 
gambling problems. Miss A says had Oakbrook carried out sufficient checks it wouldnt have 
lent to her.
What happened
Oakbrook lent Miss A three high cost credit loans. From the information provided, the loan 
information is as follows:
Loan 
number Start dateLoan 
amount (£) TermRepayment 
amount (£) End date
1 02/12/2020 2,500 24 months 163.59 28/06/2021
2 28/06/2021 1.000 24 months 205.67 06/01/2022
3* 06/01/2022 1,800 30 months 255.93 19/10/2022
*the balance on this loan was written off.
When Miss A complained to Oakbrook about the lending decisions, but it didnt uphold her 
complaint, it said it carried out sufficient checks and those checks showed Miss A could 
afford the loan repayments.
Unhappy with that response, Miss A referred her complaint to this service where it was 
looked at by one of our adjudicators. Our adjudicator thought Oakbrook did enough checks 
before lending loans 1 and 2 but thought Oakbrook should have done more before agreeing 
to lend loan 3. He said in the absence of further information on what further checks would 
likely have shown, he couldnt say Oakbrook was wrong to lend loan 3. Overall, the 
adjudicator didnt recommend that any aspect of Miss As complaint should be upheld. 
Miss A disagreed, in summary she said:
She had been refused credit everywhere else so was surprised Oakbrook lent to her.
She didnt have an income at the time.
Further checks would have showed she had a severe gambling problem.
She had mental health problems.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oakbrook is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time 
of this lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I wont 
repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to ensure that 
Miss A would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. As set out 
in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that he could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences.
Oakbrook has provided evidence to show that before lending any of the loans, it asked 
Miss A about her income and verified her income using the current account turnover. It also 
carried out a credit search to check Miss As credit commitments and used data from the 
Office of National Statistics to work out Miss As living costs.
Its checks showed Miss As income varied between £2,371 and £2,649.59 and her living 
costs including credit commitments varied between £1,191.68 and £1,636.24. Based on 
those checks Miss A had sufficient income to repay the loans. Miss A says she didnt have 
an income, Ive seen evidence to show she was in receipt of a number of benefits and I think 
it was reasonable for Oakbrook to take those into account when it considered her 
applications.
Ive thought about whether the checks carried out were sufficient looking at Miss As income 
and the repayment amounts for loans 1 and 2, I think Oakbrooks checks went far enough. I 
think it is also important to state that the credit checks for these loans showed Miss A had a 
very low amount of credit commitments. There were no signs of financial difficulties that I 
think should have prompted Oakbrook to take its checks further. Also, the loan repayments 
were a small portion of Miss As verified income at the time. Also, at the time, Oakbrook 
wasnt aware, and I havent seen evidence that it should reasonably have been aware of 
Miss As mental health and gambling problems.
However, loan 3 was the second top-up and Miss As third loan within a year. Given the 
term, the repayment amount, and the borrowing history she had now established with 
Oakbrook, I think it would have been proportionate for it to take its checks further. Id have 
expected Oakbrook to not only relying on what Miss A told it and the generic verification 
tools it used, I think it should have requested information to independently verify Miss As 
specific financial circumstances.
Miss A has provided bank statements from around the time of loan 3 and I can see that she 
was spending significant sums on gambling regularly, for example in the month before loan 
3, Miss A spent more than £3,000 on gambling transactions. This was a pattern that 
continued, and I think had Oakbrook carried out sufficient checks before lending this loan, it 
would have found Miss A wasnt in a position to sustainably repay the loan and it shouldnt 
have lent.
Where we find that a business has lent when it shouldnt have then wed usually ask for it to 
refund interest, fees, and charges. In this case, once Oakbrook became aware of Miss As 
difficulties it wrote off the outstanding balance on loan 3 and closed the loan account. Ive 
also considered the effect of the loan write off  Miss A received a total of £5,300 across the 
three loans and she repaid a total of £3,495.19, less than the amount she received. 
The write off on loan 3 means Miss A hasnt fully repaid the capital she borrowed across and 
so is in a better position than shed have been had this service directed Oakbrook to refund 
interest, fees and charges she paid. So, I wont be asking Oakbrook to make any further 
payments to Miss A as I think it has already acted fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint or make any award against 
Oakbrook Finance Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask o A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman