DRN-2301685
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy Quickly Finance Limited, trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) is charging 
her a fee for a payment protection insurance claim (PPI), that she said shed cancelled and  
they werent authorised to make. 
What happened
In August 2019 with the approach of the deadline for making PPI claims, Mrs S said shed 
panicked and had asked several claims management companies to check whether she had 
any PPI. In November 2019, Mrs S said she asked FTR to cancel all the PPI checks shed 
asked them to make. And she said she didnt complete any of the documentation they sent 
her so she hadnt authorised them to continue with any claims.
In January 2020, one of Mrs S lenders Ill call B said her PPI claim was successful and 
offered compensation for the mis-sold policy. Shortly afterwards FTR asked Mrs S to pay 
their fee for the successful claim.
Mrs S complained to FTR as she said shed never asked them to submit a claim for her as 
she hadnt returned the documentation, theyd sent to her. 
FTR said Mrs S had asked them to carry out a free PPI check, and shed signed a letter of 
authority (LoA) in August 2019 authorising them to act on her behalf to pursue PPI claims to 
all her lenders. Mrs S had called them to cancel her agreement in November 2019, but this 
was after the 14 day cooling off period, and shed been told a fee would still be payable if her 
claim was successful. FTR also said lender B had auto converted the information sent by 
FTR into a claim, and so the free PPI check period had ended at that point and their fee 
became payable on the success of the claim. 
Mrs S wasnt happy with FTRs response as shed been told her claim had been cancelled. 
She also said she had been pressured into paying the fee as she had been threatened with 
legal action. She referred her complaint to us. 
Our investigator said FTRs terms were clear in that they said theyd submit a PPI claim after 
the end of the free PPI check. But she said Mrs S had cancelled her agreement before her 
claim was successful. And so FTR should waive their fee.
FTR didnt agree and said the LoA, Mrs S had signed, authorised them to make the PPI 
claim on her behalf and her claim was successful because of the work theyd done.  FTR 
asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
FTR have strongly said why they consider their fees are due as and I will address these 
within my decision. I wont list each item separately, but I have looked at all the comments 
they have made. I can understand Mrs S frustration as I can see her understanding was that 
she was only agreeing to a free PPI check and said she thought FTR needed further 
authorisation before submitting her complaint.
So, when making my decision I need to determine whether Mrs S had authorised FTR to act 
on her behalf. And if she had, whether she let them know she no longer wanted them to 
work for her. And whether FTR has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with Mrs S.
FTR has shown an online application for a free PPI check was made in August 2019. And 
Mrs S doesnt dispute she completed the application. On completion of the application, an 
LoA was generated for each of Mrs S lenders, populated with her details and these were 
signed. FTRs terms and conditions were also available to see. And in signing the LoAs 
Mrs S had agreed to them. 
FTRs terms and conditions say:
Free PPI Check Period:
a. FTR will use reasonable endeavours to request the Company confirm whether PPI existed 
on any accounts which You held with them by making a Pre-submission or DSAR
b. If no PPI is identified this Agreement will come to an end but this Agreement will continue 
on any accounts where a Company has confirmed You had PPI.
They go on to say:
Preparing and Submitting Your Claims;
a. Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and you authorise FTR to
continue to provide You with the Claims Services 
b. If further information is required from You prior to submitting a Claim(s), FTR will
endeavour to contact You and You agree to provide reasonable assistance and information
to allow Us to submit a Claim{s) on Your behalf
I have listened to the calls Mrs S made to FTR. In November 2019 Mrs S explained shed 
asked several CMCs to look into PPI claims for her, her understanding was that the CMCs 
dealt with specific lenders, so she had completed a number of applications for her different 
lenders with the different CMCs. But this isnt the case as each CMC would check with 
Mrs S lenders to see whether she had any PPI with them. And this was explained to her in a 
call with FTR. 
Mrs S was taken through each of her lenders and was told that two of them had responded 
to say there was potential PPI (lender S and lender R). Mrs S made it clear, at this time, 
she wanted to cancel her claims with all lenders, except lender S. She also reiterated her 
understanding that shed only asked for a free PPI check and that there wouldnt be a fee 
unless she asked FTR to take the claim further. Mrs S was told  unless any make an offer 
theres nothing to pay. Mrs S was also asked to complete the PPI questionnaire but she 
declined doing this, again showing her understanding that further authorisation would be needed from her before her claim could progress. At no point in this call is she told that 
lender B had auto converted her claim. 
In later calls Mrs S again goes through the list of her lenders and its confirmed that her claim 
with lender B is being cancelled. I think this call also reinforces Mrs S understanding that 
she would need to do something more to progress her claim as shes told for her claim with 
lender S shed need to provide a wet signature for her lender to accept and progress her 
claim. Mrs S says she has got the PPI questionnaire but again she reiterates her 
understanding that shed need to return the questionnaire for her claim to progress. And 
again, Mrs S isnt told that lender B had auto converted her claim.
FTRs terms and conditions say:
You may cancel Your Claim(s) at any time within 14 days from the date you sign the Letter 
of Authority (Cooling-off Period) at no cost to you, unless you or FTR have received a 
reasonable offer of Compensation within the Cooling-off Period.
 And goes on to say:
No cancellation fee will be charged if you decide to terminate this agreement after the 
cooling off period, however, if you go on to receive an offer from the lender as a result of a 
claim our fee will be due. If You cancel Your Claim(s) after an offer of reasonable 
Compensation is made to You, then FTR shall be entitled to issue the Fee(s)
that would be payable under clause 3.
In neither of the calls made in November or December 2019 was Mrs S told her claim had 
been auto converted. On checking FTRs notes, they show they werent made aware that 
lender B had converted Mrs S claim until December 2019, after Mrs S had asked them to 
cancel her agreement. And before lender B made any offer of compensation. So I dont 
think the free PPI period had ended before Mrs S cancelled her agreement with FTR, as 
FTR wouldnt have known at this point that she had PPI. So, I dont think FTR were 
authorised to provide their claims service to Mrs S.
FTR asked Mrs S to pay their success fee, but I dont think this is fair and reasonable. The 
terms and conditions above only quantify that a success fee will be charged if the agreement 
is cancelled after theres an offer of compensation. And Mrs S cancelled her agreement in 
November 2019 before she had an offer of compensation made to her. So, I dont think FTR 
can charge their success fee.
FTR refer to a cancellation fee which isnt payable if the cancellation is made within the 
cooling off period and before an offer of compensation is made. But would be charged if the 
cancellation is after the cooling off period and an offer of compensation is made. And Mrs S 
cancellation would fall into the later criteria. But at no point in any of the calls was Mrs S told 
when she said she wanted to cancel her claims that she could be liable for a cancellation 
fee or what this fee would be.
Putting things right
So, Im satisfied Mrs S cancelled her agreement in November 2019 and I think had 
effectively opted out of any claims service by FTR.  So I dont think its fair or reasonable for 
FTR to charge their success fee as I dont think they were authorised to act on behalf of Mrs 
S. And as Mrs S wasnt told about a fee for cancelling her claims I dont expect FTR to ask 
Mrs S to pay this either.I understand Mrs S has already paid FTR their success fee and I look to FTR to refund this 
payment back to Mrs S.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman