DRN-3948435
The complaint
Mr G complains about the value Ageas Insurance Limited offered for his car after he made a 
claim on his car insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. Instead, Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision.
Ageas valued Mr Gs car at £2,430. It then made a deduction of £1,500 for pre-accident 
damage (being 50% of the actual costs). Mr G says his car wasnt in a bad condition, he 
admits there were a few dents and scrapes but doesnt think that would have reduced the 
value of the car by that much.
My provisional findings 
I issued my provisional findings on 19 January 2023. I said I intended to uphold the 
complaint for the following reasons:
Im satisfied the initial valuation of the vehicle reflects a fair market value as it is at 
the top of the range of the motor trade guides which value the vehicle at £2,430, 
£2,395 and £2,147.
Ageas was entitled to deduct the excess of £445 Mr G agreed to when taking out the 
policy.
Im not satisfied the deduction that has been made for pre- accident damage is fair in 
this instance.
Ageas, as is normal, base its repair calculations on completing manufacturer 
standard repairs to bring the car back to retail condition. However, it is accepted that 
on older vehicles especially, it is likely that consumers would usually choose to seek 
a cheaper repair. As such, we usually say it is reasonable for insurers to deduct 50% 
of the costs for pre-accident damage.
Mr Gs car was around 12 years old and as such, a normal amount of wear and tear 
is to be expected. And which, usually, wouldnt necessarily impact the price someone 
was willing to pay for the vehicle.
Having looked at the quote for the pre-accident damage repairs I can see it included 
repairing the drivers door sill, however this is something Mr G said happened in the 
accident when the car was pushed into a high curb. I can also see it includes costs to 
fix minor dents and scratches on the passenger side of the car, the rear bumper and 
the drivers side front and rear wings. Having reviewed photographs for these areas, 
Im persuaded they would be classed as normal wear and tear on a vehicle of this 
age.
I do accept there is heavy damage to the drivers side front and rear doors and that 
the front bumper of the vehicle was attached using screws (I assume due to the 
bumper clips being broken). So, Im satisfied that these areas of damage are to such 
an extent it would be reasonable to expect they would reduce the value of the 
vehicle.
Overall, in this case, I think it would be reasonable for Ageas to deduct 30% of the 
cost of repairs, which would be around £1,000.
To put things right, Ageas should make a further payment to Mr G of £500 to reflect 
the reduction in pre-accident damage repair costs.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr G responded saying he accepted my findings.
Ageas responded saying it didnt agree. It said that had the car been looked after then it 
should have little wear and tear. However, the damage to the bumper and doors clearly 
shows the car has not been maintained and has had previous poor repairs. It provided a new 
report giving costings with the drivers door sill removed but didnt agree with my proposal as 
to how the complaint should be settled. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Ageas have said but Im not minded to change my outcome or intended 
settlement. 
Ive acknowledged in my provisional decision the car does have some heavy damage which 
I would not class as wear and tear. I think Ageas is entitled to deduct a proportion of the 
costs of repairing those as pre accident damage. 
However, I dont think it is fair to say that simply because that damage is present, all other 
areas of damage on the car should then be costed for and deducted as pre accident 
damage. The car is 12 years old, and an amount of fair wear and tear is expected. 
So for the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. To 
put things right, Ageas should make a further payment to Mr G of £500 to reflect the 
reduction in pre-accident damage repair costs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint against Ageas Insurance Limited. It 
should make an additional payment of £500 to Mr G to reflect a fair settlement value of his 
car. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman