DRN-4393472
Complaint
Mr R has complained about a credit card and subsequent credit limit increases NewDay Ltd 
(trading as Marbles) provided to him. He says the credit card was unaffordable and 
shouldnt have been provided.
Background
Marbles provided Mr R with a credit card with an initial limit of £300 in January 2018. Mr Rs 
credit limit was increased to £1,200.00 in June 2018; and then £2,400.00 in October 2018.  
When it reviewed Mr Rs complaint, Marbles accepted it shouldnt have offered the second 
credit limit increase to Mr R. And it agreed to refund all interest, fees and charges Mr R paid 
on balances above £1,200.00 as a result. As this is in line with what wed tell a lender to do 
in the event we were to uphold a complaint about a lending decision weve not looked into 
the lending decision itself but told Mr R that the offer was fair and reasonable as it is in line 
with what wed award in these circumstances. 
One of our investigators then reviewed what Mr R and Marbles had told us. And she thought 
Marbles hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr R unfairly in relation to providing the 
credit card or increasing the credit limit in June 2018. So she thought that what Marbles had 
already agreed to do to put things right for Mr R was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of his complaint. 
Mr R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Rs complaint.
Marbles needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Marbles needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr R 
could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Marbles says it initially agreed to Mr Rs application after it obtained information on his 
income and carried out a credit search. And the information obtained indicated that Mr R 
would be able to make the low monthly repayments due for this credit card. Due to Mr Rs 
account being relatively well managed he was then offered the credit limit increase to 
£1,200.00. 
On the other hand Mr R says that he shouldnt have been lent to and the credit was provided 
at a time when he couldnt afford it.
Ive considered what the parties have said. 
Marbles decision to provide Mr R with a credit card with a limit of £300
Whats important to note is that Mr R was provided with a revolving credit facility rather than 
a loan. And this means that to start with Marbles was required to understand whether a 
credit limit of £300 could be repaid within a reasonable period of time, rather than all in one 
go. A credit limit of £300 required small monthly payments in order to clear the full amount 
owed within a reasonable period of time. 
The information Marbles has provided shows that Mr R declared an annual income of 
£8,000.00 and that he had low levels of existing debt. Given the information Marbles 
obtained and what it showed, Im satisfied that Marbles was entitled to rely on Mr Ms 
declaration of income and determine that an initial credit of £300 was affordable for            
Mr R. 
As this is the case, Im satisfied that the checks carried out before Mr R was initially provided 
with his credit card were reasonable and proportionate.
The credit limit increase
For the first credit limit increase, it appears as though Marbles mainly relied on Mr Rs 
account having been managed well in the six months or so since it had been opened. Im not 
necessarily persuaded that Mr Rs account had been managed particularly well or that this in 
itself was an indication that Mr R should be lent up to a further £900. This is especially as it 
appears as though Mr R exceeded his credit limit in March 2018 and April 2018. However, I 
can also see that Mr R made a large repayment in May 2018, which saw him clear the 
outstanding balance on the account completely. 
While I accept that there were some indications that Mr Rs account management might 
have suggested the credit limits were affordable, given the amount of the likely increased 
monthly payments, I do think that there is a reasonable argument for saying that it would 
have been proportionate for Marbles to find out a bit more about Mr Rs regular living costs 
before offering the credit limit increase. 
As Marbles didnt obtain this information, Ive considered the information Mr R has provided 
with a view to deciding what it might have found out about Mr Rs regular living costs had it 
asked him about this. To be clear this isnt the same as asking Mr R for his bank statements, 
as given the amounts involved here, I dont think that asking for this information would have 
been proportionate in the circumstances.
Having carefully thought about matters, I dont think that Marbles would have made a 
different decision, when offering the credit limit increase, even if it had asked Mr R for more 
information. I say this because the information Mr R has provided about his finances at the 
time appears to show that when his committed regular living expenses and existing credit commitments were deducted from the funds going into his account, he did have the funds, at 
the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due. 
In reaching this conclusion, Ive thought about what Mr R has said about his income being 
made up from student loans. But these were funds he received and they were not typical 
loans in the sense that they were meant to act as income for the relevant period and there 
was no set repayment schedule for them. So I think that it is fair and reasonable to take 
these credits into account as income.
And, in these circumstances, its difficult for me to conclude that Marbles would have found 
out that Mr R didnt have sufficient funds to make the repayments for the increased credit 
limit of £1,200.00. This is even if it had tried to find out more about his circumstances at this 
time. 
Its possible that Mr Rs position might have been worse than what it looks like, or that it 
worsened after the credit limit increases took place. But it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for 
me to use hindsight here, or say that Marbles should have known this was the case. This is 
especially as the available information indicates proportionate checks (rather than a forensic 
analysis of Mr Rs bank statements) would more likely than not have shown that Mr R could 
repay what he could owe at the time the lending decision was made. 
So overall while I can understand Mr Rs sentiments, I dont think that Marbles treated Mr R 
unfairly or unreasonably when providing him with his credit card or subsequently increasing 
his credit limit to £1,200.00 in June 2018. As this is the case, Im satisfied that what Marbles 
has already offered to do to put things right for Mr R is fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances and Im not requiring to do anything further. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr R. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Fair compensation  what Marbles needs to do to put things right for Mr R
Having carefully considered everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable, in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ms complaint, for Marbles to put things right in the following way (which 
it has already agreed to do):
rework Mr Rs account to ensure that from November 2018 interest is only charged 
on the first £1,200.00 outstanding - to reflect the fact that the second credit limit 
increase should not have been provided. All late payment and over limit fees should 
also be removed; 
if an outstanding balance remains on Mr Rs account once all adjustments have been 
made Marbles should contact Mr R to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. If it 
considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Rs credit file, it should 
backdate this to when it shouldnt have provided the additional credit in question in 
the first place; 
if the effect of all adjustments results in there no longer being an outstanding 
balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to Mr R 
along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they were made 
until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance remains on Mr R account after 
all adjustments have been made, then Marbles should remove any adverse 
information it (not any third party) has recorded from Mr Ms credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Marbles to take off tax from this interest. Marbles must 
give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what NewDay Ltd has already agreed to do 
for Mr R is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. And Im not 
requiring it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman