DRN-3455685
The complaint
Miss H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) debited her account with a series 
of payments totalling approximately £2,000 which she says she didnt make or otherwise 
authorise. 
What happened
Between 20-28 June 2021, a series of nine payments were made from Miss Hs account to a 
Cryptocurrency platform which totalled £1,897. The payments were made by mobile banking 
transfer. Miss H said she does have an account with the Cryptocurrency company, but she 
has never used it and denies making or otherwise authorising these transactions. She said 
she became aware of them when she logged into her online banking and raised the disputed 
transactions with Barclays as soon as she saw them. Miss H couldnt explain exactly how 
someone had accessed her mobile/online banking to make the transactions, and explained 
that she:  
had her mobile phone with her throughout the period of the disputed transactions  
though she did have to get her phone replaced around this time; 
did have to take her phone to get repaired around this time too; 
has checked with her mobile phone service provider who confirmed that her SIM had 
not been duplicated; 
does also recall losing her card at some point before these transactions took place 
which she said could explain how someone had her card details;
traded her broken laptop in some months before the disputed transactions, without 
being able to remove all of her personal information as it had broken; 
was aware that she had let her partner know her security details over email as she 
has health problems that impact her short term memory;
had stored her security details in her mobile phone; 
She also explained to our service that she had reported the matter to Action Fraud at the 
time, and had also been the victim of someone trying to fraudulently obtain loans in her 
name around the same time. 
Barclays reviewed the disputed transactions and declined to refund the transactions. They 
felt that it was most likely Miss H had made or otherwise authorised the transactions as: 
the new payee was set up on a mobile device which had the same mobile number as 
Miss K had registered with them; 
adding the new payee required her card details including the long card number, the 
CVV and the expiry date.
Miss Hs passcode was required each time someone logged on to make a payment; 
One of the payments utilized her mobile PIN Sentry device. 
Whilst there were three mobile phone devices used before, during and after the 
relevant period, all devices used her phone number. 
They did not feel that any of Miss Hs explanations provided a plausible explanation for how 
someone could have obtained all the details required in order to have made these 
transactions without her authorisation. 
Miss H was unhappy with Barclays refusal to refund the disputed transactions, so she 
brought her complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into what happened, 
and didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. This is because they agreed with 
Barclays that it appeared to be most likely that the transactions were completed by Miss H or 
someone with her authorisation. Miss H remained unhappy, so the case has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Generally, Barclays can hold Miss H liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that it is more likely than not that she authorised these payments or gave someone 
else consent to make them on her behalf. Im satisfied from Barclays technical evidence that 
the payments were properly authenticated  Miss Hs genuine security credentials and card 
details were used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this 
case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Barclays to hold Miss H liable. So, I need 
to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Miss H 
consented to these transactions being made. Having done so, I think on balance it is most 
likely Miss H authorised these transactions. Ill explain why. 
Miss H explained she lost her card around the time of the disputed transactions, 
which could explain how an unknown third party had her card details. Barclays notes 
say that she reported her card lost or stolen a month prior to the disputed 
transactions. And their evidence shows that the payments were made using the 
details from the replacement card  not the original  so the loss of the card does not 
explain how an unknown third party could have accessed her card details. 
A SIM card with Miss Hs registered phone number was used when making the 
disputed transactions. This is the number she has registered with Barclays, and the 
contact number she gave our service. She told us that her mobile phone service 
provider confirmed that her SIM card had not been duplicated  which means that 
her genuine SIM was used in making these transactions. So whilst a different device 
was used for some transactions  it is clear that her SIM was used throughout. So 
whilst this could have been someone else putting her SIM in their device, I do not 
think it is the most likely scenario here. 
I say this because whilst Miss H explained that her device was replaced and her 
screen repaired during this time, which technically could provide someone the access 
to her SIM required to use it to access her mobile banking, it appears her device was 
replaced after the disputed transactions. I have reached this conclusion because the 
technical evidence does show the device used for genuine transactions was changed 
to a new device, which was then used consistently over the coming months. And 
whilst there were two devices used to transact on Miss Hs account in the periods 
prior to and during the disputed transactions, there are genuine transactions in the 
hours and minutes between the disputed and genuine transactions on the 27 July 
that all took place using her genuine SIM  and given that there are as few as eight 
minutes between genuine and disputed transactions, it seems unlikely that an 
unknown third party could have taken and replaced her genuine SIM without her 
noticing- particularly as she said she was alone at this time. So even if someone had managed to obtain her card details, I cannot see a plausible way in which they would 
have also obtained her genuine SIM. 
Miss H did say that she had her security credentials on her phone, and that they 
were known to some close and trusted individuals such as her partner. So, I think 
there is a plausible explanation as to how someone known to her could have 
completed the transactions  but I dont think this is the most likely scenario here 
either. I say this because those who know her security details appear to have known 
them for some time, and it would seem strange for them to make these transactions 
but not commit any other fraudulent activity on her account before or, as far as I am 
aware, since these transactions. And Miss H does not think someone known to her 
whom she shared her security details with would have done this. I also cannot see 
why an unknown third party with access to Miss Hs phone and SIM would remove 
the SIM and put it in a new device  an unnecessary risk with no benefit. They could 
have simply completed the transactions on her device which would be quicker, thus 
reducing the likelihood of being caught. Its clear that Miss H was at least near her 
phone during the period of the disputed transactions, as I said above, as there were 
just eight minutes between a disputed transaction and a genuine one  with both 
taking place after midnight. She said that she was alone at that time  so it is unclear 
how someone known to her could have taken her SIM and replaced it without her 
noticing, for her to then use her card and SIM a mere eight minutes later. 
There were genuine transactions between the disputed transactions which were all 
mobile banking transfers and other logins, so I would have expected her to see the 
previous transactions and have reported the disputed transactions prior to the 
second batch of disputed transactions and reported it to Barclays. 
There were no further attempts to use her card details to make disputed transactions 
after the 28 July, or after they were reported. If an unknown third party had managed 
to get all of the security and card details required to complete these transactions, I 
might expect that they would continue to attempt further transactions to maximize 
their illicit profits. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I think its fair and reasonable for Barclays to refuse to refund 
the disputed transactions because I think its more likely than not that Miss H made or 
otherwise authorised the transactions that she disputes.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman