DRN-1727817
The complaint
Mr Q complains American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex) didnt award 
reward points after he successfully applied for a new credit card.
What happened
Mr Q contacted Amex to check some details about an offer he saw online. During the call, 
Amex told Mr Q he would qualify for 30,000 reward points if he applied for a Starwood 
Preferred Guest Credit Card. Mr Q subsequently applied and the credit card was approved. 
Mr Q later complained as Amex didnt give him the reward points he called about. Amex 
responded on 31 December 2019 and agreed Mr Q had been given incorrect information 
when he called. But Amex said that as Mr Q was an existing customer he didnt qualify for 
the reward points. Amex apologised and awarded 5,000 membership points to his existing 
account. 
Mr Q referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator thought Amex had dealt with Mr Qs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do 
anything else. Mr Q didnt accept and asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr Q is annoyed. He called Amex to check a specific element of its 
eligibility criteria and was given the wrong information. I agree that Amex made a mistake 
when its call handler told Mr Q he would qualify for the reward points if he applied. 
Our services approach to complaints is that we try to put the consumer back into the 
position they would have been in had no error been made. In this case, whilst I appreciate it 
may feel illogical, the error wasnt that Amex refused to award the reward points after Mr Q 
successfully applied for a new credit card. Amexs mistake was that it gave incorrect 
information about Mr Qs eligibility for the reward points. 
I cant tell Amex to award reward points Mr Q was never eligible to receive. The correct 
position in this case should have been that Mr Q was told he wasnt eligible for the reward 
points. I understand that Mr Q closed his new credit card once he found out he wouldnt 
receive the reward points. Ive thought about how Amex dealt with Mr Qs complaint and 
whether the settlement was reasonable. 
Amex upheld Mr Qs complaint and awarded 5,000 membership points. I know Mr Q wanted 
the reward points he discussed during his call with Amex, but as Ive said above, he wasnt 
eligible to receive them. Whilst I accept Amex did give Mr Q the wrong information, Im 
satisfied it has apologised and awarded 5,000 membership points to recognise its error. I think that fairly reflects the impact of Amexs error on Mr Q so Im not going to tell it to 
increase the settlement or take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman