DRN-4119841
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC transferred the balance of his late fathers account to 
his own personal account in error.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known by both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has made several points in bringing this complaint. Id like to assure Mr P that I have 
read and considered all the correspondence in full  including the extracts from our website 
that he has referred to. But as an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with 
reaching a fair and reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it is not 
necessary for me to respond to every point made but to consider the crux of the complaint 
and the individual circumstances of it.
Im sorry to hear of Mr Bs bereavement and I acknowledge that Lloyds transferring his late 
fathers account balance to his account in error would have been upsetting in the 
circumstances. But, overall, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. I 
appreciate Mr B will be disappointed, so Ill explain why.
It is not in dispute that Lloyds made a mistake  it has acknowledged that Mr Bs personal 
account details were entered as the beneficiary account when Mr B had not given such an 
instruction. I understand Mr B would like an explanation about how this mistake was made. 
Unfortunately, businesses do make mistakes, and Im persuaded the mistake here was due 
to human error. Lloyds has apologised for the error, and it also accepted that it had sent a 
letter to Mr B which contained incorrect information. In recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused it offered Mr B £50 compensation.  
Mr B is seeking further compensation, but I have found no reason to make an additional 
award. Mr B has not submitted evidence of financial losses or costs incurred because of 
these errors for me to consider. I note Mr B has said this issue could have caused problems 
as he wasnt the sole executor of his late fathers estate. But Ive not seen anything to 
suggest this issue did cause any further problems. And, as the investigator explained, I can 
only consider the impact of what actually happened, not what might have happened. 
I have considered the crux of the complaint and the impact of the error on Mr B. In doing so, 
Ive considered how Lloyds responded once it was made aware of its error and the action  
Mr B needed to take to put things right. And Ive found that Lloyds understood what had 
gone wrong, quickly acknowledged the mistake and provided information so that Mr B could 
transfer the funds back to Lloyds pending his instructions about where the funds should be 
sent.  
I note Mr B has said he didnt receive the final response letter. I understand a copy has now 
been provided. I should explain that  generally, complaint handling isnt something we 
consider as its not a regulated activity. But, from what Ive seen, Mr B was aware of the 
outcome of his complaint following a telephone call with Lloyds. And Mr B wasnt prevented 
from referring his complaint to us as a result of not receiving the written response.
              
Overall, I find £50 to be a fair and reasonable amount of compensation in all the 
circumstances of what happened in this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint - in the sense that Lloyds Bank PLCs 
offer of £50 is fair in all the circumstances of this complaint.
  
Lloyds Bank PLC should now pay Mr B £50 if it has not done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman