DRN-2419108
The complaint
Miss J is unhappy Shop Direct Finance Company Limited duplicated a payment on her 
account and delayed in closing the account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known by both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here.  The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The purchase made on Miss Js account was on a buy now, pay later deal and as 
such was treated separately to the main shopping account. As it neared the end of 
that deal, the spending was moved to the main shopping account and therefore 
became repayable through the direct debit set up on the account. 
Miss J paid off the amount owing but the direct debit wasnt stopped in time which 
meant it became pending on Miss Js bank account. Shop Direct reversed the direct 
debit and credited Miss Js account with £15 to cover any charges she may have 
received because of this error. I think this was a fair and reasonable action to take as 
it meant Miss J wasnt left out of pocket by the timing of the payments going through 
the account. No charges were actually placed on the account and Miss J was sent a 
cheque for this amount to bring the account to zero.
Miss J complained about how she was spoken to on a call, Shop Direct couldnt 
listen to the call but recognised she had been caused distress and inconvenience by 
what happened so offered her £50 compensation. I think this was a fair offer. 
The account was placed in a dormant state instead of being closed immediately. This 
meant there was a delay in the account and associated credit agreement being 
closed as Miss J had requested. While I appreciate this caused Miss J frustration, I 
dont think any further compensation is due here.  
In total Miss J has received £65 from Shop Direct due to the errors made, which I 
think is a sufficient amount to reflect the trouble and upset shes been caused. 
 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman