DRN-3812835
The complaint
Ms W complains about Legal and General Assurance Society Limiteds (L&G) decision to 
stop paying her income protection insurance claim.
What happened
Ms W is insured under her employers group income protection insurance policy.
In July 2020, Ms W was signed-off from work suffering from severe facial pain and rib pain. 
She was referred to an ear, nose and throat (ENT) consultant surgeon, who recommended 
that Ms W should undergo sinus surgery. Her employer made a claim on the income 
protection insurance policy. L&G accepted Ms Ws claim in full from 19 October 2020.
The surgery was carried out on 13 November 2020. Ms W was initially signed-off from work 
for a four-week period and was due to undergo a review after four weeks. This didnt take 
place until late January 2021. Ms Ws GP signed her off for a further period, as she was 
suffering from post-operative pain and because she was undergoing further investigations 
for another condition.
L&G requested information from the ENT consultant surgeon about Ms Ws surgery and her 
condition. The surgeon stated that in his view, Ms W couldve returned to work on a full-time 
basis two to three weeks after the surgery had taken place. On that basis, L&G decided to 
cease benefit from 4 December 2020  three weeks after the surgery had been carried out.
Ms W was unhappy with L&Gs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Ms Ws complaint should be upheld. He didnt think there was 
sufficient medical evidence to show that Ms W was prevented from returning to work on 4 
December 2020 because of an incapacity. So he thought itd been fair for L&G to limit policy 
benefit up to that date.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 November 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I thought Ms Ws complaint should be partly upheld and that L&G should 
pay benefit until 11 December 2020. I said :
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things,
the terms of the policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether L&G treated
Ms W fairly.
Ive first turned to consider the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Ms
Ws employers contract with L&G. The policy says:
Subject to the terms of this policy, the benefit will be paid in respect of an insured member
from the benefit start date, provided he is a disabled member.
The policy says that L&W will terminate benefit for a specific list of reasons. One of those
reasons is:
if the insured member ceases to be a disabled member.
L&G has defined what it means by a disabled member as follows:
Means an insured member who at any time,
i. meets the incapacity definition, and
ii. is not engaged in any other occupation, other than one which causes payment of a partial
benefit in accordance with Part 3, Section 7 of this policy.
And the definitions section of the policy says that own occupation incapacity:
Means the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him from
performing the essential duties of his occupation immediately before the start of the deferred
period.
I think the policy terms make it clear that L&G will stop paying incapacity benefit if its
satisfied that an insured person is no longer prevented from carrying out their essential
duties as a result of injury or illness.
In this case, L&G accepts that Ms W was incapacitated from carrying out her role between
19 October and 4 December 2020 as a result of her sinus surgery. It based its decision to
stop benefit on 4 December 2020 on a report provided by Ms Ws consultant surgeon. L&G
received a copy of this report in February 2021. L&G had asked the consultant when they
expected Ms W to be able to return to work. The consultant answered:
She should be able to return to work 2-3 weeks after her surgery, on a full time basis.
L&G decided to terminate benefit exactly three weeks after Ms Ws surgery had taken place.
So Ive gone on to think about whether this was a fair decision for it to reach.
Ms W has provided us with a copy of a fit note, dated 13 November 2020, which she says
was signed by the consultant surgeon who carried out her surgery. Its difficult to say with
certainty who signed the fit note, but I can see it was clearly issued on the date Ms W 
underwent surgery and so it seems more likely than not that it was her treating consultant
surgeon who did so. The fit note states that the reason for Ms Ws absence was surgery
and that she would be unfit for work for four weeks. As such then, the medical evidence from
the date of the operation indicates that Ms W was incapacitated as a result of the surgery for
at least four weeks from that date. And it seems to me that Ms W couldnt have returned to
work until at least four weeks after the surgery had taken place unless a revised fit note had
been issued in the intervening time. Theres no evidence that such a fit note was issued.
Four weeks post-surgery was 11 December 2020. So I currently think that L&G should pay
benefit until 11 December 2020, as Im satisfied that the medical evidence shows that Ms W
was incapacitated until that date.
I appreciate that Ms Ws GP provided a further fit note. This was dated 11 December 2020
and stated that Ms W was unfit for work for a further month, due to the surgery shed
undergone. Ive thought carefully about this. But theres no evidence from the consultant
surgeon who treated Ms W which indicates that they felt she wouldnt be fit for work after the
initial four-week period had elapsed. And indeed, it seems they subsequently told L&G that
Ms W wouldve been fit for full-time work after two-three weeks post-surgery (although it
appears the report was issued some weeks after the first fit note had run out).And Ms W hasnt provided any report or letter from the consultant surgeon which sets out
what was discussed during her follow-up appointment in late January 2021. So theres no
evidence from her treating specialist which shows that Ms W hadnt recovered as planned or
that she was incapacitated by the surgery for longer than the four weeks she was initially
signed-off for. If Ms W is able to obtain such evidence from the treating specialist, its open
to her to send this to L&G for its further consideration.
I note too that the GP hasnt set out why they believed Ms W remained incapacitated or what
her remaining symptoms were. Ms W described residual pain and swelling to L&Gs
rehabilitation specialist, which affected her ability to wear the glasses she needed for work.
But L&Gs medical officer referred to post-surgical aids which wouldve been available to her
to assist with this. I appreciate Ms W wasnt made aware of these aids until some time after
the surgery had taken place. But I dont think I could fairly find that L&G should be held
responsible if Ms Ws treating team didnt make her aware of the option to use such aids. As
the investigator said, L&G wasnt treating Ms W and so I wouldnt expect it to offer her post-
surgery treatment advice or options.
It's clear that during the relevant period, Ms W was also undergoing investigations into an
adrenal nodule, which had been diagnosed. She says her GP felt she shouldnt return to
work until these investigations had been carried out. These investigations dont appear to
have been related to the sinus condition which had led to the surgery. It seems the
investigations took place on 18 February 2021. Having reviewed the referral for investigation
into the nodule, dated 12 January 2021, theres no indication that the nodule was causing
Ms W any symptoms nor that it wouldve prevented her from working. So I dont think it was
unfair for L&G to conclude that there was insufficient evidence to show that either the nodule
or the investigations into it had led to Ms W being incapacitated.
I sympathise with Ms W, as I dont doubt that she continued to suffer pain and discomfort
following her surgery for longer than shed hoped. But in my view, theres simply insufficient
specialist medical evidence which shows that her condition prevented her from fulfilling the
essential duties of her role on a full-time basis after 11 December 2020. And so I currently
think it would be fair for L&G to stop paying benefit from that date onwards.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence they wished me to consider.
In summary, L&G said it was not typical for us to rely on a fit note as medical evidence. And 
in this case, the fit note of 13 November 2020 contradicted the consultants later report. So it 
said it didnt consider the note to be satisfactory evidence of incapacity. Nevertheless, it 
agreed to arrange one weeks further benefit to be paid to Ms W in full resolution of the 
complaint.
Ms W disagreed with my provisional findings. She felt Id overlooked an important aspect of 
her complaint. She said shed been told post-surgery that shed receive a follow-up 
appointment letter. Her appointment was subsequently booked for 21 January 2021. But she 
said that at that appointment, the consultant said that an appointment had been made for 
around a month earlier  but shed never been sent that letter. This meant she hadnt had 
the opportunity to discuss the post-operative issues shed suffered during December 2020.
Ms W said that during the appointment on 21 January 2021, the consultant disclosed that 
during her surgery, the severity of her condition had become apparent. During the 
appointment, the consultant had told Ms W that her cartilage was still healing and shouldve 
healed within a couple of weeks. She felt that the hospitals administrative failings that led to 
her being penalised in respect of the time she was incapacitated. Shed been prevented from 
discussing her extreme pain with the treating consultant during December 2020. If the 
cartilage had still been healing in late January 2021, she felt this showed this would also have been the case during December 2020. So she considered I needed to take this into 
account when deciding her period of incapacity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still find that L&G should pay benefit until 11 December 2020 and Ill 
explain why.
L&G has now agreed to pay Ms W a further week of incapacity benefit to represent the 
period between 4 and 11 December 2020. For completeness though, I would add that the fit 
note of 13 November 2020 is contemporaneous, objective medical evidence which indicates 
that the doctor who completed it believed that Ms W would be unable to work for a four-week 
period following her surgery. As I set out in my provisional decision, Ms W says that it was 
the consultant who signed the fit note. As such, it remains the case that I consider it 
appropriate to take this piece of medical evidence into account when considering the 
evidence as a whole. I acknowledge the consultant later stated that he felt Ms W could 
return to work full-time within two-three weeks of the surgery. But the fit note which Ms W 
says the consultant signed on the day of the operation itself, indicated that shed be unfit for 
work for a four-week period. So I remain satisfied that its fair and reasonable for me to place 
weight on this contemporaneous medical evidence when deciding the fair outcome to this 
complaint.
Ms W feels that due to a potential administrative error on her hospitals part, she lost out on 
the opportunity to discuss her ongoing pain and recovery with the consultant during 
December 2020. I sympathise with her position. But as Ive explained, L&G isnt responsible 
for any of the actions of the hospital. Thats because it wasnt treating Ms W. Its reasonably 
entitled to rely on the medical evidence its provided with in order to assess whether a 
policyholder a) meets the definition of incapacity and b) if a claims in payment, whether they 
continue to do so.
In this case, whilst I dont doubt Ms Ws testimony, theres simply no objective medical 
evidence which shows that she remained incapacitated after 11 December 2020. Neither 
L&G nor I have been provided with a copy of a consultants report following the January 
2021 appointment which indicates that she was still incapacitated after 11 December 2020. 
So I dont think I can reasonably require L&G to pay benefit after that date.  It still remains 
open to Ms W to obtain further evidence from her consultant in support of her position for 
L&Gs consideration should she wish to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive give above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
partly uphold this complaint.
I direct Legal and General Assurance Society Limited to pay Ms W additional incapacity 
benefit between 4 and 11 December 2020. It must add interest to this amount at an annual 
rate of 8% simple from the date this payment was due until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Lisa BarhamOmbudsman