DRN-4284335
The complaint
Mr A complains that Wakam declined a claim made on his commercial motor insurance 
policy after his car was stolen.
 
What happened
Mr A advertised his car for sale and prospective buyers came to view it. But unbeknown to 
Mr A, the thieves swapped one of the cars keys and were able to steal the car. Wakam said 
theft by deception was excluded from cover under the policys terms and conditions. So it 
declined to pay the claim. Mr A thought this was unfair. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the policy 
exclusion was clear. But he thought it was unfair for Wakam to rely on it to decline the claim 
as he thought Mr A had done all he could to prevent the theft. So he thought Wakam should 
consider the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
Wakam replied asking for an Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a 
final decision. Wakam cited a similar complaint that had not been upheld by our service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A described the circumstances of the theft. Three potential buyers came to his house to 
view his car. Mr A said CCTV was in operation and he didnt let the buyers out of his sight. 
But he did let the buyers use the cars key to start it. Wakam thought the buyer must have 
then swapped the key for one coded to a different car. Later that evening, the CCTV showed 
men walk up to the car and open it and drive away, most likely using the stolen key. I can 
see that Mr As car was later recovered by the police, albeit damaged. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Wakam relied on an exclusion from cover to decline the claim. On page 10 of the policy 
booklet under Fire and Theft: What is not covered it states.
We will not be liable for loss of your vehicle where possession is obtained by 
misrepresentation or deception.
I think this is a common exclusion in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual or 
unreasonable. It is significant, but I think its clearly enough set out in the policy wording for 
Wakam to reasonably rely on it. 
But we think the intention of terms such as this is to exclude claims where the policyholder 
hasnt taken reasonable steps to protect the vehicle from theft. So Ive thought about 
whether Mr A took reasonable care of his car when he invited the potential buyers to view it. 
I can see that Mr A advertised his car on a reputable site and retained the mobile phone 
number of the potential buyers. He was later warned, too late, that the number belonged to 
someone not trustworthy. 
Mr A was attended by his brother and the viewing was recorded by CCTV as he said he 
wanted to make sure they were kept safe. From his account, during the viewing Mr A kept 
close to the potential buyers and they were always within his sight. 
Mr A didnt allow the buyers to sit in his car or to drive it. He handed over the spare key so 
that the buyer could check that it worked to start the car by leaning inside a window. So the 
key was out of Mr As hands for four or five seconds. 
The buyer then returned the key to Mr A, and he later returned it to its storage place. Mr A 
had earlier started the car using his main key. So I dont think it was unreasonable for him to 
expect that the buyer would want to check that both keys worked. 
Im satisfied that Mr A had done all he could reasonably be expected to do in the 
circumstances to keep his car safe. He hadnt handed over control of the car, and it was 
reasonable that he hadnt anticipated the thief swapping the key by sleight of hand. And so I 
think it was unfair and unreasonable for Wakam to decline his claim because of the 
exclusion. And I think it should now reconsider his claim under the remaining terms and 
conditions of his policy. 
Wakam cited a similar complaint which this service didnt uphold. But I think there are 
differences in the circumstances. And we decide each complaint on its individual merits. So 
Im not satisfied that the non-uphold decision on this other case is a sufficient reason to not 
uphold Mr As complaint.
 
Putting things right
I require Wakam to reconsider Mr As claim under the remaining terms and conditions of his 
policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Wakam to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman