DRN-2290546
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) avoided her car insurance policy
(treated it like it never existed), didnt pay her claim and retained the premiums shed paid.
What happened
Mr A, Mrs Ks partner, took out the policy in Mrs Ks name with Covea through a price
comparison site. It was for his car and he was a named driver. Mr A has been dealing with
this complaint so Ill mainly refer to him throughout.
In September 2019 the car was stolen and Mr A tried to make a claim on the policy. As part
of their checks, Covea identified three previous claims that Mr A had made. They said they
hadnt been declared when taking out the policy.
Covea said Mr A had answered the question it asked about any driving incidents or
insurance claims the named driver had made in the last five years incorrectly. Mr A
answered No but he had made three previous claims in the preceding five years.
And it considered this to be a reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid
the policy, decline the claim because of this and keep the premium already paid.
Mr A, on behalf of Mrs K, brought the complaint to us and our investigator thought it should
be upheld. She agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. But didnt think this
was deliberate or reckless. She believed it was careless. She thought Covea were entitled to
avoid the policy and decline the claim, but that it should return the premium.
Covea doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
They still felt that Mr A, on behalf of Mrs K, was reckless rather than careless by not
disclosing the previous claims as the onus was on him to disclose any relevant material
facts. They also said Mr A had a chance to contact them if he believed any of the information
in the policy documentation was incorrect, but didnt do so.
I issued my provisional decision in October 2020 outlining my intended findings based on the 
available evidence  that I didnt intend to uphold this complaint. Neither party provided any 
new evidence so Ive reached the same outcome - as Ill explain in more detail below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Covea thinks Mr A (on behalf of Mrs K) failed to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when he didnt disclose that hed made three motor insurance claims in
the previous five years.
The question asked in relation to the named driver was: In the last 5 years, have they [the
named driver] had any accidents, claims or damage involving any motor vehicles? Mr A
answered No to this question.
Mr A has said he forgot about the claims and felt that if any of the information was incorrect
then Covea would contact him after his application.
After the online application was completed Mrs K was also sent documentation which
included a Statement of Fact. This document explained that if any of the information that
had been provided was incomplete or incorrect to make contact. But Mr A didnt do so.
I think that Mr A (on behalf of Mrs K) didnt take reasonable care to not make a
misrepresentation when taking this policy out online when asked a clear question.
Covea has provided relevant parts of its underwriting criteria to show that if Mr A had not
made the misrepresentation it wouldnt have offered the policy on the same terms. This
means Im satisfied Mr As misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Covea has said Mr As misrepresentation was reckless because the question asked was
clear and he failed to provide the correct information. Ive considered the definition of a
qualifying deliberate or reckless misrepresentation under CIDRA. In summary, if a consumer
tells an insurer something they knew was untrue or misleading, or did not care whether or
not something was untrue or misleading, and knew that the matter to which the
misrepresentation related was relevant to the insurer or did not care whether or not it a
relevant to the insurer.
Having thought about whats considered deliberate or reckless under CIDRA alongside
whats happened here, I think Mr A made a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation.
I say this because Mr A said during a phone call to our service in November 2019 that hed
had a previous experience of taking out insurance and paying higher premiums because of
previous accidents. So I think he wouldve been reasonably aware of the importance of
providing accurate information to Covea.
In June 2020 Mr A told us that it wasnt his intention to provide incorrect information, but that
Covea didnt let him know there was an issue with the information provided until he tried to
make a claim. Although insurers may occasionally check the information given at the time of
application, these checks normally dont happen until a claim is made on a policy. As Ive
already found, Mr A wouldve been reasonably aware of the importance of providing
accurate information and he should have taken reasonable care to do so and not relied on
Covea to check the information.
Mr A told Covea that he simply forgot the dates of the previous accidents. Whilst I accept
that memories can fade over time, Ive also noted that the most recent claim prior to takingthe policy out was in April 2018. This policy was taken out the following year, in July 2019.
I think that Mr A should have been aware of the previous accidents or claims - at the very
least, the most recent claim hed made in 2018 - and that it was important information that
was relevant to the insurer. This was information that Mr A should have taken care to
provide accurately to Covea, but he didnt.
Therefore, having considered everything, I agree with Covea that Mr As misrepresentation
was deliberate or reckless.
Ive also considered that even in a scenario where Mr A didnt recall the dates of any of the
accidents or claims whilst taking the policy out online, he also had another opportunity to
check if the information hed provided was correct when Covea sent documentation following
his application. But he didnt do so.
Im satisfied Covea was entitled to avoid Mrs Ks policy in accordance with CIDRA. And, as
this means that  in effect  the policy never existed, Covea does not have to deal with the
claim following the theft of the car and I think its fair that it doesnt have to refund the
premiums Mrs K paid. And - as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to
misrepresentation cases - I think allowing Covea to rely on it to avoid Mrs Ks policy
produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A on behalf of 
Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman