DRN-3381242
The complaint
G Limited (G) complains, through its director (Mr G), that Allianz Insurance plc is
responsible for poor service in connection with its commercial vehicle insurance policy.
Where I refer to Allianz, I include repairers and others insofar as I hold Allianz responsible
for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a van with manual transmission, first
registered in 2017. G acquired the van for use in its business in the construction industry.
For the year from November 2020, G had the van (and a couple of other vehicles) insured
on a policy with Allianz.
Mr G reported that on 17 April 2021, a third party had caused damage to the front offside
wheel of the van. Allianz arranged for the van to be transported to an appointed repairer. An
assessor assessed the van and later did a report.
The repairer did some work including replacing a front wheel and repairing suspension and
steering. The repairer drove the van back to G. But on about 11 May 2021, Mr G complained
about the quality of the repairs and about further damage. The repairer took the van back for
remedial work.
The repairer delivered the van a second time on about 21 May 2021. Mr G complained that it
was difficult to select the gears. The repairer took the van back a second time. Allianz got a
report saying there was a problem with gear selection, but this wasnt related to the accident.
G got its usual garage to replace the gear cables and to do a wheel alignment check. G
complained to Allianz that its repairer had never done an alignment check.
In late June 2021, Mr G sent Allianz the garages invoice for £289.60 plus VAT, a total of
£347.52. In early July 2021, Mr G wrote to Allianz asking for compensation for time spent, as
well as payment of the garages invoice.
By a final response dated late July 2021, Allianz agreed to cover the costs for wheel
alignment and to pay £100.00 compensation. But Allianz wouldnt cover the gear cable
replacement.
G sent the van for wheel balancing and got an invoice dated 2 August 2021 for £15.00 plus
VAT.
G brought the complaint to us a few days later.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that
Allianz acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to G and 
to Allianz on 19 February 2022. I summarise my findings:
I found it more likely that the gear cables had been stretched in the accident or by 
Allianzs repairer.
So I was minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct Allianz to reimburse G the cost 
of the cable replacement. The invoice form Gs garage is for cable replacement and 
wheel alignment. As Allianz has already offered to reimburse the costs of the wheel 
alignment, Allianz should reimburse all of the invoice, save the VAT which G should 
be able to recover through the input/output system.
As G has been out of pocket since about 19 June 2021, I was minded to direct 
Allianz to add interest at our usual rate.
I found it likely that Allianz caused G unnecessary inconvenience for several weeks.
Subject to any further information from G or from Allianz, my provisional decision was to 
uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct Allianz Insurance plc to pay G:
1. £289.60 in reimbursement of the invoice from the garage; and
2. simple interest on that amount at the yearly rate of 8% from 19 June 2021 to the 
date of reimbursement; and
3. £500.00 for inconvenience.
On behalf of G, Mr G disagreed with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that: 
The first time they got the van back, the steering geometry was so far out it was 
pulling the van across the road. 
The garages driver when collecting the van back knew the van was unsafe to drive.
The second time it came back it was still pulling to one side. The van only drove 
correctly after a proper 4- wheel alignment check.
Allianzs repairer committed fraud.
From the first return of the vehicle, all his costs were unnecessary and due to gross 
incompetence.
He does work on classic cars and off-road vehicles and can strip and rebuild most of 
the machines in his own workshop.
£500.00 isnt enough compensation for his companys wasted time.
Allianz hasnt responded to the provisional decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That information includes batches of emails that Mr G forwarded to us on 16 September
2021 of respectively 40, 45, 2, 13 and 10 pages. The information also includes a document
sent to us by Allianz with attachments embedded within it.
The Financial Ombudsman Service looks at each individual complaint. If we find that the
financial firm has done something wrong, we look at the impact on the complainant and we
direct compensation or other redress to try to put right that impact. We look at the actual
impact, rather than what mightve happened, for example as a possibly serious impact of
safety issues.
We do not assess compensation by reference to the seriousness of the wrongdoing. In other
words we dont assess compensation at a level to disapprove or punish or deter wrongdoing.
By April 2021, the recorded milage of the van was about 56,000.
I havent seen enough evidence to show that Allianz sent the van to a body shop that
couldnt do mechanical repairs. But I do hold Allianz responsible for the quality of the repairs.
I find that the repairer didnt do the repair work correctly the first time. Otherwise the repairer
wouldnt have done the remedial body work Mr G pointed out.
A consequence of the poor first repair was that G was without its van for the period from 
about 11 to about 21 May 2021. And that continued when G sent the van back a second 
time.
In late May 2021, Allianz got an engineer to inspect the van and do a report. The report
confirmed that the gears were difficult to select but expressed the opinion that this was due
to a partially seized gear selector mechanism and not related to the accident. Mr G is highly
critical of that report. But Mr G is not a qualified engineer. I will come back to the evidence 
from Gs garage.
After some further delay and conflicting information, on about 8 June 2021, Allianz delivered
the van to Gs garage.
I note that on 9 June 2021, the Allianz claims-handler expressed the following to Mr G:
I am incredibly aware the service provided has been unsatisfactory and completely
under the expectation set by Allianz for its suppliers.
On 15 June 2021, Mr G sent an email starting as follows:
We have collected our van today from [Gs garage] and returned the hire van .[First
name] says the repair looks ok to suspension and steering it was the gear linkage not
the gear box. He sent the van for full alignment check and it was out and needed
adjustment
And the invoice from Gs garage (dated 19 June 2021) said that it had replaced the gear
cables and that the wheel alignment had needed adjusting.Both Mr Gs email and his garage omitted to say that at this time that it was the opinion of
the garage that the impact of the accident had stretched the gear cables. And the garage
didnt criticise the Allianz engineers report.
But theres no evidence of a problem with gear selection before the accident. Mr G reported
that problem on about 21 May 2021. And the van hadnt been available to do much mileage
since the accident. So I dont find it likely that the gear selection problem was a coincidence.
I find it more likely that the gear cables had been stretched in the accident or by Allianzs
repairer.
So I find it fair and reasonable to direct Allianz to reimburse G the cost of the cable 
replacement. The invoice form Gs garage is for cable replacement and wheel alignment. As 
Allianz has already offered to reimburse the costs of the wheel alignment, Allianz should 
reimburse all of the invoice, save the VAT which G should be able to recover through the 
input/output system.
As G has been out of pocket since about 19 June 2021, I will direct Allianz to add interest at 
our usual rate.
Ive seen a wheel alignment sheet that Mr G says came from Allianzs repairer. Ive also
seen a sheet Mr G says came from his garage. Ive noted the differences. And I know Mr G
regards it as clear that the garages sheet proves that the repairers sheet is fraudulent.
But Mr G isnt an expert and he hasnt sent us an expert opinion, for example from his
garage. So I consider that Mr G has fallen a long way short of showing that Allianz or its
repairer submitted a fraudulent alignment report.
In any event, Gs garages invoice says that there was a satisfactory repair of the wheel,
suspension and steering. The invoice says that the garage adjusted the alignment. And
Allianz offered to reimburse the cost of that.
Also, theres no evidence that the van is unsafe or has a damaged chassis. Gs garage
hasnt said that.
I find Allianz responsible for G being without the use of its van from about 11 May to about
15 June 2021. G had a hire van and Mr G hasnt said that G paid for it.
I accept that the hire van was less secure and less convenient for Gs work. But Mr Gs letter
in early July 2021 doesnt contain the level of detail necessary to persuade me that Allianz
caused not only a waste of time by Mr G and Gs employees but also a measurable financial
loss to G.
However, I find it likely that Allianz caused G unnecessary inconvenience for several weeks.
So I find it fair and reasonable to direct Allianz to pay G £500.00 for such inconvenience.
Putting things right
Allianz should reimburse all of the invoice from Gs garage, save the VAT which G should be 
able to recover through the input/output system.
As G has been out of pocket since about 19 June 2021, I will direct Allianz to add interest at 
our usual rate.Allianz caused G unnecessary inconvenience for several weeks. So I find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Allianz to pay G £500.00 for such inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Allianz Insurance plc to pay G:
1. £289.60 in reimbursement of the invoice from the garage; and
2. simple interest on that amount at the yearly rate of 8% from 19 June 2021 to the date 
of reimbursement; and
3. £500.00 for inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman