DRN-2225086
The complaint
Mrs and Mr H say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1992. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. Nationwide disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive considered what Nationwide has said, but Ive still decided to uphold Mrs and Mr Hs 
complaint. I will explain why. 
I think Nationwide probably didnt give Mrs and Mr H clear enough information about the 
policys 90-day waiting period before any benefit could be paid, and then it was backdated 
only to day 61. I think this was a significant limitation in the policy: someone with no other 
means, to meet the mortgage in those three months, would expect to face real hardship and 
worry. 
So, Nationwide needed to make sure this was properly drawn to Mrs and Mr Hs attention, 
so that they could make an informed decision. 
Nationwide says Mrs and Mr H were made fully aware of the fact that the policy had a 90-
day waiting period. It hasnt though given good evidence to support this unambiguous 
assertion. 
Nationwide has referred to a leaflet, which it says would have been given to Mrs and Mr H. I 
dont have any evidence that it was actually given to them. But, even if it was, I dont think it 
would have been enough. The leaflet would have been in the form of six columns spread 
over a multi-folded double-sided sheet. The second column/fold does, under How it Works, 
refer to this aspect of the policy, but in language that suggests it is a benefit rather than a 
restriction  it doesnt clearly alert someone that this is a negative aspect of the policy. Later 
in the leaflet, on the last-but one column, there is a section Are There Any Exclusions. Here 
it says, The main ones are Any period of disablement or unemployment which does not 
exceed 90 days. This is legalistic language which wouldnt be immediately clear to many 
people. 
So I do think the information about the limitation wasnt sufficiently prominent or clear.
I think this would have mattered to Mrs and Mr H. Mr H (the person covered by this PPI) was 
entitled to little sick pay through his employment, and Mr and Mrs H seem to have had few 
other means to fall back on if they lost Mr Hs income. Nationwide has said that Mrs Hs 
income would have continued if Mr H lost his job or was off sick. But I dont think that would 
have made a significant difference  its likely they needed both incomes to cover their 
household outgoings including the mortgage (and this would have been taken into account 
by Mrs and Mr H, and by Nationwide, when working out what kind of mortgage they could 
afford). 
Nationwide says it has evidence that it would take a supportive stance if someone wasnt 
able to pay the mortgage during the waiting period. But, even if that is true, I dont think 
Mrs and Mr H would have known that at the time; nor necessarily would they have been 
assured by that. 
I think its likely, if theyd been given full and clear information, that Mrs and Mr H would have 
decided this PPI wasnt worth the cost. They would have seen that they could still suffer real 
hardship, even though they were paying for PPI. 
So I think the PPI was mis-sold. 
Putting things right
Nationwide should put Mrs and Mr H in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Nationwide 
should:
Pay Mrs and Mr H the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mrs and Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide Building Society to take off tax from this 
interest. Nationwide must give Mrs and Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs and Mr Hs complaint. 
I require Nationwide Building Society to pay Mrs and Mr H compensation in accordance with 
the calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman