DRN-4316435
The complaint
Mr F complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC handled a bank transfer.
What happened
Mr F attempted to make a bank transfer to pay a third-party who was undertaking work on 
his property. Barclays blocked the transfer as the payment triggered its security system 
which is designed to prevent fraud. 
When Mr F telephoned Barclays he was told the transaction would be cancelled off its 
system. So, Mr F made another attempt to make the payment using different account details. 
This transfer was successful. But Mr F later found that both transfers had been debited to his 
accounts. So, he complained to Barclays.
Barclays acknowledged its mistake and paid Mr F £100 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused. It told Mr F to contact the third-party to ask for the money to be returned. But Mr F 
says that the third-party refused to return the funds to him as they took the payment as being 
part of the final payment Mr F owed for the work being done although this wasnt due for 
another month.  
Mr F referred his complaint to this service as he didnt think £100 reflected the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him. He said he had to borrow from family and friends and take out 
a payday loan as the payment being made twice had left him short of money.
One of our investigations looked into Mr Fs complaint, but she thought the £100 paid by 
Barclays was fair. She said that statements for Mr Fs bank accounts didnt show he had had 
to borrow any money. And that Mr F had maintained a credit balance and hadnt incurred 
any charges.  
Mr F disagreed. He said hed been unable to pay his mortgage and utility bills. And he asked 
for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the investigator. I acknowledge 
Mr F will be disappointed, so Ill explain why.
Barclays has not disputed making an error here. So, what I need to decide is whether £100 
compensation is fair in all the circumstances of this complaint or if Barclays is required to do 
anything further to put things right.
Mr F hasnt disputed that he would have had to pay the third-party another £1,500 at a later 
date  hes mentioned about a month later. But he says that if the mistake hadnt happened, 
he would have had time to save the extra £1,500. And because one payment of £1,500 was 
paid too soon he was left short of money, was unable to pay his mortgage and bills and had 
to borrow from family and friends and take out a payday loan.
Ive looked at Mr Fs bank account statements and Ive seen that both Mr Fs accounts 
remained in credit after both transfers were debited. And the statements dont show that any 
mortgage payments or utility bills were returned unpaid or that a payday loan was taken out. 
Overall, Ive not seen enough persuasive evidence that that would make me think Mr F had 
had to borrow money or had been unable to meet his financial commitments. 
So, while I accept that Barclays made a mistake, Im not persuaded the impact would 
warrant a compensation payment of more than £100  particularly, as it appears that the 
money would have always been due to the third-party. 
Overall, I find that Barclays compensation payment fairly reflects the inconvenience its error 
caused Mr F. And so, I wont be asking Barclays to take any further action in respect of this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that Barclays has 
already paid fair compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman