DRN-2299953
Complaint
Mr C says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr C bought the policy in May 2006 at the same time as taking out a credit card during a 
meeting in a branch.
The policy cost no more than 79p per £100 of Mr Cs outstanding monthly statement 
balance. And if he was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 
10% of that balance for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
RBS has provided a copy of Mr Cs credit card application form which has a section about 
other products including PPI. The box to agree to PPI has been ticked, but other products 
such as card protection have not. Mr C has signed the box to agree to the selection, so I 
think Mr C was aware PPI was optional and that he agreed to take it out at the time.
Mr C says he told the banks representative that he didnt need PPI because he already had 
enough cover, but the representative continued to discuss PPI, so he felt pressured into 
taking it. Ive thought carefully about what Mr Cs said, but this is a subjective area  what 
one person perceives as pressure may be different to another. Mr C hasnt provided a 
detailed account of what made him feel pressured and I cant know exactly what would have 
been said during the meeting. So, without more information from Mr C, I havent seen 
enough to say he was pressured into taking the policy.
RBS says it didnt give Mr C any advice, but Mr C says it did. Weve seen a number of 
similar sales by RBS and its my understanding that it didnt usually offer advice. And I 
havent seen anything on the application form to suggest RBS reviewed Mr Cs 
circumstances at the time of sale.  So, I dont think RBS gave Mr C advice and that means it 
didnt have to check the policy was right for him. But RBS did need to give him enough 
information about the PPI, so he could decide whether to take it or not.
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But Mr C doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions. And based on what I know about his 
circumstances, it looks like the policy could have been useful to him. So, I dont think better 
information would have stopped him buying it. I also havent seen anything to suggest the 
policy wasnt affordable for Mr C.
Ive considered that Mr C says he was entitled to six months full sick pay, followed by six 
months half sick pay from his employer and that he would have received redundancy pay if 
he lost his job. But as the policy would have paid out on top of anything he received from his 
employer and Mr C could have claimed again subject to a requalification period, I think Mr C 
still could have found the cover useful if he fell on hard times. 
So, I dont think better information would have changed Mr Cs decision to take the policy. As 
a result, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold, which means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mr C, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C. 
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman