DRN-2841815
The complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI), sold by
Lloyds Bank PLC, in 1998.
What happened
Mrs M says she didnt really need this type of cover because she already enjoyed good
protection from sickness with her then job. She also implies she was required to pay for the
MPPI for quite a few years when it wasnt necessary, because she had subsequently retired. 
Effectively she is saying she overpaid, in this regard.
I issued a provisional decision (PD) about this matter in April 2021 and gave both parties 
until 22 May 2021 to respond with any more information or evidence. Mrs M seems to have 
accepted what I said in my PD. Lloyds hasnt replied.
This final decision should be read in conjunction with my PD. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of (M)PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
As I mentioned in my PD, Lloyds has already paid Mrs M some money in relation to part of 
the commission it received from selling her the MPPI. This left the issue of the merits of the 
complaint: Mrs M still thought the MPPI had been wholly mis-sold in the first place, whereas 
Lloyds disagreed.
I said previously that I didnt think the MPPI had been mis-sold, but I did think that some 
overpayments Mrs M had made on the policy should be returned to her. This was because 
she had reached retirement age and so was paying for an MPPI policy which had effectively 
run its course. The policy didnt cover retirees, so she wouldnt have been able to make a 
successful claim post retirement.
the mis-sale allegation
As I explained before, there was a section about MPPI cover on Mrs M mortgage 
application. There was a tick against a declaration about having MPPI and so this is why
such a policy was added. There was also plenty of evidence of MPPI being confirmed and 
added. For example, Mrs Ms mortgage offer set out the nature of the MPPI and the price.
So, I think Lloyds properly obtained her consent to add the MPPI.
I also think the MPPI was suitable. Mrs M was eligible for the cover and not caught by any 
of the major exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. Her mortgage was secured 
against her home and so the consequences of not being able to make the repayments could 
have been serious. In the event of a successful claim, the MPPI would have paid the 
mortgage for up to 12 months. This would have been in addition to the other means she 
already had in place. 
I therefore dont think recommending MPPI was unreasonable in this case and Mrs M 
appears to have engaged in the sale process and agreed to buy the cover. I dont think the 
MPPI policy was mis-sold.
post-retirement
However, as I noted previously, the MPPI policy would have ceased to pay out upon the 
retirement of the person insured (or when they reached normal retirement age). In her case, 
this would have been March 2005. My understanding from what Ive seen is the MPPI cover 
continued to run alongside Mrs Ms 10-year fixed rate mortgage until 2008.
It doesnt always necessarily follow that we would ask the business to payback the 3 years
worth of premiums post retirement; I do think Mrs M still had a responsibility to manage her
own affairs. But I dont think - in this particular case  that the cut-off point was made clear
enough at the point of sale. I also take account of the 10-year fixed mortgage period and 
also that upon retirement Mrs M does appear to have gone to Lloyds to talk about reducing 
her outgoings and rearranging her finances. She questioned why the MPPI wasnt discussed 
even though her mortgage has ended.
So  whilst I dont agree the policy was mis-sold, I do think Lloyds should pay back the 3 or
so years worth of additional payments it took from Mrs M post-retirement.
  
Putting things right
Lloyds should:
Pay Mrs M the amount she paid each month for the MPPI after March 2005 until 
2008, when the policy closed;
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid the above amounts until 
she gets the payments back. The rate of interest is 8% .
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much 
tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint.
However, I direct Lloyds should pay back the over-payments (post-retirement) as Ive
described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman