DRN-3296504
The complaint
Mr A complains that The Salvation Army General Insurance Corporation Ltd (SAGIC) 
declined a claim made under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A has a home insurance policy underwritten by SAGIC, which covers his homes 
buildings and contents amongst other things.
He made a claim after a plumber hed employed to fit a new shower door identified damage 
to the tiles around the shower. The plumber described the tiles as blown  and when Mr A 
investigated further he found mould growing behind the tiles.
SAGIC declined the claim, pointing out that there appeared to be no actual leaks, for 
example from a damaged pipe, and that the damage to the tiles and the plasterboard behind 
them had occurred over a period of time, possibly due to the way the shower had been 
constructed and/or maintained.
Mr A wasnt happy with this and made a complaint to SAGIC, but they maintained they were 
right to decline the claim, so Mr A brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didnt think SAGIC had done anything wrong. 
Mr A disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. He wants SAGIC to 
settle his claim and pay for the necessary repairs, which will cost around £3,000 - £3,500.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As policy covers damage to any part of his home if thats caused by any one of a number 
of listed events (often called insured perils). The listed events include fire, flood and 
subsidence, for example. The peril thats relevant to Mr As claim is defined as follows:
Escape of water from any fixed water or heating system or domestic appliance.
Mr A also took the option of paying for cover for accidental damage, which is defined as:
Sudden, unintentional and unexpected loss, breakage or damage that can be seen.
Theres a general condition in the policy which requires the policyholder to do all thats 
reasonably possible to protect the property and to prevent, or reduce, damage or loss.
Theres also a general exclusion which says SAGIC will not cover claims for damage caused 
by:
Wear and tear, depreciation or any gradually operating cause
The key questions for me in making this decision are what caused the damage to Mr As 
shower - and whether, therefore, the damage should be covered under the terms of Mr As 
policy.
I dont think the explanations SAGIC provided to Mr A about their decision to decline the 
claim have been very clear. The letter declining the claim and the final response to Mr As 
claim variously say that there is no insured event, that the damage was gradual and that it 
cant be seen (which means its not covered under the accidental damage section of the 
policy).
Mr A can be forgiven for thinking that, if SAGIC are relying on the fact that the damage is 
gradual or cant be seen  i.e. on an exclusion or on the definition of accidental damage  
then they accept that there is an insured event, an escape of water.
In fact, SAGICs position, as theyve explained it to us, is that there is no insured event which 
caused the damage to Mr As shower. So, the questions of whether any exclusions apply or 
whether the claim is covered under the accidental damage section dont logically arise.
Mr A thinks there has been as escape of water (which is an insured event), as defined in the 
policy. And he thinks the exclusion for gradually operating causes shouldnt in all fairness 
apply, because he couldnt possibly have been aware that the damage was occurring behind 
the tiles in his shower. 
I should be very clear that I agree with Mr A that it would be unreasonable for SAGIC to 
decline his claim, as things stand, if (and Ill return to this question later) there has been an 
escape of water (an insured event). 
Our approach is that exclusions for gradually operating causes are perfectly reasonable, but 
that its usually unfair, all else being equal, to decline a claim on that basis if the policyholder 
couldnt reasonably have been aware that the damage was occurring. 
The classic example is where a hidden water pipe (under floorboards or in a cavity) has a 
slow leak, which gradually causes extensive damage, but which couldnt conceivably have 
been apparent to the policyholder until that extensive damage had occurred.
If SAGIC wanted to decline Mr As claim on the basis of the exclusion for gradually operating 
causes, they would have to show that Mr A was  or should have been  aware that the 
damage was happening. They would need to have evidence, for example, that the sealant 
around the shower was clearly missing, deteriorated and/or no longer watertight. 
So, Ill return to the key question here  is it reasonable to say there was an insured event, 
an escape of water, which caused the damage to Mr As plasterboard and tiles? If so, Id be 
asking SAGIC to reconsider their decision to decline Mr As claim.
I dont think theres any absolutely conclusive evidence here. SAGIC didnt send an expert to 
inspect the damage at the time, because they simply accepted Mr As explanation about 
what had caused the problem.
We have a report from the plumber who discovered the damage, but that simply sets out 
what the damage is  its not diagnostic about the cause of the damage.
When Mr A made his claim, he told SAGIC that the plumber had told him the problems were 
due to there being no Wedi board behind the shower tiles. Thats why they didnt feel any 
need to send a loss adjustor to inspect the damage.Wedi is a brand name. Its one of a number of ways in which waterproofing can be added 
behind shower tiles to protect the wall. Some experts prefer other waterproof boarding 
brands. Some think its better to paint the wall with a waterproof sealant before tiling.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr As plumber was saying that there was no waterproofing 
protection behind Mr As shower tiles. 
Mr As property was 13 years old at the relevant time. At the time it was built, some builders 
built showers without waterproofing protection underneath the tiles. Its fair to say that since 
that time, less builders do that, although some still do.
Waterproofing in that way has become more prevalent essentially because most, if not all, 
tiles and grouting are not entirely waterproof. If you build a shower by tiling direct onto the 
wall or plasterboard, there will be a degree of water penetration over time.
Mr A has had the damage inspected by an independent loss assessor. His view is that the 
issue must have arisen because of a leak in the sealant at the foot of the shower. But he 
maintains that the damage to the sealant isnt visible. If it were plainly visible, Mr As claim 
would fail because hed been aware of the problem  or should have been  and hadnt 
taken steps to maintain the shower or prevent the further damage.
Thats a different explanation of the damage to the one Mr A told SAGIC his plumber had 
offered  i.e. that there was no waterproofing behind the tiles.
As I say, theres no absolutely conclusive evidence at this point about how the damage 
occurred. In the absence of any such evidence, I have to decide whats most likely to have 
happened, on the balance of probabilities.
Theres no evidence at all to back the assertion that the damage must have occurred 
because of a failure in the sealant. Its assumed by M As loss assessor  who is also acting 
as his representative in this complaint - that must be the cause because theres no other 
credible explanation.
However, there is an alternative and credible explanation  and Mr As plumbers evidence 
points very clearly to it. In essence, its possible that the shower was built in such a way 
(without waterproofing) which meant that water penetration over time was inevitable. 
And if that was the case, Mr As tiles and plasterboard were, sooner or later, going to suffer 
damage. Put simply, the shower was constructed in such a way that there was built-in 
obsolescence. Thirteen years later, the inevitable has happened and a product constructed 
with a certain shelf-life has come to the end of its time.
Coming back to the policy, its reasonably clear that an insured event is a one-off event or 
series of events which leads to damage or loss. So, for example, a leak from a water pipe is 
an escape of water, as defined in the policy. 
But its not reasonable to suggest that theres an insured event where water penetrates a 
non-waterproof surface, over time, when the policyholder is simply using the apparatus  the 
shower  in the manner intended. 
In that case, theres no one-off failure of the system caused by some unforeseen or 
unexpected event. Its simply that the tiles and grouting are to an extent porous - and that 
will eventually and inevitably affect the surface behind the tiles over a period of time.
Im sorry Mr A has had this problem with his shower. I can understand his frustration and I can see that its caused him a degree of inconvenience and stress. But, as things stand, 
given the evidence currently available, I cant say its unfair or unreasonable of SAGIC to 
decline his claim on the basis that there is no insured event.
In principle, insurance policies will cover damage or loss which occurs as a result of a 
specific, unfortunate event (or events). They arent intended to pay for replacement of things 
have come to the end of their useful life as a result of expected or inevitable deterioration 
over time. 
Of course, if Mr A can provide further evidence to suggest the problem may have been due 
to a specific problem with the sealant (or indeed any other specific insured event)  rather 
than water penetration through the tiles and grouting over time  then Id expect SAGIC to 
take that into account and reconsider Mr As claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman