DRN-2604362
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about their let property insurer Aviva Insurance Limited 
because it has declined a claim they made for storm damage.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C received a call from their tenant on the evening of 1 November 2020. The 
tenant said theyd opened the window slightly (because the weather was bad) to let in a little 
air, when a gust of wind had forced it open too wide and damaged the hinge. An emergency 
repair had to be done, with a full repair following later.
In the meantime Mr and Mrs C notified Aviva of the damage. Aviva said that whilst there had 
been a named storm active at the time of the loss, this hadnt affected the area of 
Mr and Mrs Cs let property. Aviva noted that, without a storm having caused damage, there 
was no cover available on the policy for this damage (Mr and Mrs C didnt have full optional 
accidental damage cover). The claim was declined. 
When Mr and Mrs C complained to our service, our investigator checked the weather data 
for the area of Mr and Mrs Cs let property, and noted there were no storm conditions at the 
time of the loss. He noted there was no other cover available on the policy that might 
respond to this loss. He felt Aviva had acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim. He 
noted Mrs C felt Aviva had been rude to her during calls but didnt feel there was any cause 
to uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs C said they disagreed because there had been a named storm at the time of the 
loss. They noted the investigator had referred to windspeeds of 43 mph (although he had 
said these had occurred the day after the loss), they felt wind this forceful could cause 
damage. They pointed out they have limited accidental damage cover on the policy. Mrs C 
told us that Avivas representative had been dismissive during calls, of her and the 
information shed provided, and shed had to chase her.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for any disappointment this may cause Mr and Mrs C, Im not upholding the 
complaint. I realise that a strong gust of wind damaged their let property, and that the 
country was affected by a named storm at that time  but that doesnt mean that their 
property was damaged by a storm.
Ive reviewed the weather records for the area and note that Mr and Mrs C are very clear 
about the date and time of loss  9pm on Sunday 1 November 2020. The highest windspeed 
recorded on that day in the area of the let property was 36 mph. That is a strong wind, but it 
doesnt equate to a storm. There were stronger winds which might be considered bordering 
on storm force on the following day, with a peak gust occurring at about 9pm (as referenced 
by our investigator). But that was after the damage occurred. 
I see Aviva also considered the location of the property, in case there was likely a localised 
weather event, not accounted for by the weather data recorded at local stations. Aviva didnt 
think it was likely that a storm had occurred locally. Ive seen no evidence which makes me 
think its conclusion in this respect is likely wrong. Knowing that a strong gust of wind 
occurred, such as to force back a window, isnt sufficient to determine that it was a storm.
I cant fault Aviva for declining a storm claim when there were no storm conditions in the 
location of the property at the time of loss. 
I understand Mr and Mrs C have limited accidental damage cover. But this wouldnt offer 
cover for this type of damage. As the schedule shows, this covers services, fixed glass and 
sanitary ware. The glass of the window wasnt damaged by the wind. Full accidental 
damage cover would have been needed for Aviva to give further consideration to the claim.
I appreciate that Mrs C felt Avivas representative was dismissive, but from what Mrs C has 
said I think the representative was just putting across Avivas view that no storm had 
occurred. It would have been better if Mrs C had not had to chase the representative and 
I understand that it was frustrating when the representative seemed to not have considered 
the information provided in what Mrs C perceived to be a timely manner. But I dont think the 
representative was rude or unfairly delayed matters. I think it was always going to be 
frustrating for Mr and Mrs C to learn that Aviva wasnt going to cover the claim, and that this 
remained the case even when Mr and Mrs C challenged that decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman