DRN-3990300
The complaint
Mrs S says that Santander UK Plc let her down and didnt provide enough support when she
started gambling in March 2020.
What happened
Mrs S says she contacted Santander in October 2017 and that blocks were applied to her 
accounts at that time to stop her from gambling.
Mrs S says she began gambling again using her current account in March 2020 and lost a
significant amount of money between March and July 2020. Mrs S complained to Santander
that this shouldnt have happened because there should have been blocks on her account. 
Mrs S also said she thought Santander should have contacted her to offer support when the
spending on her account became significant.
Mrs S also applied and was accepted for a loan with Santander in May 2020.
Santander responded to the complaint and said it didnt think it had done anything wrong as
Mrs S had authorised all the spending on gambling. Mrs S wasnt satisfied with the response 
and referred her complaint to our service.
Mrs S and Santander received initial assessments on the complaint from our service before 
the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent both parties a provisional decision on 3 February 2023 setting out my conclusions on 
the complaint. Whilst Id thoroughly reviewed the initial assessments and both parties 
responses, I didnt set out the detail of those in the decision. I focused on what I considered 
to be the central issues to the complaint Mrs S referred to our service and my reasons for 
the provisional decision Id reached.
Ive summarised my provisional decision below.
My provisional decision
Before I set out my provisional decision, I want to acknowledge that Mrs S has had a very
difficult time over the past few years which has significantly impacted her finances, health
and wellbeing. I was very sorry to learn about this.
The phone call in October 2017
On 27 October 2017 Mrs S spoke to Santander over the phone. She says that during this
call Santander agreed to put blocks on her accounts, which at the time were a current
account and credit card account, to prevent her from gambling. Santander has said that
blocks to prevent Mrs S from gambling were not put in place at that time.
Santander has provided me with a recording of part of that call. The first part of the call isnt
available, but its apparent from listening to the second part of the call that Mrs S initially
spoke to Santanders credit card department. There are no additional written records on
Santanders systems to outline what was discussed with the credit card department. In the 
second part of the call, its evident that Mrs S had been transferred from the credit
card team to the retail banking team, and then to the financial support team to discuss
charges that had recently been applied to her current account. Its clear that in the first part
of the call Mrs S had shared that shed recently stopped working due to poor health and was
going to be out of work for some time due to an operation and treatment. The adviser in the
retail banking team thought that due to her circumstances she could be eligible for financial
support.
When Mrs S was transferred to the financial support team, the adviser asked what had
happened to cause an unpaid direct debit and subsequent charges. Mrs S explained that
receiving the news about her health had been really difficult and following that shed started
gambling. Shed used an e-money provider to send money to online gambling firms and
hadnt realised that the funds werent leaving her current account straight away  and that
this had led to her spending beyond her agreed overdraft limit. In the call Mrs S said that, in
terms of the gambling, this was all sorted now as shed taken steps to prevent further
gambling including cancelling her cards and ensuring she was banned from all gambling
sites. She also confirmed she no longer had the account with the e-money provider. In this
part of the call there was a discussion about support for managing the current account and
the adviser said she was going to look into the outstanding charges and then placed Mrs S
on hold. Santander says the part of the call that took place after the hold is also not
available.
Mrs S has maintained that blocks were applied at her request to her current and credit card
accounts at that time. We asked Santander if there was a record of any blocks being applied
to the accounts. Santander hasnt been as clear as it could have been in its responses to us
about this. However, it has recently confirmed, and provided evidence to show, that a block
was placed on Mrs Ss credit card account on the day of the phone call. Santander has
explained that this was a closed paying balance block, which would prevent further
spending and then enable the outstanding balance to be reduced to nil, and then the
account would automatically close.
There isnt evidence to show that a block was added to Mrs Ss current account at the same
time. Santander has been consistent in explaining that it didnt have the facility to apply
blanket gambling blocks until the start of 2020 and so this wouldnt have been an option at
the time  and to be clear, the block that was applied to the credit card was not a block on
gambling transactions. There isnt a suggestion Mrs S thought a closed paying balance type
block was applied to her current account, but for completeness this wouldnt have been
applicable as she intended to continue to use and maintain her current account.
Santander has recently clarified that, at the time of the call in October 2017, it did have the
facility to apply a complete block on payments to a specific merchant. So, Ive thought about
whether this type of block may have been discussed at the time. Firstly, there isnt evidence
to support that it was, but  even if it had been discussed on parts of the call that arent
available  Mrs S had confirmed that the gambling had been carried out through an e-money
provider (rather than from her current account directly) and that she no longer had the
account with the e-money provider. So, I dont think this specific block type would
necessarily have been beneficial at that time. Mrs S also confirmed in the call, and more
recently to us, that shed banned herself from the gambling sites shed been using, so this
also supports that this type of block wasnt arranged through Santander.
Mrs S has said that there were no gambling transactions on her current account after
October 2017 until March 2020 as she believed there was a block on her account. From
reviewing Mrs Ss account statements, I agree that there werent any significant transactionsto gambling sites until March 2020. But from around August 2018 there were payments each
month to a company Ill call CL, and from around November 2019 there were payments 
made every couple of weeks to a company Ill call CB which seem to be payments to 
gambling or betting companies. If thats correct, this suggests that Mrs S would have been 
aware that there wasnt a block on her current account for gambling transactions at that time 
and ahead of when the more extensive gambling began in March 2020.
Overall, it does seem likely that Mrs Ss discussions with Santander about the problems
shed had with gambling in 2017 led to the block being applied to her credit card account.
However, the evidence Ive reviewed doesnt support that any blocks were applied to her
current account at the same time, or that she was told by Santander that it had been; a
blanket gambling block wasnt available and the blocks that were available werent
applicable in the circumstances.
Gambling activity between March and July 2020
Mrs S has explained that in December 2019 a close family member who she was caring for
very sadly passed away. Mrs S says that the significant impact of their passing, coupled with
the effects of the nationwide lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic led her to gamble
again  after receiving a £20,000 inheritance.
Mrs S says that she started gambling in February 2020 using an account with a different
bank. She says when shed spent the funds in that account, she started using her current
account with Santander. At the time Mrs S had around £10,000 in her Santander current 
account. I can see a further £5,000 was transferred into the account on 2 March 2020 and 
£13,000 on 12 March 2020. Between 8 March 2020 and 27 May 2020, a significant 
proportion of these funds were spent on gambling with one gambling merchant. There were 
also significant winnings of around £80,000 which were credited back to her account but 
were then spent on gambling.
On 20 May 2020 Mrs S applied for, and was granted, a loan for £7,500 from Santander and
the money was transferred into her current account on 28 May 2020. Between 28 May 2020
and 1 July 2020 these funds were spent on gambling, alongside around £30,000 of
subsequent winnings.
Mrs S has said that she doesnt understand why Santander didnt contact her between
March and July 2020 to ask about these transactions and provide support. Shes shared
examples of when Santander has put a stop on non-gambling payments for much lower
amounts. She says the gambling was out of the ordinary given her historic account activity
and Santander should have done more to step in and help.
Santander has said that our service has mischaracterised the complaint, and Mrs Ss initial
complaint was just about the blocks she says were placed on her account in 2017 and that
she didnt raise concerns that the bank hadnt contacted her to prevent the transactions or
provide more support. I asked Santander for a recording of the call where Mrs S formally
raised her complaint, but this hasnt been provided. It did however provide parts of a call  
Mrs S had with Santander on the same day the complaint was raised, on 1 July 2020. In this 
call, Mrs S says at least twice that she couldnt understand why Santander hadnt contacted 
her about her spending. So, I disagree with Santander on this point and consider that Mrs S 
did raise this as a concern and Im satisfied I can fairly consider it as part of this complaint. 
Whilst Santander said it thought this was beyond the original scope of the complaint, it has
still provided information to support why it thinks it acted fairly.
In relation to spending on gambling, Santander has said that it cant monitor all its
customers accounts and spending patterns, and that it would only be able to give guidanceor support to a customer if they contacted the bank. Given the number of customers it has, I
can understand the point Santander makes here. That said, Santander does have a
responsibility, in line with the FCA Principles for Businesses, to pay due regard to the
interests of its customers and treat them fairly. Firms should consider the support they can
offer vulnerable customers if they become aware (or ought to have identified) they were
experiencing difficulties. So, Ive thought about what Santander would have been aware of at
the time.
As Ive already said, Mrs S did let Santander know in 2017 that shed had problems with
gambling; thats evident in the available call recording and I think it most likely led to the
block on her credit card. But from what I have heard in that call, and from what Mrs S has
said, she took steps to ensure that she couldnt continue to gamble, and she was satisfied
with the support in place at that time. There isnt any further record of Mrs S discussing
gambling with Santander until she contacted it on 1 July 2020. There are a couple of
references on Santanders systems to Mrs S as a vulnerable customer between October 
2015 and February 2018 and there are a few occasions where it waived charges as a result,
but I dont think from this alone it would be reasonable to expect Santander to have been
monitoring the account more closely. The action Mrs S took to prevent herself from gambling
did seem to have largely worked in the years that followed.
In terms of Mrs Ss account activity, she did spend a very large amount on gambling
between March and July 2020 and I dont doubt she was struggling with a very serious
addiction to gambling at that time. However, throughout this entire period there were
available funds in the account  including substantial winnings being paid back in  so there
were always sufficient funds to make the payments. The account also had a small,
authorised overdraft, but Mrs Ss spending didnt put the account into its overdraft at any
point. So whilst I acknowledge and appreciate what Mrs S has said about the financial
difficulties the gambling has caused, in the particular circumstances, I dont think the activity
on the account ought to have prompted Santander to assume that Mrs S was struggling
financially and make enquiries.
I would add though, that I dont necessarily agree with Santanders blanket statement that
Mrs Ss account didnt show any signs of financial distress because it didnt enter an
overdraft. I think that factors such as a high gambling- to- income ratio can be a sign of
financial stress, possible loss of control over spending as well as unusual activity on the
account.
Santanders also said that the transactions wouldnt have been flagged on any fraud
systems (like in the examples Mrs S has given of other non-gambling payments being
stopped) as the payments werent fraudulent and were authorised by her. But I do note that
fraud detection often, and reasonably, has some basis in identifying unusual or out of
character transactions. And scam victims will often authorise payments thinking, at the time,
theyre entering into legitimate transactions.
Bearing in mind the obligations on firms to support vulnerable customers, I asked Santander
what processes it had in place at the time in 2020 to support customers with problem
gambling, to see if it followed its own processes. Santander has said that it has taken steps
to make gambling-related support for customers available, including through content on its
website and training for staff. 
It also referred to monitoring systems designed to identify potential problem gambling where 
customers are at risk of financial harm. I asked for more information about this, and 
Santander explained that it reviews data relating to its customers and gambling transactions 
taking into account a number of factors including volume and value of gambling transactions 
and overdraft usage. Its explained that the main focus of this activity is to identify customers utilising their overdraft for a prolonged period and that have other indications of financial 
stress. For these customers a letter would be sent to provide information about more 
support. Having considered this, Mrs S wouldnt have fallen into this category as she was 
spending the available funds in her account and not using her overdraft. So, I havent seen 
anything that makes me think Santander didnt follow its own processes at that time.
Santander has said that if Mrs S had contacted it earlier in 2020 and made it aware that she
was experiencing harm from gambling, it could have provided support by sharing the help
available, including referral to a specialist team who received training to support customers
experiencing harm from gambling - and a gambling block could have been discussed and
highlighted as an option. Mrs S did get in touch with Santander on 1 July 2020 and told the 
bank about the problems she was having. She shared that she was in significant debt due to 
gambling and was really struggling with poor mental health. This contact was following a 
loan repayment debiting her current account, taking it into an overdraft. At the time, she said 
this left her in financial difficulty and without funds for day-to-day expenditure.
Having listened to parts of the call Mrs S had with Santander, I can see it did ask questions
to understand what help and support Mrs S needed at that time. Mrs S confirmed that she
was receiving support from a close family member, and that shed just registered with a
charity providing supporting for gambling addiction. The adviser shared information about
the banks specialist team that could provide additional support and a dedicated contact for
Mrs S. The adviser arranged for the loan repayment to be returned to support her financially
in the short term. The adviser also discussed how the bank could support Mrs S with
repaying the loan. So, I can see Santander did offer some help and support.
That said, Santander has confirmed that a gambling block wasnt discussed or applied.
Santander said this type of block  which was introduced in February 2020  was still being
embedded with staff. However, it had been several months since that time and bearing in
mind Mrs Ss circumstances, I would have expected this to have been discussed as an
option. Particularly as Santander has said to us that if Mrs S had told it about her problem
with gambling earlier it could have offered this as a tool to support.
From looking at Mrs Ss statements she had been spending funds on gambling in the days
before contacting Santander, with multiple transactions on 30 June and one on 1 July (the
day of the call). From her account activity and what she said in the call it was clear that             
Mrs S was only just reaching out for support, and that her problems with gambling werent
resolved. 
Following the call Mrs S gambled two further times, on 2 and 9 July spending £400 in total. 
Santander has said that even if it had made Mrs S aware of the block, its unclear whether 
she would have elected to apply one. Having considered what we do know, I think it most 
likely that she would have elected to apply a block. Its clear that Mrs S had some awareness 
of blocks, whether thats banning herself from sites or from the block on her credit card and 
made clear she thought these were useful. She had also just started to take steps to get help 
and support including from a family member, which I think is persuasive evidence that 
suggests the blocks would have been successful if applied. If a block had been applied this 
would have prevented Mrs S from further financial losses, at a time where she found herself 
in significant debt. To put this right I think Santander should pay Mrs S £400.
The personal loan
Mrs S successfully applied online for a loan of £7,500 with Santander on 20 May 2020. She
says that bearing in mind her significant spending on gambling at that time and her income
of around £500 a month, it should not have been granted.I dont know if Mrs S raised her concerns about the loan when she originally complained to
Santander in July 2020. I havent been provided with a copy of the call to confirm this, but I
know she did reference the loan in another call with Santander on the same day. Mrs S did
raise her concerns about the loan whilst her complaint has been with our service, and
Santander has acknowledged that this now forms part of Mrs Ss complaint, so Ive
considered whether it acted fairly when it granted the loan.
Under the relevant rules (Consumer Credit sourcebook) Santander needed to meet certain
obligations before agreeing to lend. One of the things it needed to do was to carry out
reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that Mrs S could afford to meet the loan
repayments on a sustainable basis. The rules dont say precisely what needs to be checked
but says the information gathered needs to be reasonable and proportionate bearing in mind
the relevant factors which would include, amongst other things, the size and duration of the
loan. So Ive thought about whether the checks Santander carried out were reasonable and
proportionate.
Santander has said that as Mrs S made an online application, her credit file would have
been system checked and the loan accepted if there was no adverse information and the
banks affordability criteria was met. In terms of affordability checks, Santander has said this
would have involved considering Mrs Ss stated income (with evidence) against her stated
outgoings, its own estimates of her outgoings, overall levels of debt and debt-to-income
checks.
Santander says that Mrs S stated in her application that her monthly income was £1,200 a
month and her outgoings were £200. It said it carried out its own assessment of Mrs Ss
outgoings (largely using estimates), which showed she had a disposable income of just over
£500 a month, and so the loan and its monthly payments of £322 were affordable. Having 
considered what Santanders said, Im not satisfied that it carried out reasonable and
proportionate checks before granting the loan.
Mrs S was looking to borrow £7,500 over a 24-month period, with a monthly payment of
£322; so, this was not an insignificant undertaking.
From what Santander has said it appears to have taken what Mrs S told it about her income
at face value without taking steps to verify the information shed given it. While its important
that customers provide accurate information to potential lenders, the rules are specific in
saying it wouldnt generally be sufficient for a lender to rely solely on self-declared income
without independent evidence and so there are obligations on lenders to ensure that the
information theyve been given is accurate.
Mrs S already banked with Santander, and so I think the information needed to verify her
income and outgoings would have been readily available. If Santander had reviewed her
current account statements, it would have seen that her monthly income was much lower
than the £1,200 stated, and in fact ranged between £544 and £750 in the months before the
loan was taken out. Considering Santanders own assessment of Mrs Ss outgoings (£679)
at the time the loan was taken, the loan would clearly have been unaffordable and the
repayments unsustainable. So, I dont think Santander acted fairly in granting the loan.
In terms of putting things right, when we find that a business has done something wrong,
wed normally look to put a customer in the position they would have been in had it not been
for the mistake made. In this case, that would mean putting Mrs S in the position she would
have been in if she hadnt been given the loan.
This isnt always straightforward when a complaint is about unaffordable or irresponsible
lending and where a customer has had use of the money that was lent. In deciding how toput things right in this particular case, Ive had in mind what I consider proportionate checks
would have revealed to Santander about Mrs Ss wider circumstances.
Mrs Ss account statements would have shown a very high amount of daily online
gambling  and that in the few weeks before she applied for the loan, she gambled almost
every single day, and up to almost £4,000 a day on several occasions. This demonstrated
what I consider to be an alarming gambling-to-income ratio and ought to have alerted
Santander to the fact that, in all likelihood, Mrs Ss gambling was out of control, not a
controlled hobby. Santander has shared guidance it had in place for staff in 2020 which set
out examples of signs that could indicate a customer was facing harm from gambling which
included a large number of gambling transactions.
Santander has said throughout the course of this complaint that gambling is a legal activity. I
agree and acknowledge that gambling can be a non-problematic activity for many people.
That said, Santander is also aware that gambling is an activity that many people struggle to
manage and one that has the potential to cause significant financial harm.
I think it is important to make clear at this point, that whilst Ive concluded earlier in my
decision that I didnt consider, in the circumstances, that the bank had an obligation to reach
out to Mrs S to discuss her spend on gambling at the specific times referenced, I do consider
its obligations changed significantly when she applied for the loan.
In agreeing the loan, Santander needed to have regard to information which would indicate
that Mrs S was likely to experience financial difficulties, or that she was vulnerable  it
needed to act responsibly. I dont think that advancing credit to an existing customer who,
from reviewing their account, would have demonstrated they were having significant
problems with gambling is responsible lending. The loan proceeds were not Mrs Ss own
money she would go on to spend; it was money she had to repay to Santander.
Mrs S has struggled to make the loan repayments since the loan was granted and has only
repaid a small amount of the loan since inception. Ive mentioned that Mrs Ss monthly
income ranged between £544 and £750 in the months before the loan was granted. Mrs S
has confirmed that her monthly income remains at just under £600 a month and that after
paying for food and contributing to day- to- day household bills, she has very little disposable
income. This leads me to conclude that theres little prospect of Mrs S repaying the
outstanding amount and requiring her to do so would cause undue financial hardship. Mrs S
has also shared that shes still struggling with and receiving support for her mental health,
which was been significantly impacted by gambling and subsequent financial difficulties.
From what Ive seen, Mrs S was in the throes of a significant gambling addiction, and I think
it would have been reasonably foreseeable that the loan Santander granted would be spent
entirely on gambling. Santander facilitated this spending and resulting debt, and it led to a
serious impact on Mrs Ss financial and mental wellbeing. Santander granted a loan to Mrs S
that she lost entirely to gambling and didnt have the ability to repay on a sustainable basis,
and still doesnt. Given the particular circumstances of this complaint and what I understand
to be Mrs Ss current financial position, I think that the fair and reasonable thing for
Santander to do would be to write off the entire outstanding balance remaining on the loan.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive outlined, Im currently minded to tell Santander to:
Pay Mrs S £400, along with 8% interest on the transactions from the date made to 
the date refunded;
Write off the outstanding balance on Mrs Ss loan;Refund all the repayments Mrs S has made towards the loan to date, along with 8% 
interest on each payment amount from the date it was made to the date it is 
refunded; and
Remove any adverse information relating to the loan from Mrs Ss credit file and 
reflect that the loan has been written off.
Santander responded to say it accepted my provisional decision and had no further 
comments to make. Mrs S raised some further points for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered Mrs Ss comments since my provisional decision, my overall 
conclusions on the complaint remain the same. Ive summarised my response to Mrs Ss 
further points below.
The phone call in October 2017
Mrs S has said that its concerning that Santander cant provide a recording of the full phone 
call from 27 October 2017 or notes from the time to reflect the conversation. Shes asked 
how I can make a decision with incomplete information. 
I can completely understand Mrs Ss frustration that the full recording isnt available. In the 
absence of that information, Ive had to make a decision based on the information that I do 
have. Whilst I dont have the full call, I have a partial recording which suggests Mrs S had 
contacted the gambling retailers to prevent further activity. I investigated what blocks 
Santander was able to put in place, and there isnt evidence to support that Santander 
offered specific blocks on gambling transactions at the time.  
Mrs S has said that her credit card account has had a nil balance for two years, but is still 
active, contrary to how Santander has said the closing paying balance block should work. 
Mrs S has said this supports that this wasnt the type of block added at the time, and rather, 
a block on gambling transactions was added to her account. I asked Santander about this, 
and it explained that the reason the account has stayed open is because the balance was 
overpaid by a small amount. As the account was in credit it wasn't closed automatically. 
Santander has said that Mrs S has been asked about closing the account and shes said she 
wanted to keep it open while the complaint with our service was ongoing. And Mrs S had told 
us that too.  
Mrs S has also said that the payments to CL and CB were authorised by chip and PIN rather 
than made online. Shes said because of this, these transactions wouldnt have alerted her 
to the fact that there wasnt a block on her current account for online gambling transactions, 
when she thought there was. 
I accept what Mrs S has said here about the transactions to CL and CB. However, this 
doesnt change my overall conclusions. Im satisfied for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision that its most likely a gambling block wasnt discussed or added to Mrs Ss current 
account in October 2017. 
Gambling activity between March and July 2020
Mrs S still considers Santander should have stepped in earlier and offered support after she 
started spending a large amount on gambling in March 2020. In my provisional decision I said that Mrs Ss current account had a small, authorised overdraft at the time of the high 
spending on gambling, but that the spending didnt put the account into its overdraft at any 
point. In response, Mrs S said that the current account didnt have an authorised overdraft at 
that time. I asked Santander about this, and it confirmed that Mrs S didnt have an 
authorised overdraft at the time. I appreciate the clarification the parties have provided on 
that point; however, it doesnt impact the overall conclusions Ive reached. That's because 
during the period of spending, there were always sufficient funds to make the gambling 
payments. Overall, I concluded that in the specific circumstances, I didn't think the activity on 
the account was enough to say Santander should have made further enquiries.
Mrs S asked for further clarification about why Id said Santander should refund £400 of 
gambling transactions. I said that when Mrs S let Santander know in July 2020 that she was 
struggling with gambling, it should have explained that gambling blocks were available. I 
thought if it had, Mrs S would have likely agreed for blocks to be applied and this would have 
prevented £400 of further gambling losses. 
The personal loan
Mrs S said she appreciated that Id provisionally concluded that the loan should be written 
off, but that she felt compensation for the distress shed experienced and the impact on her 
mental wellbeing was due. She mentioned that she still had some outstanding debt and that 
this matter has been with our Service for some time. 
I appreciate that Mrs S does still have considerable debt outstanding with other parties that 
shes still having to manage and that this will be impacting on her. In my decision Ive only 
looked at the actions of Santander and where I think it acted unfairly, how it should put 
things right. In my provisional decision I explained that I thought it would have been 
reasonably foreseeable to Santander that the loan it granted would be spent entirely on 
gambling, that Santander facilitated this spending and resulting debt, and that this had led to 
a serious impact on Mrs S. I considered what Mrs S had said about the impact of this on her 
financial and mental wellbeing when deciding how to fairly resolve this complaint. Having 
done this, I considered that Santander writing off the entire loan balance represented fair 
compensation in this case. 
Any concerns about our Services handling of the complaint would need to be considered 
separately.
I appreciate that Mrs S has been significantly impacted by the problems shes experienced 
with gambling and that this matter has been ongoing for several years. I hope that to some 
extent, this decision brings some closure to the matter for her.
Putting things right
To put things right Santander should:
Pay Mrs S £400, along with 8% interest on the transactions from the date made to 
the date refunded;
Write off the outstanding balance on Mrs Ss loan;
Refund all the repayments Mrs S has made towards the loan to date, along with 8% 
interest on each payment amount from the date it was made to the date it is 
refunded; and
Remove any adverse information relating to the loan from Mrs Ss credit file and 
reflect that the loan has been written off.My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Santander UK Plc should put things right as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Lauren Long
Ombudsman