DRN-1908501
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service he received from Lloyds Bank PLC after he lost his debit 
card.
What happened
Mr H has a current account with Lloyds that comes with a debit card. 
On 25 July 2019, Mr H called Lloyds to report that hed lost his debit card. Mr H was abroad 
at the time. Lloyds cancelled the debit card and ordered a new one.
Mr H then asked Lloyds if he could transfer some money from his current account to a 
friends account  so that he could gain access to some funds. Lloyds was unable to make 
this transfer for Mr H. It explained this was because he had not made a payment to that 
payee before, meaning certain security information would be required. But as Mr H was not 
registered for particular account services, it wouldnt be able to obtain this.
After Mr H returned from his trip he complained to Lloyds. He said it hadnt done enough to 
help him and had left him feeling abandoned. He said hed had no access to funds, including 
on his immediate return from abroad and that this had caused him significant inconvenience. 
He was also unhappy that Lloyds didnt have a branch in the country he was in at the time 
the card was lost  as he understood from looking online that it did.
Lloyds didnt think it had made a mistake. It said it had correctly cancelled the debit card 
when it was informed it was lost. And it thought it hadnt made an error by declining to 
authorise the payment to a third party  as the relevant security information could not be 
provided. Unhappy with this response Mr H asked our service to look into the complaint. 
One of our investigator considered everything but didnt feel Lloyds had done anything 
wrong. He felt Lloyds had acted correctly in cancelling the card. He also didnt think it had 
acted unreasonably by declining the request for the transfer and he couldnt find any 
evidence that Lloyds had provided misleading information to Mr H.
Mr H did not agree with the investigators opinion so asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. As a result, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is unfortunate that Mr H lost his debit card while he was abroad. But Lloyds wasnt 
responsible for this. When Mr H called Lloyds and reported the card as lost it correctly 
cancelled the card to protect Mr Hs account from misuse. I think it acted fairly in doing this.
Mr H says Lloyds didnt then do enough to help him. While I understand that Mr H was in a 
difficult situation and Id expect Lloyds to do what it could to assist, it was limited in what it 
could do  particularly as he was overseas. And again, Id reiterate it hadnt done anything 
that had caused the situation. 
While Id expect Lloyds to have done what it could to help, I dont think this means it has to 
disregard its security processes. Ive listened to the call between Lloyds and Mr H in which 
he asked to transfer money to a friend. He confirmed that he hadnt paid money to that 
person before. Lloyds has provided information to show that its process, when a payment is 
requested to a new payee, is to require specific security information. But it says, and has 
shown, that Mr H was not registered for the account service that wouldve provided access 
to that required information. So, in the circumstances, I dont think Lloyds was incorrect to 
decline to process the transfer.
When it was unable to process this request, I think it wouldve been reasonable for Lloyds to 
think about what else it could do to help Mr H. And from listening to the call I think the 
representative did this. They asked Mr H if there was anyone else he could transfer money 
to instead, someone who he had paid previously, so that he could access funds, as 
transferring funds to an existing payee didnt require the same security information. But Mr H 
confirmed there wasnt. 
The representative also offered to transfer his call to a department that could potentially 
assist him by getting access to emergency cash. Mr H agreed to this and the call recording 
indicates he was transferred. Lloyds has explained that the emergency cash service is 
provided by the card issuer rather than itself and it has no records of the discussion that then 
took place. I dont know what subsequently happened when Mr H spoke to the card provider. 
But I think Lloyds did what Id have expected it to do by referring Mr H to the most 
appropriate source of potential help.
So overall, I think Lloyds did what it could to assist Mr H and has acted reasonably. 
Mr H has said while he was abroad, he travelled to a location where he thought there was a 
Lloyds branch, but there wasnt one there. I havent seen anything to indicate that Lloyds 
said or indicated to Mr H that it had a branch in that location, and he appears to have gotten 
this information from a third-party website. Lloyds isnt responsible for the accuracy of 
information provided by third parties. So, I cant reasonably say it misled Mr H.
 
I can see from everything Mr H has written that he feels very strongly about what has 
happened. And I have sympathy for the position he found himself in. But for the reasons Ive 
explained I dont think this was caused by an error by Lloyds or that it did anything wrong 
after he notified it his card was lost. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman