DRN-1590184
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that Capital One (Europe) plc wont refund disputed cash withdrawals made 
from his account.
What happened
Mr A says that fraudulent cash machine withdrawals totalling £464 were made from his 
Capital One credit card between 1 May 2019 and 6 May 2019.
The withdrawals took place in Odessa, Ukraine. Mr A explains that at the time of the 
disputed withdrawals he was in Ukraine but in a different city over five hours away by car. 
Mr A says that he didnt use his card whilst in Ukraine, and only took it for emergencies. On 
reviewing his credit card statement on the 18 May 2019 he noticed the withdrawals and 
contacted Capital One to notify them  at the same time he realised his card was missing. 
Mr A says he kept a note of his PIN on his phone, in the form of a phone number, and he 
also wrote it on the back of his card in invisible ink. He believes a fraudster could have 
obtained his PIN from one of these two routes. 
Mr As also unhappy with the service Capital One provided when he raised the disputed 
withdrawals  in particular he had to speak to a number of different members of staff 
regarding his situation. 
Capital One investigated and partially upheld Mr As complaint. They decided not to refund 
the disputed withdrawals, but accepted the service theyd provided wasnt satisfactory. 
Capital One offered Mr A £30 in compensation in recognition of this. But they said there was 
no evidence of fraudulent activity. And thought Mr A had carried out or authorised the 
disputed withdrawals because:
The transactions dont follow a normal fraudsters pattern.
A fraudster obtaining the PIN via Mr As phone is implausible.
Mr A logged onto online banking on two occasions before reporting the fraud  why 
didnt he raise the transactions sooner?
 
As Mr A didnt agree with Capital Ones decision he asked us to investigate. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr As complaint and didnt think Capital One needed to 
do anymore. In summary he felt unable to conclude the withdrawals had been made 
fraudulently, and thought they were most likely made or authorised by Mr A. 
Mr A didnt accept our investigators opinion. In summary he said:
The PIN could have been obtained through internet storage services  not just from a 
contact number on his phone.Or possibly they obtained his card, planned on using it for transactions that didnt 
require the PIN but then saw the PIN written on the back via ultraviolet light. 
Why didnt the bank block the transactions, considering hed never used his card 
outside of the United Kingdom (UK)?
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. 
Generally, Capital One can hold Mr A liable for the disputed withdrawals if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr As genuine card and PIN were used 
to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, 
on its own, enough to enable Capital One to hold him liable. So I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr A consented to the 
withdrawals being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Capital One to conclude that Mr A 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
The disputed withdrawals were made using Mr As card and PIN. But theres no 
plausible explanation for how Mr As PIN was obtained. Mr A accepts that during his 
time in Ukraine he didnt use his credit card, leaving no opportunities for shoulder 
surfing. Mr As explained that he recorded his PIN disguised as the last 4 digits of a 
phone number  but for a fraudster to obtain this information theyd need to have got 
hold of Mr As phone, accessed the contact details, established which one had the 
PIN included and identified it was the last four digits. Mr As also explained he didnt 
lose his phone at the time. I dont find this explanation plausible. Mr A also says he 
wrote down his PIN in invisible ink on the back of his card  but again I think a 
fraudster obtaining the PIN in this way seems unlikely. Either theyd needed access 
to an ultraviolent light, or at the time of obtaining his card been in a location where 
there was ultraviolent light. Mr A also said that his PIN could have been obtained via 
the internet. Ive thought about Mr As suggestion, but Ive not seen any evidence that 
Mr As PIN was stored on internet storage services or an explanation for how a 
fraudster could gain access to this.
Mr A says he was in Ukraine at the time of the withdrawals but explains he wasnt in 
Odessa. Our investigator asked him to provide evidence of where he was staying in 
Ukraine when the disputed withdrawals occurred, but Mr As been unable to do so. 
Ive seen evidence from Capital One that Mr A logged into his mobile banking  and 
viewed his transactions  on the 11 May 2019 and the 17 May 2019. But he didnt 
report the disputed withdrawals until the 18 May 2019. I find it unusual that Mr A 
wouldnt report these fraudulent transactions sooner. 
It seems unusual that a fraudster wouldnt try to take the full available balance from 
Mr As account between the 1 May 2019 and the 6 May 2019. Instead the fraudster 
carried out two withdrawals on the 1 May 2019, but then didnt use the card again 
until the 6 May 2019. 
 In response to our investigators view, Mr A also asked why Capital One didnt block the 
transactions considering hed never used his card outside of the UK. Capital One have 
explained that it isnt unusual for their cards to be used abroad, and once attempts were 
made to exceed the withdrawal limit on the 6 May 2019 Mr As card was blocked. Ive 
thought about what Mr A's said, but I don't agree that using a credit card outside of the UK 
should necessarily have led to the bank blocking his card. And I'm satisfied Capital One did 
take action to block Mr A's card on the 6 May 2019 - after attempts were made to exceed the 
daily withdrawal limit. Even if I did think Capital One should have restricted Mr As card  
because it was used outside of the UK  for me to conclude that Capital One should be held 
liable I need to think on balance that Mr A didnt authorise or carry out the transactions. And 
for the reasons Ive explained above I think its more likely than not Mr A authorised the 
disputed withdrawals. It follows that Capital One is entitled to hold him liable for them.
I've reviewed the service Capital One provided when Mr A raised his disputed withdrawal 
claim. And although I agree the service they provided wasn't satisfactory, I think the £30 
compensation paid by Capital One in recognition of this was fair and reasonable. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2020.
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman