DRN-2704715
The complaint
Mr H complains that Finance Giant Ltd (FGL) has not refunded the fee he paid to arrange a
hire purchase deal.
What happened
Mr H took a car on hire purchase from a finance company, O. He was introduced to O by
FGL, and he paid FGL a brokers fee of £299.
Mr H complained that the car was faulty. An inspection showed that to be correct and O
accepted Mr Hs rejection of the car. O did not initially refund the £1,000 deposit Mr H had 
paid and he referred that issue to this service. Following this services recommendation, Mr 
H did receive the refund.
Mr H says however that he remains out of pocket because of the fee he paid to FGL. He 
says that he has not had the benefit he expected, because the hire purchase deal had to be
ended within a matter of weeks. He thinks too that FGL should have helped him recover the
£1,000 from O.
Mr H referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered the case. He
recommended that FGL refund the fee of £299. FGL didnt respond  either to challenge the
investigators findings or to make a payment in line with his recommendations  and so the
case was passed to me.
Because I was likely to reach a different conclusion from that reached by our investigator, I 
issued a provisional decision. In that decision I said: 
As the investigator noted, FGL has not engaged in any meaningful way with our 
process; in particular, it has not responded to the investigators view. The Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Handbook includes rules about how financial businesses should 
deal with complaints, which include at DISP 1.4.4: 
Where a complaint against a respondent is referred to the Financial Ombudsman
Service, the respondent must cooperate fully with the Financial Ombudsman Service
and comply promptly with any settlements or awards made by it.
On the face of it, therefore, it does not appear that FGL has complied with that rule.
That is not, however, a reason to require FGL to refund the fee that Mr H paid it. In
determining Mr Hs complaint, I must consider all the circumstances; Im not limited to
considering evidence or arguments that have been submitted by the parties. Nor should 
I require FGL to make a refund simply because it hasnt responded to the investigators
recommendation.
The investigator noted that the payment he made to FGL was non-refundable. FGLs 
role as credit broker was to try to find a lender that was willing to provide finance to Mr 
H. It did that and, by doing so, I believe it provided the service that Mr H agreed to pay 
for. I havent seen anything to indicate that FGL guaranteed that any finance agreement 
would run its course or that Mr H would be entitled to a refund of its fee if the car was 
not of satisfactory quality. I dont believe either that FGL was under any obligation to 
help Mr H recover his deposit from O; that would be an unusual arrangement.
I understand of course that Mr H feels he has nothing to show for his payment, because 
he returned the car and the finance agreement was unwound. But FGL did what it 
agreed to do  and no doubt carried out the same amount of work as it would have 
done if the hire purchase agreement had run its course. In my view Mr H has received 
the service he paid for from FGL and I dont believe there are grounds for a refund.
FGL did not respond to my provisional decision. Mr H acknowledged receipt but had nothing 
to add.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the circumstances, I dont believe there is any reason to reach a different conclusion from 
that set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Finance Giant Limited to do anything more to resolve 
Mr Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman