DRN-3857298
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain about Amtrust Europe Limiteds handling of a claim they made on a 
legal expenses insurance policy.
Amtrust outsources the administration of claims and complaint handling on this policy. 
Where I refer to Amtrust in this decision, this includes the representative acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F hold a home insurance policy which includes legal expenses insurance 
provided by Amtrust.
They contacted Amtrust because of damage to their property which occurred when a 
contractor did work on a neighbouring property. Theyd been told removing paint left by the 
contractor on their property would cost £500. The contractor hadnt responded to requests to 
remove it.
Mr and Mrs F wanted to take legal action to rectify the damage. After assessing the claim, 
Amtrust declined to provide cover. They said that while it was likely legal proceedings would 
be successful, the likely costs of those proceedings werent proportionate.
Mr and Mrs F complained to Amtrust and then our service when it rejected their complaint. 
Our investigator thought Amtrust had acted fairly. Mr and Mrs F disagreed, and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant condition of Mr and Mrs Fs policy says:
We will only pay advisers costs that are proportionate to the amount of damages that you 
are claiming in the legal action. Advisers costs in excess of the amount of damages that you 
are able to claim from your opponent will not be covered.
Such a condition is common in policies like Mr and Mrs Fs, and not inherently unfair or 
unreasonable. It wouldnt be reasonable to ask an insurer to fund, at significant cost, legal 
proceedings where the amounts being sought from the other party are less than the costs 
incurred to bring those proceedings.
Mr and Mrs F say they believe that a letter from a legal professional to the contractor would 
be sufficient to make them carry out the rectification work. They also believe this would cost 
less than £500.
I cant agree with this suggestion. If such a letter were sent, it seems logical to say that it 
would need to threaten the contractor with legal proceedings in order to have any effect. If 
the contractor didnt respond, or refused liability for the damage, then the question would be 
what action Mr and Mrs F, Amtrust, and the solicitors who issues the letter would take. I think 
its unreasonable to ask Amtrust to fund a letter which would threaten legal proceedings 
which it knows it wouldnt subsequently fund.
It doesnt seem to be disputed that taking legal proceedings against the contractor would 
cost more than £500, or that this is the likely maximum award a court would make if the 
matter went that far. Amtrust has offered to reimburse Mr and Mrs F the fees they would pay 
to take the contractor to small claims court. It says those costs would be proportionate and 
something they would cover. I think thats fair. It suggests Amtrust are willing to fund the 
claim on a proportionate basis, which is what its required to do by the terms and conditions 
of the policy.
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs F werent happy with the way the claim was handled. They 
think that Amtrust was seeking to obstruct and dissuade them from claiming. I havent seen 
any evidence of this. Im satisfied it made reasonable requests for information from Mr and 
Mrs F, made reasonable enquiries into the level of cover and didnt unnecessarily delay the 
claim at any point. Im also satisfied its decision that it wouldnt fund legal proceedings, but 
would reimburse the court and application fees for the small claims court is fair.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint. Im satisfied Amtrust Europe Limited has 
acted fairly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman