DRN-2505596
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs T complained that they were mis-sold a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy by Bradford & Bingley plc (Bradford & Bingley).
What happened
Mr T and Mrs T took out the PPI when they applied for a mortgage with Bradford & Bingley 
in October 1992. They couldnt remember much about how the policy was sold. Bradford & 
Bingley said that Mr T and Mrs T applied for the mortgage and PPI during a meeting in one 
of its branches, but that it had not offered advice about whether they should take the cover. 
Mr T and Mrs T said that the PPI wasnt explained to them, and they werent given a choice 
about whether to take it. They also said that they didnt need the policy as Mr T had good 
employee benefits. 
The policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr T at a monthly cost 
of £18.00. The monthly benefit was £300.00. If Mr T had made a successful claim, the policy 
couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim. Mrs T was not working at the time of the 
sale so was not eligible for the cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr T and Mrs T disagreed, and 
asked that it be referred to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr T and Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr T and Mrs Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Bradford & Bingley sent in copies of the mortgage application form and mortgage offer from 
1992. As the sale took place in a meeting, I cant know how the salesperson explained the 
PPI. But I can see from the mortgage application that theres a section headed payment 
protection insurance, which shows answers to eligibility questions, the level of cover chosen 
(Mr T couldve had a policy that covered accident and sickness only) and the amount of 
benefit required. And theres a question at the top of this section of the form that asks 
whether the applicants want to take PPI  this is marked yes, but could have been marked 
no if the PPI wasnt required.
From whats on the form I think its likely that there was some discussion about the PPI, so 
as to be able to complete the answers to the various questions. And theres nothing to 
suggest that Mr T and Mrs T had to take the PPI. So overall, I think Mr T and Mrs T were 
aware of the PPI and chose to take it  I think they probably just dont remember doing so as 
it was all so long ago. 
Im satisfied Bradford & Bingley didnt advise Mr T and Mrs T to take out the PPI, so it didnt 
need to make sure the policy was suitable for Mr T (the insured). But it should still have 
given them enough information for them to make an informed choice.
As Ive said, I cant know how the salesperson explained the PPI - especially the things not 
covered. But I cant see that Mr T (as the insured) wouldve been affected by any of these. 
Mr T and Mrs T told us that Mr T wouldve been entitled to sick pay from his employer of 12 
months pay, but I dont know whether this would all have been at Mr Ts full pay rate. They 
didnt mention having had any savings they could have relied on. So I think Mr T and Mrs T 
couldve found it difficult to meet the mortgage payments if Mr Ts sick pay wasnt all at his 
full pay rate or if he lost his job. And in any case, I think Mr T and Mrs T could reasonably 
have wanted to protect an important commitment that was secured on their home, especially 
as Mr T was the only income earner. Ive also kept in mind that the policy couldve paid out 
for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim.
Its not clear how the cost of the PPI was explained to Mr T and Mrs T, although Bradford 
and Bingley sent in an explanatory leaflet from the time of the sale, which showed example 
costs for different benefit levels. So I think its likely that Mr T and Mrs T had some idea how 
much the cost would be when they applied for the mortgage and PPI. And I can see that the 
cost was then set out on the mortgage offer.
On balance, although I cant know whether Bradford & Bingley clearly explained all of the 
policy details, I think Mr T and Mrs T would still have bought the policy if it had. It couldve 
provided useful protection if Mr T couldnt work. This means I dont think the PPI was mis-
sold.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr T and Mrs Ts complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman