DRN-2861080
The complaint
Mr S complains that OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED trading as Likely Loan  were 
irresponsible in approving a fixed sum loan agreement that he couldnt afford. 
When I refer to what Mr S has said, and Likely Loan have said, it should also be taken to 
include things said on their behalf.
What happened
In October 2016 Mr S took out a loan from Likely Loan for £4,000, which was to be used for 
a holiday. The total repayable under the agreement was around £6,374. Mr S was required 
to make 30 monthly repayments of around £212.
In April 2018 Mr Ss loan defaulted, and Mr S said he raised a complaint with Likely Loan in 
January 2020. He said he thought the loan was mis-sold to him because Likely Loan never 
considered his complete borrowing status, only his ability to meet repayments based on a 
verbal, unverified by them, income figure. He said at the time he had a high dependency on 
lending and was in clear financial difficulty and was also taking out further credit with other 
providers. He said his outgoings often exceeded his monthly income, he had arrears on 
other accounts, and he felt that Likely Loan didnt carry our appropriate checks to see if he 
was able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. So, he felt that the lending was not suitable 
or sustainable.
In March 2020, Likely Loan wrote to Mr S and said that at the point of application, they 
undertook proportionate affordability and credit worthiness assessments. They said this 
assessment took into consideration numerous factors, including a review of his credit report 
and information provided by him at the time of application. They said they used automated 
decision making as part of their loan assessment process, and that their internal scorecard 
took the data provided by Mr S combined with information from the credit reference 
agencies. The information from the credit reference agencies included details on how he 
managed his accounts, the balances outstanding and whether payments were being made 
on time or not. From that information they said an automated decision was taken on whether 
to lend to him or not.
In this correspondence they said that at the time of the application Mr S informed them that 
he was employed with an annual gross income of £36,000, and declared his residential 
status as living with parents. Likely Loan said they undertook a credit check at the point of 
application. And they said the checks they undertook indicated that Mr S had enough 
disposable income to make the repayment of the loan affordable. They said that the 
information from the credit reference agency showed that Mr S had no defaults or CCJs, and 
his previous loans had all been successfully settled. They said there was only one credit 
agreement which started just before the loan in question, and this was not yet reporting to 
the credit reference agency. So overall, they didnt think that the loan was approved 
irresponsibly.
Mr S was unhappy with this, so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigator. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to
assure both parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on 
something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I 
think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
Amongst other things, I have considered the rules and guidance for lenders set out in the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
When looking at this type of a complaint I need to consider two main questions, in order to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
The first question is:
1. Did Likely Loan complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves 
that Mr S would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a. If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did Likely Loan 
make a fair lending decision bearing in mind the information gathered and 
what they knew about Mr Ss circumstances?
b. If reasonable and proportionate checks were not completed, would such 
checks have shown that Mr S would be able to sustainably repay the 
borrowing?
The second question is:
2. Did Likely Loan act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I think Mr S has been disadvantaged in any way by Likely Loans actions, then I will 
consider what is a fair way to put things right.
Did Likely Loan complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves that Mr 
S would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
Likely Loan were required to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to assess Mr 
Ss ability to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way. These, sometimes called affordability 
checks, need to be borrower-focussed (considering Mr Ss specific circumstances) and, in 
addition to the creditworthiness assessment, to see if he could have afforded to repay the 
borrowing in a sustainable manner. So, Likely Loan needed to consider the impact of any 
credit payments on Mr S, and not just the likelihood of getting their money back.There is no set list of checks Likely Loan needed to complete. But the checks should have 
been proportionate to the circumstances, and what is reasonable and proportionate will vary 
depending on a number of factors such as, but not limited to the:
- Amount of credit;
- Duration (or likely duration) of the credit;
- Frequency of the repayments;
- Amounts of repayments;
- Total amount payable;
- Total charge for credit; and
- Consumers individual circumstances, including their lending history.
The list above is not exhaustive, and what is considered proportionate may vary as any of 
the above factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and proportionate check 
ought to be.
Likely Loan said they no longer have a physical credit report from the time of application as 
they extract data from a credit reference agency, and they have provided their credit risk 
data and their overview of it. Also, they have provided our service with the results of the 
credit file search they completed in March 2020. They said these credit file results show six 
years worth of data, and they used this when looking at this to cross-reference their 
extracted data to confirm they have obtained the correct information. 
From reviewing this information, Likely Loan said it completed proportionate checks at the 
time of lending. They said that Mr S declared that he had an annual gross income of 
£36,000, living with parents, and that his credit file showed that, at the time of lending, he 
was meeting his commitments on all active accounts, and was making his payments as 
expected. They said that the data extracted from the credit reference agency at the time of 
the application showed that Mr S had a total debt of around £2,400. They said that Mr S, 
after taking out the loan, would still be left with a disposable income of around £1,740, when 
taking into account that his monthly credit repayments were around £350, and his new loan 
was around £212 a month. 
From the copies of credit files that I have been provided I can see that Mr S didnt have any 
significant credit commitments. His credit commitments were limited to a current account, a 
mobile phone contract, a credit card and two personal loans with a combined total owed of 
less than £3,000. These had a combined monthly repayment of approximately £400 and 
they were all managed well with no adverse information recorded on the credit file. So, Mr S 
had a monthly disposable income of around £1,904 with which to cover the Likely Loan 
repayments (approximately £212) and other general living expenses. Considering he was 
living at home with his parents, its unlikely his general living costs would have been 
significant. There was also nothing to suggest Mr Ss stated salary might be incorrect or 
inflated.
Based on the above and considering the circumstances of this case, I dont think Likely Loan 
have acted unreasonably in not verifying his income. But I do think that they shouldve taken 
into consideration Mr Ss other commitments and expenditures such as day to day living 
expenses. Outside of Mr Ss credit commitments, they didnt know what other committed 
expenditure Mr S had at the time. It is possible that even someone who lives at home with 
their parents may still have other regular commitments such as rent, food or petrol. So 
overall, I think it would have been reasonable and proportionate to have taken this into 
consideration too.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr S could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?As Ive concluded that Likely Loan didnt carry out reasonable and proportionate checks, I 
will now consider whether their lending decision likely ought to have been any different if 
proportionate checks had been carried out.
I cant be certain what evidence, information or what questions Likely Loan would have 
asked and reviewed had they looked into Mr Ss other commitments. Mr S has provided us 
with his bank statements from the time of the loan application so I have reviewed these to 
see what other commitments he had at the time. Im not suggesting that Likely Loan 
shouldve asked for bank statements from him, as there isnt anything that would lead me to 
think that this was necessary based on what I covered above, but I think the statements are 
a good indicator of what they wouldve found out had they asked Mr S about his other 
expenditures. 
So had Likely Loan asked Mr S about his expenses at the time, they most likely would have 
found out that his insurance was around £75 per month, and that he had a monthly expense 
of £17 to a telecom company. And he was spending about £165 in petrol per month. In the 
absence of anything else, I think most likely this is the information Mr S wouldve shared with 
Likely Loan about his expenditure, had they completed reasonable and proportionate checks 
at the time of borrowing. So Likely Loan would have seen that Mr S was left with around 
£1,647 in disposable income each month. And I think this would have been more than 
sufficient to cover the costs of other living expenses such as food, clothing as well as the 
monthly repayments to Likely Loan. Considering all the above I dont think Likely Loan have 
acted unfairly in lending to Mr S. I say this because I think reasonable and proportionate 
checks would have still likely shown that the loan was affordable to him.
Did Likely Loan act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive not been presented with anything persuasive to make me think it is more likely than not 
that Likely Loan acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some other way.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman