DRN-2818879
The complaint
Ms As complaint is about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to cancel her car insurance 
policy.
What happened
In February 2021, Ms A purchased a car insurance policy with AXA.
AXA carried out a check on the Claims Underwriting Exchange and found a claim 
which Ms A hadnt declared on her application. AXA asked Ms A to update her policy 
with the claim details.
Ms As policy wasnt updated by the deadline AXA set, so it cancelled her policy. 
Ms A wasnt happy about this and complained to AXA. She said shed updated her 
policy online and followed AXAs instructions. So she said it must have been an IT 
issue which caused the error.
AXA said it had looked into the matter but couldnt find any evidence of a system 
error. It said it could see Ms A had accessed her policy online, but the data showed 
that the claim hadnt been added. AXA offered to provide Ms A with a new policy with 
the claim added as a gesture of goodwill.
Ms A didnt agree and brought her complaint to us. She wanted compensation for the 
experience and to be reimbursed for the time she took off work to get new insurance.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint shouldnt be upheld 
because they found AXA had shown there was no system error. So they were 
satisfied Ms A hadnt added the claim to the policy and it was cancelled fairly.
Ms A doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms A says that it was an internet error which caused her claim to not be updated on 
her policy. But in order to uphold this complaint, Id need to see firm evidence that it 
was AXAs mistake or a system error which caused the issue here. I say this 
because the onus in this situation fell on Ms A to check that the policy had been 
updated correctly and ahead of the deadline provided by AXA.
Ive seen a copy of the notice of cancellation letter which AXA sent to Ms A. The 
letter explains that Entering the claims information incorrectly will mean your policy 
is invalid, and will still be cancelled on the date given in this letter. And it goes on to 
provide a step-by-step process on updating the claim, including saying any 
additional premium to pay will now be displayed on screen. So Im satisfied AXA 
gave Ms A clear information on how to update her policy online.
AXA has provided evidence which shows Ms A logged into her online portal on        
10 March 2021, and this matches with Ms As testimony. But AXAs data shows that    
Ms A didnt get as far as seeing the page which shows the increased premium, and 
which would have been shown if she had updated the claim details. So it appears the 
claim wasnt updated correctly. 
AXA has also provided evidence to show there were no system issues affecting the 
online portal around the time Ms A attempted to update her claim. So on balance, I 
am persuaded that the error cannot be attributed to AXAs actions here.
Therefore, whilst I appreciate the whole matter will have caused Ms A a great deal of 
frustration, I cannot hold AXA responsible for the claim not being updated on her 
policy. AXA did offer to provide a new policy to Ms A as a goodwill gesture, and I 
think this was fair and reasonable to acknowledge that this may well have been a 
genuine mistake.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman