DRN-3753703
The complaint
Mrs E and Mr E have complained about the service received by Inter Partner Assistance SA 
(IPA) under their home emergency policy following a water leak. For avoidance of doubt, in 
this decision, IPA includes its representatives, agents and contractors.
What happened
Mrs E and Mr E experienced a leak at their property in November 2021. Mrs E and Mr E had 
a home emergency insurance policy with IPA at the time and they therefore called IPA to 
report the issue. A representative attended the property the following day, applied leak 
sealant to the system and advised that if the leak continued, to call back. In January 2022, 
Mrs and Mr E again contacted IPA to report a leak. IPA said that trace and access wasnt 
covered by the policy and that Mrs E and Mr E needed to contact their home insurer. The 
leak was uncovered and repaired a fortnight later.
Mrs and Mr E were unhappy with the way in which IPA had handled the matter and 
complained to this service. They thought that if IPA had traced, and properly repaired the 
leak in November 2021, they wouldnt have had to experience further delay, stress and 
inconvenience in January and February 2022.
Our investigator upheld Mrs E and Mr Es complaint. She considered that there was no 
evidence that the second leak came from the same source as the first leak or that IPA hadnt
stopped the first leak. She thought however that the policy definition for trace and access 
was ambiguous. She thought it was damage caused tracing the issue that wasnt covered 
and that IPA should therefore have carried out the trace and access. She thought that IPA 
therefore caused unnecessary delays by telling Mrs and Mr E that they werent covered and 
referring her to her home insurer.
Our investigator came to the view that if IPA had traced the leak, Mrs E and Mr E would 
nevertheless still have had to go through their home insurer to have the damage repaired. In
conclusion, as IPA had offered £150 compensation, she thought that this was is in line with
awards the service would recommend for inconvenience caused by delays. She didnt think
IPA needed to offer further compensation.
Mrs and Mr E remained unhappy with the outcome of the complaint and were seeking a 
greater level of compensation. The matter was then referred to me to make a final decision 
in my role as Ombudsman. I recently issued a provisional decision for this complaint and 
explained why I was minded to uphold Mrs E and Mr Es complaint as follows; -
 
The issue for me to determine is whether IPA applied the terms and conditions of its policy 
and treated Mrs E and Mr E in a fair and reasonable manner. On a provisional basis, I 
consider that IPA didnt act in a fair and reasonable manner in all respects.
The starting point in my consideration will be the policy documents and wording of relevant
terms and conditions. IPAs home emergency policy covered Mrs E and Mr E for 
emergencies, including those relating to hot and cold-water pipes and water leaks from the 
heating system. It covered organising and paying towards Emergency Repairs which are 
defined as work undertaken by an Authorised Contractor to resolve the Emergency by 
completing a Temporary Repair. The term Temporary Repair is defined as Repairs and/or 
work immediately required to stop further damage being caused by the Emergency. You will 
need to replace this with a Permanent Repair. The policy terms add however;- We would 
always recommend that You arrange for a Permanent Repair to be completed by a qualified 
tradesperson as soon as possible, once We have carried out an Emergency repair and 
contained the Emergency for You, as this may only provide a temporary solution to the 
problem. Whilst Permanent Repair is defined as Repairs and/or work required to put right 
the fault which caused the Emergency on a permanent basis.
In the policys general exclusions, under the heading What is not covered it refers to Cost
of Trace and Access to locate the source of the Emergency. Trace and Access is defined
as; Damage resulting from gaining necessary access to the Emergency or reinstating the
fabric of Your Home.
Mrs E and Mr E were unhappy with the service received from IPA both in November 2021
and in early 2022. They said that they only ever received one visit in November 2021. They
thought that if the engineer had tried to trace and expose the leak in November 2021, the 
damage to their home would never have happened. They said they were never offered
isolation of the water system in January 2022 and had been advised by IPAs representative
to keep the heating on day and night to keep the pipes expanded until engineers could 
attend to locate and fix the leak. Mrs E and Mr E said that the engineer who inspected the 
damage in January 2022 explained the situation well, he explained it like putting a plug in 
your bath and having a dripping tap for two months and the water was going into a Void.
Mrs E and Mr E said that in their view, the leak reported in November 2021 continued until 
February 2022. They thought it was dangerous, as water was leaking into the electrics and 
lights with large amounts of water entering the internal bricks, causing extensive damage. 
They said that calls to IPA were ignored and no action was taken. In early 2022, they said 
that IPAs lack of action meant they had to wait for weeks to get the leaking pipe repaired. 
Finally, Mrs E and Mr E said that the inconvenience, stress, anxiety and upset caused had 
been immense just to put our home back to its original state. Mrs and Mr E said theyd 
spent days trying to get IPA to help: - time and time again we were ignored. They felt that 
theyd paid insurance premiums in good faith and when a home emergency happened, they 
expected to be assisted in a timely manner.
In IPAs final response to Mrs and Mr Es complaint, it stated that when reporting the leak in
November 2021, Mrs E and Mr E confirmed there was a leak coming from a radiator or
heating pipework. It said that the plumber who attended found that the boiler was losing
pressure and diagnosed a leak from the boiler pipework and advised that a heating engineer
was required. It said that a representative was duly deployed the following day. He was 
unable to locate the leak but added a leak sealant to the heating system and advised that if 
the leak continued, to contact IPA again. It said that the engineer had offered to turn off the 
water supply and to drain down the system to stop further damage, but that Mrs E and Mr E 
had politely declined.
IPA said that it then received a telephone call from Mrs E and Mr E in January 2022 to 
advise that a leak had re-occurred and they required assistance. IPA thought there had been 
two separate leaks. It said that the engineer attended on the following day and realised that 
trace and access was required before a repair to the pipework could be made. It accepted 
that its agent didnt attend within its expected timescales. IPA agreed that it then advised 
Mrs E and Mr E on a few occasions to contact their home insurer to arrange the trace and 
access. It was adamant that this element was not covered by IPAs home emergency policy. 
It said that it became aware that the home insurer had also declined trace and access, and 
Mrs E and Mr E were willing to pay for the trace and access element personally. An engineer then attended in early February 2022, drained down the system and replaced the hot and 
cold-water feeds under the landing. The system was found to be working correctly with no 
further leaks.
IPA accepted that there had been an initial delay in an engineer attending in November 2021
and that Mrs E and Mr E had to chase IPA. It said that attendance wasnt received within 
our expected timescales. It also acknowledged that Mrs E and Mr E had to phone IPA 
several times for updates and didnt always receive a call back from its representatives when 
expected. It was unaware of where the leak was coming from but acknowledged that Mrs E 
and Mr E did state that the leak could be coming from the heating pipework. It stated that it 
would always send out a plumber to try and isolate an active leak to prevent further damage. 
As to events in early 2022, it accepted that after IPA became aware that the home insurer 
wasnt going to carry out trace and access work, there was a delay in its agent returning to 
carry out the repair.
As to the standard of work in November 2021, it said that a continuing leak would have 
become apparent straight away or shortly after if it had been repaired incorrectly, not two 
months later. It considered that there had been two separate leaks and disagreed with Mrs E 
and Mr E that the water had changed direction and leaked into a void. It said that as it had 
been unaware of any ongoing leak, it didnt consider it could uphold the complaint. It also 
said that there would always have been a need for damage caused by the original water 
escape to be addressed either privately or through Mrs E and Mr Es buildings insurance.
Having considered all available evidence and the submissions of both parties, Ive reached
the following provisional conclusions on the balance of probabilities. The terms and 
conditions of the home emergency policy make it clear that in an emergency, it will cover 
temporary repairs only and that policy holders needed to replace this with a Permanent 
Repair. Following the temporary repair carried out in November 2021 by the application of 
leak sealant, further problems didnt emerge until January 2022. It appeared that the 
problem had therefore been temporarily addressed as required by the policy. Mrs E and Mr 
E referred to evidence which suggested that it was likely that in the interim period, water had 
leaked into a void. I consider that its likely that this happened and that it was linked to the 
problem which occurred in December 2021.
It might be expected that, even for temporary repairs, some attempt would have been made 
under a home emergency policy to trace the cause of a leak, rather than simply to apply leak
sealant. The emergency policy however makes it clear that the emergency solution would 
only be a temporary repair to immediately stop the problem. Whilst this is a finely balanced 
judgment, I cant say that it was wholly unfair or unreasonable for IPA to have applied the 
terms and conditions in this manner. It could be anticipated that a permanent repair was 
likely to be required in the future. Although in November 2021 it appeared that the sealant 
had provided a temporary solution, its likely that it didnt fully resolve the problem. Its most 
unfortunate however that the continuing problem didnt emerge until January 2022 so that 
Mrs E and Mr E werent alerted sooner to the need for a permanent repair to be carried out. 
On the question of whether IPA reasonably declined to pay for trace and access, to get to 
the root of the problem in January 2022, again the policy wording is the starting point. The 
logical definition would simply have been the gaining of necessary access to achieve a 
temporary repair. Indeed, under the heading What is not covered, the policy refers to 
damage caused gaining necessary access to the Emergency otherwise known as Trace 
and Access. This supports the logical meaning of the policy. I consider that the wording of 
the policy terms and conditions is therefore unfortunate and creates ambiguity.
I also consider that it was unfair and unreasonable for IPA to decline to arrange to action 
necessary trace and access in January 2022, as it wasnt clearly excluded from the policy. Im satisfied that it wouldnt have been unreasonable for IPA to have declined to pay for the 
cost of any damage caused by such trace and access however, as this was clearly excluded 
from the policy. My provisional conclusion is therefore that the ambiguity in the policy meant 
that IPA didnt fairly and reasonably explain options to Mrs E and Mr E. It should have 
offered to arrange prompt trace and access in January 2022, whilst explaining that Mrs E 
and Mr E would be responsible for the cost of any damage caused by such trace and 
access. Its also likely that this ambiguity in the policy meant that no attempt was made by 
the engineer who attended in November 2021 to trace and access the leak. This may well 
have led to a more satisfactory temporary solution rather than application of leak sealant. I 
agree however with our investigator that the eventual, permanent solution was not one which 
would be expected to be achieved under Mrs E and Mr Es home emergency policy rather 
than their home insurance policy.
I appreciate that the involvement of two insurers in this context would have caused confusion
and frustration for Mrs E and Mr E. This is particularly the case in January 2022, as both
insurers declined responsibility for trace and access, and that this caused considerably more
delay than would otherwise have been the case. It wasnt entirely unreasonable for IPA to
refer Mrs E and Mr E to their home insurers, as they may have covered the cost of any 
damage caused by trace and access (such trace and access would inevitably have caused 
some damage, however minor). However, as above, the options were not fairly and 
reasonably explained by IPA and I consider that some of the confusion was due to IPAs 
flawed approach.
As to communication and administration issues, I agree with our investigator that there were 
a number failures by IPA. The records of IPAs agents are unclear, and I therefore accept 
Mrs E and Mr Es evidence that they were not offered isolation of the water system in 
January 2022 and had been advised to keep the heating on. I also accept that in both 
November 2021 and January 2022, Mrs and Mr E had to chase IPA for responses on a 
number of occasions. IPA accepted that there had been some failings in November 2021 
and also accepted that there was a delay in its representative returning to make the repair in 
February 2022.
I can understand that both the November 2021 and January 2022 incidents will have caused
inconvenience and distress for Mrs and Mr E. On a provisional basis, I also consider that the 
handling of the matter by IPA will have caused delays in reaching appropriate solutions and 
will have unnecessarily added to that inconvenience and distress. Our services approach is 
that modest compensation may be appropriate in cases where service delays have an 
impact upon the policyholder. In this case however, I consider that the delays and confusion 
took place over a number of weeks due to the approach taken by IPA. This will therefore 
have also caused additional inconvenience, upset, anxiety and distress to Mrs E and Mr E 
over a number of weeks. Im therefore minded to require IPA to increase the compensation 
to be paid from £150 to £450.
In my provisional decision, I asked both IPA and Mrs E and Mr E if they had any further 
comments or evidence they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
IPA accepted the provisional decision. Mrs E and Mr E also accepted the provisional 
decision and had nothing further to add apart from wishing to clarify one point. They said that 
when IPA sent its representative to attend to the leak in November 2021, he was not a Corgi 
registered gas engineer and was a drains specialist. Mrs E and Mr E considered that as such, he would not have been able to address and access the leak issues and to drain down 
the boiler, as IPA claimed it offered.
Whilst I note this further point made by Mrs E and Mr E, this doesnt alter the final outcome. 
In all the circumstances, Ive concluded that the provisional decision provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs E and Mr Es complaint and require Inter Partner 
Assistance SA to pay Mrs E and Mr E £450 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman