DRN-4443965
The complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to raise chargeback 
claims for payments he made to an online casino, preventing him from recovering them. He 
thinks NatWest should therefore refund him for the payments.
What happened
Around May 2021, Mr B opened an account with an online casino, R. He made a number of 
payments to R using his NatWest VISA debit card. He won Rs jackpot, but they refused to 
pay out. He says they ultimately stopped responding to him and suspended his account.
On 16 October 2021, Mr B called NatWest to dispute the payments to R. He explained he 
had a gambling block on his account, but the payments had gone through due to R using 
various merchant names, and various incorrect merchant categorisation codes (MCCs). He 
said that was against VISAs rules  and had allowed R to circumvent the gambling block.
On 19 October 2021, Mr B confirmed 54 transactions, made between August and October 
2021, which he was disputing. While they showed as going to various merchants, Mr B says 
the merchants were effectively acting as payment processors for R, as all the payments 
were loaded as credits to his account with R.
A few days later, NatWest notified Mr B it was declining his fraud claim. He complained, 
explaining his dispute was about R using incorrect MCCs. NatWest maintained there had 
been no bank error. Unhappy with this response, Mr B referred the matter to our service. He 
explained he had spoken to VISA, who advised him NatWest should have raised chargeback 
claims against the merchants shown on his statements.
An investigator for our service ultimately decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. She said 
that, as the payments didnt appear to go directly to R, it wasnt clear chargeback claims 
would have succeeded.
Mr B appealed the investigators outcome so the case was escalated to me. Earlier in 
November 2023, I issued my provisional decision explaining I was minded to uphold the 
complaint. I proposed that NatWest should refund 70% of the value of the disputed 
payments, plus interest, to compensate Mr B for his loss of chance. I invited both parties to 
respond before I made a final decision. 
Initially, Mr B said payments were missed that he thought should be included. And that he 
should be compensated for his time researching and bringing the complaint. But he then 
accepted the provisional decision. Similarly, NatWest has accepted the provisional decision. 
As both sides have responded, Im now proceeding to finalise my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have agreed with my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from it. I 
therefore uphold this complaint. 
Ill set out the reasons given in my provisional decision for arriving at this outcome. Ill 
additionally cover off the points I have already explained to Mr B directly, regarding his 
response to my provisional decision.
I have listened to the calls from October 2021 in which Mr B raised this matter with NatWest, 
to help me decide whether  as he alleges  it ought to have raised chargeback claims for 
the disputed payments.
For context, the chargeback scheme is a process for resolving settlement disputes, in line 
with rules set by the card scheme provider (in this case, VISA). In some circumstances, 
VISAs rules allow banks to claim in relation to issues between the card holder and the 
merchant paid.
The scheme is voluntary, so banks arent obliged to raise claims just because the card 
holder has reported a dispute. But our service would consider it good practice to do so if the 
claim was likely to succeed.
In the call on 19 October 2021, Mr B specifically asks about raising chargeback claims due 
to the merchants use of incorrect MCC codes. In line with the VISA rules, there is a 
chargeback claim option relating to this: VISA Dispute Condition 12.7: Invalid Data.
The rules explain disputes can be initiated under that condition if the authorisation request 
contained an incorrect MCC. Subject to certification that, and an explanation of why, the 
authorisation request would have been declined if valid data had been provided. There is 
nothing in the rules restricting such a claim being raised against a merchant providing 
gambling services. To defend such a claim, the acquirer would need to show why the 
dispute was invalid  such as showing the authorisation didnt contain invalid data.
The time limit for a chargeback claim under dispute condition 12.7 is 75 calendar days from 
the transaction date. Ive checked and the earliest payment disputed on 19 October 2021 
was from 9 August 2021. So Mr B notified NatWest of the dispute within the time limit.
However, from listening to the calls, I think NatWest misunderstood and mis-characterised 
Mr Bs dispute. Based on what he said, I think it should have considered whether to raise 
chargeback claims for the payments. So Ive considered the impact this error had on Mr B.
Our services role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. 
That involves taking into account relevant law and regulations. In this case, I think it is 
appropriate to characterise Mr Bs complaint to be about loss of chance  and to consider 
what the courts would be likely to award for this.
In line with how the courts would consider a claim for loss of chance, I am assessing 
whether there was a real and substantial chance that, but for NatWests failure to understand 
and act on Mr Bs dispute appropriately, he would have made a recovery from the merchants 
who the chargeback claims could have been raised against. If I find there was a substantial 
chance, I will assign a likelihood/percentage to that chance to determine a fair award.
I consider it clear Mr B wanted to pursue chargeback claims. And, for reasons Ill expand on 
below, I think there was a failure by NatWest in not putting forward his claims. I think there 
were reasonable prospects of success, such that it should have attempted claims in line with 
good industry practice. But for its failure to respond appropriately to Mr Bs dispute, I am 
persuaded the claims would have been raised.I dont consider the chances of the claims succeeding to be completely straightforward. 
There are a few reasons for this. But overall, I do think there was a real and substantial 
chance they would have. Ill explain why  addressing the reasons that complicate the 
chance of success:
I dont have firm evidence there was a gambling block on Mr Bs NatWest account at 
the time of the transactions. That is significant as, even if the merchants used the 
wrong MCCs, a claim under VISA dispute condition 12.7 would only succeed if using 
the correct MCC would have stopped the payment from being taken.
The payments Mr B is disputing went to merchants using the following MCCs: 7994 - 
Video Game Arcades; 5399  Misc General Merchandise; 8999  Professional 
Services; 5818  Digital Goods; 5999  Misc Specialty Retail; and 4900  Utilities. 
Whereas NatWest has confirmed that, if the payments were for gambling, the 
merchants should have used MCC 7995. And my understanding is that, if there was 
a gambling block on the account at the time, payments to merchants using MCC 
7995 would have been blocked.
As I dont have a record of the block, I cant be certain the payments would have 
been blocked if the authorisation requests had used MCC 7995. But I am persuaded 
of this point on balance. This is because, when Mr B spoke to NatWest at the time, 
he mentioned the gambling block on his account. And NatWest didnt dispute that 
there was one, which I expect it would have done if there wasnt. NatWest also 
acknowledges it may not have a record of the block due to record retention, rather 
than because there wasnt one.
There is also limited evidence to show the payments Mr B has disputed were, in fact, 
going to R. He has provided some screenshots of his account with R, showing credits 
which appear to tally with the payments he is disputing. But the records are 
incomplete. Which does affect my judgment on whether there was a real and 
substantial chance of the claims succeeding.
I think the lack of information we have about this is, in part, attributable to NatWests 
failings. If it had directed Mr B correctly on the processing for raising chargeback 
claims, I consider it likely he would have got better records. He says he was never 
directed to try to resolve things further with R, or to get evidence to show the 
payments were ultimately credited to his account  which I consider it likely NatWest 
would have directed him on if it had correctly considered his dispute.
On balance, I am persuaded by Mr Bs consistent testimony and the detailed records 
he has pulled together to try to reconcile the payments shown on his statements with 
the partial records he has of the credits applied to his R account. These were 
obtained prior to R blocking his account. They suggest the payments were all 
ultimately processed by/on behalf of R.
If we accept the payments did go to Mr Bs gambling account with R, which Ive 
explained I consider likely, some of the MCCs (such as the code relating to utilities) 
seem clearly incorrect. However, some merchants used the MCC for video game 
arcades and digital goods. It is less clear whether R could have been providing 
services that might reasonably fall within those categorisations.That said, for similar reasons to those given above, I do consider it likely that the 
payments were for gambling. Mr B has been clear and consistent on this point, and 
the records he has provided does seem to show funds being loaded to a casino 
wallet. Mr B explains he was drawing on this pot to use Rs online casino. Bearing in 
mind Ive found its likely he could have got better records but for NatWests failure, I 
dont think this undermines his case for having a real and substantial chance of 
raising successful chargeback claims. The potential disparity between the likelihood 
of the claims succeeding, in line with the various MCCs used, is something I will take 
into account further when deciding the appropriate level of redress.
It has been difficult to establish where R are based. My research on this isnt 
conclusive, but it does appear they operate from overseas. And the individual 
merchants paid (who I believe were acting for R) also show as operating from outside 
the UK. Bearing in mind the merchants will be subject to local laws, that makes it 
possible they may have been able to use non-gambling MCC codes  as local laws 
may differ in their definition of gambling and/or the requirements they place on 
merchants providing gambling services.
On the other hand, VISAs chargeback scheme, and its rules, are global. So it seems 
reasonable to conclude that, in providing gambling services, the merchants should 
have been using MCC 7995.
Taking all of this into account, I think Mr Bs chargeback claims had a real and substantial 
chance of succeeding. There are reasonable grounds to think the merchants may have been 
using incorrect MCCs to circumvent a gambling block that would otherwise have prevented 
the payments from being taken.
I have therefore gone on to consider what Mr Bs chances of success were, to determine 
what redress should be paid by NatWest to compensate him for his loss of chance due to 
failing to raise his claims. In line with the approach taken by the courts, I propose to calculate 
this on a percentage basis.
As explained above, there are several factors which lead me to conclude the chances of the 
claims succeeding are not 100%; there is too much uncertainty, and not enough clear and 
persuasive evidence. But I have also set out above the factors which persuade me there 
were reasonable prospects for the claims to succeed.
There is one further point I would highlight, which has a bearing on my judgment on what 
level of award would be fair, in addition to the points Ive already laid out.
In all the circumstances, it does look credible and persuasive to me that these merchants 
were engaging in untoward activity.
There are many reports online of Rs clients experiencing problems with their services. They 
also dont make it clear where they are operating from, or provide much traceable 
information about their operations.
For those locations which there are suggestions online that R may be operating from, I have 
checked their respective gambling commissions/authorities. R invariably arent registered 
with them. If R were operating legitimately, it does strike me as odd that they wouldnt be 
more forthcoming about their operations. To my mind, that adds weight to Mr Bs allegation 
that they are operating in a way to circumvent VISA requirements, using firms as aliases or 
to obscure what they are doing.If the merchants involved in these payments are not operating within VISAs rules, that 
makes it less likely they would, and could, successfully defend chargeback claims against 
them.
On that basis, I think there are reasonable grounds to suspect the merchants may have 
decided to allow Mr Bs chargebacks if they had been raised. Defending the claims would 
have risked then moving forward to the arbitration stage of the chargeback process  at 
which point VISA would have looked at both sides submissions and decided whether the 
claims should succeed.
If the merchants werent following VISAs rules, they probably wouldnt want to draw 
attention to this by engaging with VISA.
When weighing all of this up, I consider it reasonable to assign an overall chance of 70% to 
Mr Bs prospects of his 54 claims succeeding. This takes into account variations across the 
claims based on the particular MCCs used. But I consider it pragmatic and fair to reach an 
overall percentage chance to serve as the basis for calculating the redress I think NatWest 
should pay, to compensate Mr B for his loss of chance.
Following my provisional decision, Mr B pointed out he had told us about further payments to 
Red Lion. He queried whether those should be included in my award. As I have explained to 
him, I dont think they should be. The figure of 54 disputed payments matches the records I 
have from the time. Its also the figure he gave when he referred the matter to our service. 
That suggests the additional transactions werent reported within the applicable time limit for 
the chargeback process. 
I appreciate there probably were further payments to Red Lion. But on the balance of the 
available evidence, Im not persuaded NatWest missed them or can be held at fault for Mr B 
not reporting them in time. It would be for Mr B to check and confirm the transactions he was 
disputing. Overall, I don't consider it likely that failings by NatWest caused a substantial loss 
of chance regarding any further payments. 
Mr B also said he had put time and effort into pursuing his loss. While that is true, Im not 
persuaded it is fair to award him additional compensation for that  bearing in mind he is 
being awarded for (part of) his loss, with interest. It is part and parcel of raising a dispute that 
it will involve some effort. But our service is available to use as a free and informal way of 
pursuing such matters. And there is a level of individual discretion involved regarding how 
much time is taken to pursue things.  
Overall, I consider that directing NatWest to pay an award in line with Mr Bs 70% loss of 
chance in relation to the 54 disputed transactions, with interest, is a fair way to resolve this 
complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct National Westminster Bank 
Plc to:
Refund 70% of the value of the transactions Mr B disputed on 19 October 2021, to 
compensate him for his loss of chance (which NatWest has calculated to be 
£3,916.96); and 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, accruing from 19 October 2021 (the 
date of his attempted claim) to the date of settlement, to compensate Mr B for the 
loss of use of those funds.
National Westminster Bank Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr B accepts my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman