DRN-3482702
The complaint
Mr F complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) blocked his accounts and denied him access 
to the funds in the accounts.
What happened
In October 2019 Metro blocked Mr Fs accounts, while it carried out a review. In January 
2020, it requested information from Mr F to help complete its checks. Metro completed the 
review, and on 18 March 2020 gave Mr F 60 days notice of its intention to close his 
accounts. The funds in Mr Fs accounts were used to settle the outstanding balance on his 
Metro credit card and, after several attempts, Mr F was eventually able to make a final 
payment to clear the card balance in full.
While Metros review was ongoing, Mr F complained. He wasnt happy that Metro had 
blocked his accounts without telling him why, and he wanted the block to be lifted. Metro 
issued its final response to Mr Fs complaint on 31 January 2020. It said it had blocked the 
accounts in line with its terms of business and said it would contact him when it had further 
information for him.
When Mr F brought his complaint to our service, our investigator upheld it in part. She said 
Metro was entitled to block and close the accounts, and didnt have to explain the reasons 
for its actions. But she felt Metro had taken longer than it should have done to complete its 
review. And had caused Mr F frustration and inconvenience during the review, and when he 
tried to settle the outstanding debt.  She set out details of the distress and inconvenience 
Metro had caused Mr F and said it should pay him £400 in recognition.
Metro accepted our investigators findings, but Mr F didnt. He asked for an Ombudsman to 
review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block
The banking industry is heavily regulated and all banks in the UK have various legal and 
regulatory obligations, with which they must comply. As part of those obligations, sometimes 
banks have to review their customers accounts and request certain information or 
documents. While the review is ongoing, theyre entitled to block the accounts and deny 
access to any account funds.
Having looked at all of the evidence, Im satisfied Metro was entitled to take the actions it 
did. Metro has explained that it was acting in accordance with the terms and conditions of Mr 
Fs accounts and, having reviewed the same, Im satisfied that it was and that it was 
complying with its legal and regulatory obligations in doing so.
I understand Mr F wants to know why Metro blocked his accounts and why the review lasted 
so long. However, Metro isnt obliged to disclose the reasons for the block and ongoing 
review, so I cant say it did anything wrong by not telling Mr F when he asked Metro why his 
accounts had been blocked.
Delays
With that being said, I do think Metro took longer than it should have done to complete its 
review. Mr F says Metro didnt request information from him until January 2020, and Ive 
seen no reason why it couldnt have requested that information when it first blocked the 
accounts. Indeed, Metro has accepted it should have completed the review more quickly 
than it did. While the outcome of Metros investigation wouldnt have changed, Mr F would 
have regained access to his funds more quickly than he ultimately did.
Further, Mr F has provided evidence that suggests his credit report was damaged while the 
block was in place. The evidence Mr F has submitted details 5 arrears payments were 
registered in the name of Metro. And it shows a credit limit on a separate account was 
reduced from £10,500 (although Mr F says around £7,000) in April 2020 to 800 in May 2020. 
While there are many reasons why a credit file might be affected, Im satisfied that Mr Fs 
credit file was adversely impacted by the missed payments Metro registered on his account.
So, Ive thought about what Metro should do to put things right for Mr F. Ive seen that it 
refunded the interest payments Mr F accrued due to its block, and it appears that Metro has 
since removed the adverse payment from Mr Fs file. That leaves any financial loss Mr F 
suffered as a result, and any distress and inconvenience he experienced.
Mr F rejected our investigators suggestion that Metro should pay £400 in compensation. 
But, having looked at everything Mr F has said, Im not persuaded he incurred any losses or 
distress and inconvenience that would justify a payment higher than £400. 
I recognise he had to contact Metro on a number of occasions, and that Metro didnt make 
matters clear for him, and that he had to make several attempts to clear his credit card 
balance. And I accept Mr F would have suffered trouble and upset as a result of his credit 
limit reducing and his credit report being affected.
However, I havent seen any evidence that demonstrates Mr F suffered financial losses as a 
result of those issues. Mr F has said he had to borrow £15,000 from a family member, but 
that appears to relate to an account in the name of his limited company, which I will address 
in a separate decision. And in any event, his total personal account balance was £488.73. 
So, I cant reasonably say Metros delay denied him access to funds above that amount.
I do recognise the level of chasing and frustration Mr F experienced, and I dont 
underestimate his strength of feeling about this matter. But Im satisfied £400 is fair 
compensation for the issues Mr F experienced relating to the delays, settlement of his credit 
card account and the impact on his credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that Metro Bank PLC must remove the markers applied to Mr Fs credit 
file in error (if it hasnt already done so), and pay Mr F £400.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman