DRN-4091103
The complaint
Mr A complains that Epayments Systems Ltd blocked his account and he wasnt able to 
access his funds. Hed like compensation for the impact. 
What happened
The facts which led to Mr A bringing his complaint to our service are well known to both 
parties, so I wont be repeating them in full here.
In summary, Mr A had an Epayments account. On 11 February 2020 the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) placed limitations on Epayments. This meant Epayments 
were unable to process any transactions until the limitations were lifted. This meant Mr A 
couldnt access his money. The original restrictions were lifted on 23 February 2022 and 
Epayments began the process of reviewing customers accounts and refunding customers.
But Mr A has yet to have his funds returned to him.
Mr A complained to our service. One of our investigators looked into Mr As complaint. 
He said Epayments were responsible for the limitations placed on them by the regulator and 
they should compensate Mr A for the time he didnt have access to his funds. He awarded 
Mr A 8% interest for the time he wasnt able to access his funds as well as £150 for the 
distress of not having access to his account. He also asked if any currency conversion fees, 
or other fees/commissions were charged by Epayments that these should be refunded. 
Mr A agreed with the view.
Epayments didnt. Theyve since made two offers to Mr A to return the funds and pay £750, 
and an offer to pay 1% on his balance and £150 compensation. Mr A didnt accept either 
offer.
In rejecting the view Epayments said:
They kept Mr A informed at every step of the restriction.
Mr As difficulty in accessing his funds was due to the FCA's limitation on withdrawals 
from EPayments account balances.
They empathise with Mr As situation of not having access to his funds and, 
therefore, have offered a compensation amount of 1% of his account balance from 
11 February 2020. And £150 compensation.
They are allowed to withhold funds as per their KYC processes and the terms and 
conditions of the account.
They dont pay interest on their accounts and to pay an award of interest theyd need 
to be satisfied that Mr A was going to move the money to an account where interest 
would have been earnt, or invested and generating a high return of 8%.
As theres been no agreement its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a regulated business Epayments have certain obligations which they must comply with. 
They are subject to regulation by the FCA. The FCA applied restrictions on Epayments for 
reasons widely publicised and also detailed on their company website. As a result, 
Epayments suspended their operations. This had a significant effect on Mr A. 
Once Epayments agreed to suspend their operations to carry out the work required of them 
by the FCA they werent able to return Mr As funds. However, I understand these have now 
been lifted. 
Epayments are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal 
and regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. Epayments have explained that they needed to carry out due diligence 
checks before releasing Mr As funds  I understand these checks have been completed and 
Epayments are now in a position to refund Mr A the funds in his account. 
Mr A shouldnt suffer a detriment because Epayments suspended its operations. Our 
investigator has said Mr A should be paid 8% interest for the period of time Mr A didnt have 
access to his funds and I agree. Epayments have suggested they shouldnt be held liable for 
the delays in being able to return Mr A his funds as this was due to restrictions placed on 
them by the FCA.
But I disagree. The reason why Epayments had to suspend their operations was due to their 
own failures and it would be unfair for Mr A to be impacted because of this. I agree 
Epayments acted fairly in carrying out due diligence checks on Mr As account but it doesnt 
follow that I think the restriction on Mr A being unable to access his funds was fair. Im 
satisfied Epayments should be held liable for the delays in Mr A not being able to access his 
funds. 
Epayments have argued that 1% interest for the time period the money was restricted is fair, 
considering they dont pay interest on the money in their accounts and 8% should only be 
granted if Mr A was going to move the money to an interest paying account or have some 
very successful investments. Ive thought about Epayments argument, but I dont agree. I 
accept that Mr As account didnt pay interest, but I agree with our investigator that 8% 
interest is appropriate in Mr As case. I say this as Mr A was deprived of the use of his funds. 
He wasnt able to utilise them for day to day expenditure, transfer them to an interest paying 
account or invest them.
Putting things right
I therefore think Epayments should pay Mr A 8% simple interest for the period of time he 
didnt have access to his funds.
Our investigator also recommended Mr A is compensated £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr A suffered for his account being blocked for so long. I agree this is a fair 
amount and in line with our awards for similar cases.In some cases, Epayments or their banking partner may charge currency conversion fees 
and commissions when refunding account balances. In Mr As case I dont think he should 
have to pay any currency conversion fees or commissions for accessing the funds in his 
account. If Mr A has been charged any such fees or commissions, I require Epayments to 
refund these. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold the complaint. I require Epayments Systems Ltd to:
Refund the money in Mr As account.
Pay Mr A 8% simple interest on the money in his account, calculated from 
11 February 2020 to the date Epayments refund Mr A.
Pay Mr A £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
If any currency conversion fees, or other fees/commissions are charged by 
Epayments or their banking partner during the refund process, these should also be 
refunded.
Epayments must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr A 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Epayments considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr A a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman