DRN-1167407
Complaint
Mr K complains that he received misleading emails from Tesco Personal Finance plc trading 
as Tesco Bank (Tesco) regarding the interest rate on his credit card. 
Background
Mr K has a credit card with Tesco which gave 0% introductory interest rate on balance 
transfers for 18 months and money transfers for 12 months. Mr K received various emails 
from Tesco offering other 0% interest rate deals, the most recent of which he believed was 
offering a change to his existing terms and conditions on his card. Mr K also mentioned he 
had suffered an injury earlier in the year that had added further stress and worry for him. 
Tesco say that it was clear, in line with other emails he had received; this was an 
introductory offer that didnt apply to his existing credit card balances. Mr K disagreed saying 
Tesco should apply the 0% interest on his card in line with the offer. The matter was then 
referred to this service.
The investigator obtained the information available but didnt uphold the complaint saying 
that the emails from Tesco were clear. The investigator said that Mr K should have realized 
that these emails were not applicable to his existing credit card balance but were for any 
new balances and money transfers. The investigator also referred Mr K to the original credit 
card agreement which he felt showed the correct interest rate terms for the balance om his 
account. The investigator also explained that his credit card statements showed when the 
introductory rate on Mr Ks card was coming to an end. Overall he felt Tesco hadnt done 
anything wrong. Mr K disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available information, evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for similar reasons. I will explain why I have come 
to my decision.
I can understand the stress Mr K has been under, especially if his injuries coincided with the 
various emails he had received, and I am sure these would have been the last thing on his 
mind. Given Mr Ks circumstances I can see that at first glance these offers could seem as 
being the rates being offered to Mr Ks existing card balance and money transfers. Having 
said this, when coming to my decision I need to be fair and reasonable to both parties, 
based on the information before me. 
I have reviewed the  copies of the  emails sent to Mr K offering him new balance and money 
transfer interest rates, the latest of which say that these rates apply to balance transfers and 
money transfers made from the date of the email and valid for one month. The offer says 
that these introductory interest rates will last for a period of 12 months. What is important 
here is that, under the Important information section of the email it says that You can only transfer a balance from a non Tesco Bank credit card or a store card held in your name 
and Transfers may be requested via
Online Banking, our Mobile Banking App, or by phone. This section also has a Find out 
more icon and a phone number for Mr K to call.
So when thinking of Mr Ks point that he had misleading information, I have taken the view 
that when the email says you can only transfer a balance from a non Tesco Bank credit card, 
Tesco was making clear this offer didnt apply to existing balances on Mr Ks Tesco card but 
to new balance transfer. Additionally, as the email says balance transfers are to be 
requested by phone, online or App, its a strong indicator that Mr K would need to take some 
action here. Finally, the Find out More icon invites Mr K to enquire about making a new 
transfer.
I am satisfied that under the Important Information section of the email it makes clear that 
this is not applicable to existing Tesco Bank credit card balances and transfers need to be 
requested by contacting Tesco.   I have also considered if Tesco had provided any other 
information that could have led Mr K to have assumed the new offered rate was going to be 
applied to his card. I have seen a copy of his credit card statement sent around the same 
time as the promotional offer email and this clearly shows the date Mr Ks original 
introductory offer is due to expire and that it will switch to the standard rate. 
I have also seen a letter sent to Mr K one month prior to the expiry of his original introductory 
offer, letting him know when his introductory rate would be expiring and the interest rate 
would be increasing   .The letter invites Mr K to contact them if he had any questions.  I can 
see that the expiry of the introductory offer matches the original Credit Card Agreement 
signed by Mr K. 
So, when looking at all of these letters and emails together, I can see these may have been 
confusing especially given Mr Ks personal circumstances at that time. But to be fair and 
reasonable to both parties, Tesco werent to know about his circumstances. Taking 
everything I have seen, I am satisfied that Tesco havent tried to mislead Mr K in the emails 
sent to him and if he needed to he could have clarified the information by contacting Tesco.
I understand Mr K will be disappointed with my decision but Id like to reassure him I have 
considered everything carefully.  Finally, if Mr K is experiencing financial difficulties, Id urge 
him to speak with Tesco to discuss his situation and see what it can do to help.
My Final Decision 
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 
24 May 2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman