DRN-3716210
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with the settlement AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) offered 
following their claim for lost or stolen jewellery.
Mr and Mrs A have home insurance with AXA in joint names but, for ease of reading, Ill refer 
only to Mrs A throughout my decision.
What happened
A month after returning from holiday, Mrs A noticed that jewellery was missing from her 
luggage. She made a claim under the cover for personal possessions away from home. After 
assessing the loss, AXA accepted Mrs As claim and offered a settlement of £2,500. 
Mrs A complained because the jewellery was valued at around £20,000 and she had cover 
for £2,500 per item. However, AXA explained that the cover was the maximum offered for 
the total loss, not per item. So, Mrs A brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator said AXA made an offer in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, 
so she didnt think AXA had done anything wrong. 
Mrs A didnt agree. She said she was told time and again that she was covered per item, 
and she asked why shed been questioned so much if there wasn't any cover.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this is not the outcome Mrs A hoped for, Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint. Ill explain.
AXA accepted that Mrs As jewellery was lost or stolen, and it made an offer to settle the 
claim. The issue is that Mrs A doesnt think AXA made a fair offer because she believed her 
policy covered her for £2,500 per item.
The policy booklet confirms the following:
Personal possessions is a cover option you can add to your contents insurance. It 
provides protection to your belongings when away from your home.
What your policy covers
Personal effects, valuables and money are included if they belong to you or your family or 
you or they are legally responsible for them and they are mainly used for private 
purposes.
We will pay you up to the limit shown in your schedule for any one claim.
The policy schedule states:
Personal possessions
Sum insured: Up to £2,500
Im satisfied that the policy is clear and that the total cover for loss or theft of personal 
possessions is £2,500 per claim, not per item. 
Therefore, AXAs offer to settle the claim at £2,500 is fair and reasonable, and in line with 
the policy, so theres nothing for AXA to put right.
Although Mrs A was unhappy that AXA asked her lots of questions about her jewellery, 
theres no evidence that it asked her anything irrelevant to the circumstances of her claim. 
AXA wouldve needed to assess the circumstances to decide whether Mrs A had a valid 
claim under the policy. I cant see that AXA did anything wrong here.
I understand Mrs A has a complaint about the sale of the policy. Thats something shed 
need to raise as a separate issue directly with the business from which she bought the 
policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman