DRN-2136539
The complaint
Miss S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited provided poor service to her when she made 
a claim on her motor insurance policy after an accident.
What happened
On 2 May 2020 Miss Ss car was hit from behind by an uninsured driver. As Miss S didnt 
want to use one of Avivas approved repairers, she provided estimates from a dealership 
garage and her local garage. Avivas engineer thought both estimates were far too high. He 
tried to negotiate the price with the local garage, but he wasnt successful. Aviva said Miss S 
could have the work done by its approved repairer, or it would pay the sum the engineer 
thought was reasonable to her garage. 
Miss S said she had the right to have her car repaired where she chose. She said Aviva was 
trying to economise by not paying for new parts for the car, or for some of the suggested 
blending of the paintwork. She said it wanted to force her to use its approved repairer and 
didnt believe it would return her car to its pre-accident condition. And she also said that 
Avivas advisors had been rude to her and had acted in a bullying manner.
Aviva said Miss S was free to have her car repaired wherever she wanted, but that every 
estimate requires authorisation by its engineers to ensure that it doesnt pay inflated costs. It 
said Aviva and its customers had a duty to mitigate the cost of every claim, but that the 
engineer had not said new parts shouldnt be bought. Aviva said that (after several 
discussions with Miss Ss garage) the engineer had sent it an estimate on 20 May 2020 
showing the items and overall cost he was prepared to authorise, but he didnt get a reply.  
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Ss complaint. He noted that Avivas engineer had 
discussed the cost of repairs with Miss Ss garage. He thought it was fair for Aviva to say 
Miss S would have to pay for any costs over the estimate the engineer had provided. He 
thought it was reasonable for Aviva to mitigate costs where possible. The engineer didnt 
think the cars rear wings needed painting, but the investigator didnt think there was any 
reason to assume that the approved repairers work wouldnt be of the right standard.
In the investigators opinion, there was nothing in the call recordings hed heard to show that 
Avivas advisors were rude. He said Aviva had paid her £40 because a promised call wasnt 
returned. He accepted that the accident and the claim would have been stressful for Miss S, 
but he didnt think Avivas actions had added unduly to that. He said Aviva was unable to 
follow up on Miss Ss personal injury claim as the other car was uninsured and the driver 
unknown. He noted that Aviva had told her the police would need to try to identify him first.   
As Miss S wasnt happy with the investigators view, the complaint was passed to me.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Aviva acted reasonably in relation to the repairs to Miss Ss car, and I dont think 
theres any evidence that it delayed unduly in dealing with the claim. At well over £3,000, the 
estimates she provided were around twice the sum the engineer thought was reasonable for 
repairing a bumper. In particular, I can see why he thought the sum the local garage had 
quoted for labour was very high for a relatively small amount of work. 
Avivas engineer explained why he thought painting the cars rear wings wasnt necessary  
but he didnt say that new parts couldnt be used. I think it was reasonable for Aviva to rely 
on the view of its engineer, especially given that hed discussed the repairs in some detail 
with Miss Ss garage. Insurers (and consumers) have a duty to mitigate losses. I think Miss 
S was mistaken in believing that she had the right to force Aviva to pay whatever a repairer 
of her choice wanted to charge for the work. That practice would lead to hugely inflated costs 
for insurers generally and therefore to enormous increases in premiums for consumers. 
In my opinion, there was no reason for Miss S to assume that if she agreed to the work 
being done by the approved repairer, it wouldnt have been done to a good standard, with 
new parts fitted. The work would have carried a three-year guarantee. And if (after the parts 
were replaced) it looked as though any paintwork needed attention, I think the approved 
repairer would have raised the issue with Aviva. Thats not unusual in situations like this one, 
and I think the engineer is likely to have agreed to any necessary further work.
I dont think Aviva tried to force or bully Miss S to use the approved repairer. I think it has 
shown that, in line with the policy, it was happy for her to use any garage. But I think it was 
reasonable for it to say that if she chose to do that, she would have to pay the sum her 
repairer wanted to charge over and above the sum authorised by Avivas engineer. 
Aviva wasnt able to provide recordings of all the calls with Miss S. It says that was due to 
staff working from home as a result of the pandemic. In the calls Ive listened to, Avivas 
advisors were courteous to Miss S. I cant be sure whether other advisors were rude or not. 
But I think its fair to say that giving an unwelcome message to a consumer - and not 
agreeing to depart from it - can be seen as rudeness. And the file notes show that advisors 
thought Miss S was rude to them at times and wouldnt let them speak. Aviva accepted it 
was poor service for an advisor to promise a call to Miss S, when that then didnt happen, 
and it paid her £40 compensation for the error. I think that was more than fair.
Undoubtedly, Miss S found the claims process very stressful and frustrating, and she was 
dealing with very difficult personal circumstances at the same time. But in order to uphold 
Miss Ss complaint, Id have to conclude that Aviva had acted unreasonably. As I dont think 
she has shown that it did, Im not upholding her complaint.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Miss S to accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman