DRN-3596567
The complaint
Mr G complains that Redmayne-Bentley LLP (RB) made a trade without his permission.
What happened
Mr G has a trading account with RB. On 30 March 2022 he called his branch as he wanted 
to place a trade and purchase shares in Company P. When he called initially he was told 
there was a system issue and the RB agent was on the phone to another client.
RB called Mr G back and asked whether he wanted to place a trade. Mr G says he expected 
RB to call him back with a price before purchasing shares, as the agent couldnt see the live 
prices. When the agent called back, she said shed purchased 13,500 shares at a price of 
401p per share. Mr G wasnt happy. He didnt expect that to be the share price as hed seen 
a price of 375p at the time. RB explained he wasnt seeing live prices but raised a complaint 
for him.
RB felt that Mr G had given it an instruction to purchase £55,000 worth of shares. But it 
acknowledged the agent ought to have asked him if he had a limit price given the price of 
Company P shares was volatile. As a result, it offered to pay Mr G £1,755 which is the 
difference between the price he paid for 13,500 shares and what he wouldve paid had the 
shares been 388p per share  the price it was when he called.
Mr G didnt think this offer was fair. He also complained about the commission rate he was 
charged. Mr G confirmed he hadnt sold the shares. Our Investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. She explained that Mr G wouldnt have been able to purchase the shares at the 
price he originally saw. And she felt that his intention was to purchase these shares, so the 
offer RB had made was fair and reasonable as it reflected the position Mr G would likely be 
in had the live prices been available at the time. The Investigator said the commission 
charged was in line with the agreement Mr G had signed with RB.
Mr G disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to reach a decision. He has confirmed that if 
he was asked about limits, hed have set to buy at 375p and sell at 400p so hed have made 
a profit. As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I want to say that Ive considered all the information and all of Mr Gs points. 
However, my decision deals with the crux of the issue here which is whether Mr Gs trade 
shouldve been executed.
Ive listened the call recording between Mr G and RB. Its clear there was a 
misunderstanding. Mr G expected RB to call back with a price before the trade went ahead. 
But RB had said Ill come back to you when its been done meaning it would confirm when 
the trade was completed. I do think, given the volatility in the share price in Company P at 
the time, RB ought to have asked Mr G what his limit was, that is how much per share he 
wanted to pay.
From listening to the call recordings its clear to me Mr G wanted to purchase these shares, 
he said hed been looking at them for a few days. So, I do think its likely hed have placed a 
trade. But its also clear he was unhappy with the price at which he purchased the shares  
around 25 pence higher per share than what he thought they were. So, I do think its likely 
hed have set a limit. Its impossible for me to say what that wouldve been. Mr G has said it 
would have been 375p per share.
Ive looked at the share prices for the morning and it was volatile. When Mr G made his calls 
to RB the share price was between 386p and 388p. Im satisfied that Mr G wouldnt have 
been able to attain the price he could see on the internet at the time of 375p per share. Had 
RB called Mr G back or had its system available its likely it could quote the live prices to 
him, and given Mr G still has his shares and had every intention of purchasing them I think 
its likely hed still have purchased them at the price at the time.
Im mindful that when prices are volatile it can take some time to put trades through, so I 
cant say with any certainty what wouldve happened. But I think the offer that RB has made 
to give Mr G the difference between what hed have paid for the same amount of shares had 
it been put through during the call is fair and reasonable. Mr G has said hed have sold the 
shares at 400p but given the volatility of the share prices within the hour I dont think its 
likely this wouldve happened. Mr Gs share dealing history showed he hadnt made a trade 
with RB for around 10 years, and of those hed done, his selling of the shares he purchased 
were over a period of time. This doesnt indicate to me that he was looking to purchase 
shares to sell very quickly afterwards. And in any event Mr G didnt sell the shares.
Mr G has said throughout hed like his original money refunded. But I cant see hes 
attempted to mitigate his loss by selling the shares in Company P. If he didnt want the 
shares Id have expected him to do this. So, RBs offer in paying him the difference had the 
trade gone through at the time of the call is fair and reasonable.
I can see Mr G has also complained about the commission hes been charged, as he said 
hed agreed a lower amount with his specific RB agent. Ive not seen anything to suggest 
hes been charged anything outside of the agreed amount set out in his most recent 
agreement with RB which supersedes any agreement he had a decade ago.
I do appreciate Mr G will be disappointed with this decision, but I think RBs offer is fair and 
reasonable in this case and it must now pay this to him. RB acknowledged that its first offer 
of £1500 plus £500 dealing credit is also open instead of the £1,755 that it offered more 
recently. Ill leave it to Mr G to liaise with RB if he wants this redress instead of the fair and 
reasonable offer of £1,755.
My final decision
The offer Redmayne-Bentley LLP has made is fair and reasonable. I uphold this complaint 
and it must now pay Mr G the £1,755 it has offered him to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman