DRN-2114142
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy because they say Howden Employee Benefits & Wellbeing 
Limited (Howden) mis-sold them a private health insurance policy. As this complaint relates 
to Mr P Ill mainly refer to him. 
What happened
Mr P had a private health insurance policy with another insurer (who Ill refer to as Insurer 
A). Only he was covered by the policy and it had a moratorium in place. This meant he 
wasnt able to claim for problems related to his back unless hed been symptom free for a 
two year period. His policy also had a restriction which said that out-patient consultations 
and treatment must follow and be directly related to private outpatient surgical operations, 
day patient treatment and in-patient treatment. They also had to take place within the six 
months prior to the admission date or the six months following the discharge date of the 
treatment. 
In 2017 Mr P had a review with Howden and changed to a different insurer (who Ill refer to 
as Insurer B). It was cheaper than the policy he had in place. Mr P says he was told hed be 
covered under Insurer Bs policy for problems with his back. Mr P mentioned during the call 
in 2017 that hed recently had treatment for his back. In 2019 Mr P contacted Howden to 
make a complaint because hed been unable to make a claim for a problem related to his 
back  he said he wouldnt have switched to Insurer B if hed known his back issues wouldnt 
be covered. 
In their final response letter Howden said that Mr P had been told that there were no 
exclusions for pre-existing conditions with Insurer A so there would be none applied to the 
policy with Insurer B. They accepted they hadnt taken into account that Mr P had recently 
had treatment for his back, which under the moratorium wouldnt have been eligible for cover 
for the remainder of the moratorium period. However, Howden said that Mr P hadnt been 
disadvantaged as he wouldnt have been covered by Insurer A if hed stayed with them and 
the benefits of the policy with insurer B were much more comprehensive. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Mr Ps complaint in part. He 
explained that Mr P accepted that his level of cover was increased and he pays a lower 
premium  so hes happy to continue with the policy. He concluded that Mr P hadnt 
experienced any detriment as a result of the incorrect information being given.  But he 
recommended Howden paid Mr P £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Howden 
accepted the investigators findings, as did Mr P. However, Mr P then got in touch to say that 
he wanted Howden to pay for his back treatment, including a scan and consultation. Howden 
didnt agree to cover these costs and therefore Mr P asked an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Howden advised Mr P to take out the policy with Insurer B. So, under the relevant rules and 
industry guidelines they had a responsibility to ensure that it was right for him. And, they also 
needed to provide him with clear, fair and non-misleading information. 
Its accepted by Howden that the phrasing used by the advisor during the 2017 call wasnt as 
clear as it could have been and that they didnt take into account the recent treatment he 
mentioned during that call. So, its accepted that there were failings in the service provided. 
However, it doesnt automatically follow that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld in full. I also 
need to decide if Mr P lost out as a result of what happened and whether Howdens needs to 
do anything further to put things right in addition to their apology and paying £100 
compensation. 
Im not directing Howden to do anything further to put things right because: 
Im satisfied that the policy Mr P took out offered enhanced benefits at a reduced 
cost. When Mr P switched to Insurer B the moratorium period didnt start again, it 
continued to run from the point hed last had treatment. His policy with Insurer A 
offered much more limited cover compared to the policy he took out with Insurer B. 
There was no limitation on his ability to access private treatment, which is commonly 
referred to as a six week option. This meant Mr and Mrs P could access private 
treatment straight away. There was also enhanced cover for therapies and outpatient 
hospitalisation treatment
I dont think its fair and reasonable to direct Howden to cover the cost of the MRI 
scan and consultation. As Ive outlined above Mr Ps policy had limitations on 
out-patient treatment which meant he had to self-fund outpatient consultations unless 
certain criteria were met. Based on what Mr P has told us he had an MRI scan and a 
consultation. That means Insurer A is unlikely to have covered this because I think it 
is unlikely that the criteria for Insurer As out-patient treatment would have been met. 
So, Im not persuaded Mr P has lost out by moving from Insurer A to Insurer B, 
especially bearing in mind the enhanced cover and reduced premiums
In the specific circumstances of this case, I dont think Mr P has lost out as a result of 
what went wrong. Given the features of Insurer Bs policy, and the difference in price, 
I dont think the recommendation to switch from Insurer A to Insurer B was unsuitable 
based on Mr Ps demands and needs. And, I dont think it has meant Mr P has lost 
out on the opportunity to claim if hed have stayed with Insurer A
I think the offer of £100 acknowledges that Mr P could have been given a better 
service during the call and fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused when 
he discovered he wasnt covered for back problems. So, Im not directing Howden to 
pay Mr P any more compensation. Putting things right
I direct Howden to pay Mr P £100 compensation if it hasnt done so already. But Im not 
directing them to do anything more as I think thats fair compensation.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint against Howden Employee Benefits & Wellbeing 
Limited. Howden should put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman