DRN-3472726
The complaint
Mr S complains about a loan provided to him by Everyday Lending Limited, trading as 
Everyday Loans, (ELL), which he says was unaffordable. Mr Ss complaint has been 
brought to this service on his behalf by a claims management company. But for ease, I shall 
refer below to all actions being taken by Mr S. 
What happened
ELL entered into an agreement for a loan for Mr S on 13 July 2017. The loan was for £3,000 
and was repayable by 24 monthly payments of £239.01. The interest rate was 74.9%,       
(106.8% APR). If Mr S made each repayment when it was due, the total amount payable 
was £5,736.24. Mr S said that the loan was for debt consolidation. The loan has been 
repaid.
Mr S says that he had other debts at the time of taking out the loan  He does not believe ELL 
could have suitably assessed his application. As a result of this borrowing Mr S had 
experienced a breakdown in the relationship with his partner. He also said  that the loan 
information wasnt given to him in a concise manner that he understood and that the fees 
which were applied when he hit financial difficulty during the repayment of the loan were not 
explained properly to him. 
In its final response letter ELL said, in summary, that it believed the checks completed were 
reasonable and proportionate and that the loan was sustainable over the term of the loan as 
Mr S had disposable income.  
Our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. He said that there 
were signs in ELLs credit checks (including a recent default on a credit card)  that Mr S was 
struggling financially to sustain his current credit commitments He thought that the checks 
ELL carried out demonstrated that Mr S would have been unlikely to be able to make his 
repayments sustainably.
ELL disagreed and responded to the investigators view by saying:-
- It couldnt see that Mr S has defaulted on a credit card. But there was a default on a 
credit card belonging to his ex-wife.
- It could see that Mr S had taken several loans in March, April, and May 2017 which he 
advised he had taken to pay for home improvements and had got stuck in a cycle.  The 
proceeds of its loan were to consolidate these payday loans and to partially clear       
Mr Ss credit card and overall help him. 
- It could see that Mr S had a remaining disposable income of £409.35.  
- Whilst there were historical loans showing on its checks, it didnt consider these loans 
suggested a pattern.  
The investigator accepted that the defaulted credit card didnt belong to Mr S.
As this complaint wasnt resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S
and to ELL on 8 April 2022. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that when ELL lent to Mr S, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). Its rules and guidance obliged ELL to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this 
meant that ELL needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not 
a borrower could afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the 
lifetime of the loan agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet these 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so ELL had to think about whether Mr S could 
sustainably repay his loan. In practice, this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr S undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr S. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks 
- the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit was 
likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make payments for an extended 
period);
Id noted that ELL had gathered some information from Mr S about his net income and 
mortgage before it agreed the loan. It also carried out a credit check and obtained bank 
statements from Mr S. It also estimated Mr Ss expenditure as 35% of his income. 
ELL used the lowest monthly income it had seen on Mr Ss bank statements of around 
£2,285 in its affordability calculations. Mr S told ELL that he was a homeowner and paid a 
monthly mortgage repayment of around £441. Although Mr Ss application form showed he 
had no dependents, ELL was aware that he had a former partner and a child and that he paid his former partner £190 each month. ELL said that Mr Ss monthly credit commitments 
were £476. But in calculating this amount, ELL used a minimum repayment amount to 
calculate Mr Ss monthly credit card repayment. I didnt think this was reasonable. As ELL 
would be aware, making minimum repayments effectively extends credit card debt 
potentially for years and it adds very significantly to the long term cost of that credit. 
Repayments at that level are insufficient to make any meaningful inroads into card balances. 
ELL had calculated that Mr Ss total expenditure including estimated living costs, mortgage 
and credit commitments was £2,196.81. ELL had calculated that Mr S would have a monthly 
disposable income of £409.35 after consolidating his debts and after its loan repayment. But 
Mr S was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. He would need to make monthly 
repayments of around £240 for 24 months. I thought in Mr Ss circumstances, it needed to 
tailor its assessment to Mr Ss actual financial situation rather than rely on an estimate of   
Mr Ss expenditure.
ELLs contact notes showed that Mr S had told it that he had arrears on a credit card and 
had overcommitted himself with payday loans used for home improvements and they had 
left him struggling and stuck in a cycle of using them. Mr S said that hed intended to clear 
the payday loans with £1,138 from the proceeds of the loan. ELL would give Mr S a cheque 
for £1,000 to pay to his credit card provider. Mr S would be left with £862 to get back on 
track.  
The lender provided this Service with its credit checks which Id reviewed. Mr S had four 
active loan accounts and one active credit card account. The loans balance was £450, and 
the credit card balance was £2,663. Mr S also had a mortgage with a balance of around 
£100,000. And he had three current accounts which didnt have an overdrawn balance.
The credit checks showed that there were two defaulted accounts from late 2012 and 2013, 
but both had been settled.
The credit checks also showed that Mr S had taken out six payday loans in around the year 
prior to his loan application. Two of these for £300 each had been taken out in July 2016 and 
August 2016 and had both been repaid in September 2016. The other four payday loans 
totalling £750, which were still outstanding, were taken out from March 2017 to May 2017. In 
addition, Mr S had a credit card with a relatively large balance of £2,663 which had 
exceeded its credit limit of £2,500. Mr S had missed the last monthly payment on the card as 
well as payments ten and eleven months prior to the credit check. Hed also missed two 
mortgage payments around nine and ten months prior to the credit check and a 
communications account payment around eleven months prior to the credit check.
ELL had also made a list of Mr Ss financial commitments. Id noted that the list showed 
three payday loans Mr S received between 16 June 2017 and 6 July 2017 which werent on 
its credit checks and which it had seen on Mr Ss bank statements. So, ELL was aware that 
its credit checks might not provide a complete picture of Mr Ss credit commitments. The 
information wasnt necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a 
borrowers credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised. Also, not all lenders 
reported to the same credit reference agencies. 
Id said that simply performing credit checks wasnt enough. A lender needed to react 
appropriately to the information that any checks showed. Altogether, I thought ELL ought to 
have been concerned about Mr Ss regular use of payday loans. Hed taken out at least nine 
payday loans in the 12 months prior to the loan application. And as some of these had been 
taken out in the summer of 2016 and each month between March 2017 and July 2017, I 
thought it was likely that not all the payday loans were linked to carrying out home improvements as Mr S had told ELL. I also thought ELL might have been concerned about 
Mr Ss large and overlimit credit card balance and his recent missed payment on that 
account as well as the missed payments in the autumn of 2016 on three accounts including 
Mr Ss mortgage. I thought all this might have suggested that Mr Ss finances were under 
pressure and he was having difficulties managing his finances. 
I thought it would have been reasonable for ELL to conclude from its credit checks that it 
was likely that Mr S was experiencing financial difficulties. So, I thought ELL needed to 
carefully scrutinise the bank statements it received from Mr S to check that he would be able 
to repay the loan sustainably over the term of 24 months.
Mr S had told ELL he would be using part of the loan proceeds to consolidate his payday 
loans. I noted that ELL had provided Mr S with a cheque to repay £1,000 from his credit card 
balance, although a relatively large balance of £1,663 would be left to repay. But I couldnt 
see from the information received from ELL that it had made consolidation of the payday 
loans a condition of the loan. So, ELL wasnt in control of making sure Mr Ss payday loans 
were repaid. And it couldnt have been sure it wasnt putting Mr S in a worse position by 
increasing his overall debt. And he would be using part of the loan of £3,000 to repay those 
debts, but he would need around £5,700 to repay that loan over the loan term.  
Id noted that ELL had said in its final response letter that the loan was sustainable over the 
term of the loan as Mr S had disposable income. But this assumed Mr Ss need for credit 
wasnt an ongoing one. Id noted from the bank statements Id seen that Mr S had other 
short term loans which werent shown in ELLs credit checks and its credit list. It appeared 
hed borrowed payday loans totalling £500 in May 2017 and payday loans totalling £750 in 
June 2017 and hed borrowed another payday loan for £250 a week before he applied for 
ELLs loan. 
Id also reviewed the bank statements ELL saw for two of Mr Ss current accounts. Some of 
these were incomplete in that they didnt show the running account balances. It didnt seem 
that ELL had used the bank statements to verify its estimate of Mr Ss expenditure. But Id 
noted from ELLs contact notes that it did see that Mr S was taking out short term loans and 
that hed made gambling transactions totalling £280 which it didnt think was excessive. 
In addition to reviewing the account statements ELL saw, Id also asked the investigator to 
ask Mr S to provide us with earlier statements for those accounts and also for Mr Ss bank 
statements for his third current account to get a more thorough understanding of Mr Ss 
financial position. In view of Mr Ss use of short term loans and his gambling transactions, I 
thought ELL might have asked more about these and his other spending.
Id reviewed the bank statements for May 2017 and June 2017. In May 2017, Mr Ss 
spending on living costs and financial commitments to creditors and family exceeded the 
income hed received at the end of April 2017. In addition, hed spent around £400 on 
gambling and borrowed £500 in short term loans. His spending on financial commitments 
didnt include any payments to his overlimit credit card. In June 2017, Mr S had borrowed 
£750 in short term loans and spent around £240 on gambling transactions. His spending on 
his credit commitments again didnt include any repayments to his credit card. It also wasnt 
clear whether Mr S was able to meet his living costs. The joint account which had been used 
to pay some of these wasnt fully funded and many payments for living costs were returned 
unpaid.
Even though the loan was for debt consolidation, I thought the relatively high amount of short 
term borrowing and not insignificant gambling would have suggested that Mr S was having serious problems managing his finances that a debt consolidation wouldnt have solved. As 
Mr S was borrowing a significant amount of short term loans each month just to fund his 
existing expenditure and credit commitments, I thought there was a very real prospect that 
Mr S would need to borrow again in order to repay his new loan and that would likely have 
an adverse effect on his financial situation. Mr Ss finances werent stable and I thought if 
ELL had considered fully the information it had received and enquired further into Mr Ss 
financial situation, I thought it reasonably ought to have suspected that the loan was likely to 
be unsustainable. It appeared that Mr S was spending beyond his means and had been for 
some time, and further credit was likely to add to his indebtedness. 
I also noted that Mr S continued to borrow from short term lenders in the months following 
ELLs loan, and I thought this was foreseeable. Id noted that within three weeks of taking out 
ELLs loan he had taken out another payday loan for £250 and another short term loan for 
£390 the following month. 
So, for the reasons set out above I intended to say that ELL didnt make a fair lending 
decision when it provided the loan to Mr S and subject to any further representations by Mr S 
or ELL, I intended to uphold Mr Ss complaint and say that ELL should put things right as 
follows:-
Putting things right  what ELL needs to do
I understand that the loan has been repaid. As I intend to conclude that ELL was 
irresponsible to have lent to Mr S, he shouldnt have to pay any interest, fees, or charges on 
the loan. 
So, ELL should:
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr S on the loan;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in relation to the loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give Mr S 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr S hasnt responded to my provisional decision.
ELL hasnt responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry
practice at the time.
Given that Mr S and ELL have given me nothing further to consider, I see no
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I
uphold this complaint and require ELL to take the steps set out above under the heading
Putting things right - what ELL needs to do.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, to put things right as Ive set 
out above under the heading Putting things right  what ELL needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman