DRN-4289398
The complaint
Mrs O has complained about HCC International Insurance Company Plc trading as Tokio 
Marine HCC. She isnt happy that it declined her claim and voided her commercial property 
insurance policy.  
For ease of reading any reference to HCC International includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs O had a commercial insurance policy for her guest house and made an escape of water 
claim under the policy in December 2022. But when HCC International looked into the claim 
it turned it down. This was because it was established that Mrs O wasnt using the property 
as a guest house at the time of claim and hadnt been for a number of years due initially to 
the pandemic and then because of a personal injury. 
As Mrs O wasnt happy about this she complained to HCC International, but it maintained its 
position. It accepted that Mrs O had acted reasonably and in line with restrictions imposed 
during the pandemic but said she shouldve notified it she wasnt using the guest house as a 
business after this. And had she have done so it would have told her it wouldnt offer cover 
as she held a commercial policy, but she wasnt operating as such. And as Mrs O remained 
unhappy about her claim being declined she complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs O, but she didnt uphold her complaint. Although 
she accepted Mrs O hadnt acted unreasonably during the pandemic she thought Mrs O 
should have told HCC International that she wasnt taking guests after this due to her 
personal circumstances. And she was satisfied from the underwriting criteria provided that 
HCC wouldnt have offered cover in these circumstances. Given this she didnt think HCC 
International had done anything wrong. 
As Mrs O didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have a lot of sympathy for the position Mrs O has found herself. As HCC International 
highlighted there is no suggestion she deliberately misrepresented her position which is why 
it returned her premium. However, had Mrs O have told it that she wasnt operating a 
business after the pandemic due to personal injury then it is clear that it wouldnt have 
offered cover. So, I cant say it has acted unfairly. 
I know it wasnt Mrs Os intention to operate outside the policy for a prolonged period, but the 
policy is clear that if any part of the premises is left unoccupied for more than 14 
consecutive days then cover isnt provided. So I think Mrs O should have contacted HCC 
International to tell them about her present position and that she had an injury preventing her 
from operating her business. 
I accept this was an oversight, but I have to be fair to both sides when I consider cases and 
the policy is clear that the property needed to be in use. Indeed, the escape of water claim 
took place in the depths of a particularly cold spell, so it is quite possible that the way the 
guest house was being used contributed to the claim. I say this as Mrs O had turned off all 
the heating in the upper floors (as she only used downstairs personally) and so it is possible 
this could have contributed to the burst pipe.
Mrs O has advanced the point that she was sent literature outlining the policy wasnt to run 
as it usually would during the pandemic - suggesting that she thought she didnt have to do 
anything further after that point in time. But her claim was a long time after the pandemic 
restrictions were lifted and HCC International was clear that the cover would revert back to 
normal a short while after the pandemic restrictions were lifted. So, I think it was clear that 
Mrs O needed to tell it about any further change in use. 
Indeed, there is a greater onus on Mrs O to make a fair representation of the risk as a 
commercial customer. The Guest House and Hotel Certificate makes it clear that Mrs O 
should make a fair presentation of the risk that should include a full and unrestricted 
disclosure including every material fact and circumstance (a material fact or circumstance is 
material if it would influence the judgement of the Underwriter when considering whether to 
accept the risk and/or the assessment of the terms, conditions or premium which should be 
applied). And it outlined that she should check with her insurance advisor if she was unsure. 
It goes on to say that if Mrs O fails to make a full unrestricted disclosure Underwriters may 
refuse to pay your claim, pay only part of your claim, and/or void your policy. And highlights 
that any change during the period of cover needs to be highlighted to the insurer as soon as 
possible so the underwriters can decide if they can continue cover. HCC International has 
also provided underwriting criteria which clearly shows it wouldnt have offered cover to Mrs 
O had it have known she wasnt operating commercially for a sustained period. 
Overall, I dont think I can say that HCC International has acted unfairly here and Im not 
upholding this complaint. In line with the Insurance Act 2015 Mrs O had a duty to make a fair 
representation of the risk she posed in order that HCC International could make an informed 
choice about the risk. So, Mrs O should have informed it about the fact she wasnt trading 
since 2020. Indeed, I note that it asked some questions about her trade which she didnt 
answer and ultimately Im satisfied that it wouldnt have offered cover so I cant ask it to 
cover the claim now - as it simply wouldnt have insured her had it have been made fully 
aware of the risk. HCC felt that Mrs O didnt act deliberately or recklessly in not notifying it of 
this material change in the use of her guest house, so it returned her premium which feels 
fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman