DRN-3697600
The complaint
The estate of Mrs P complains about delays and difficulties when trying to close an account 
and withdraw funds from Al Rayan Bank PLC. 
What happened
The late Mrs P had an account with Al Rayan Bank. In July 2021 Al Rayan Bank was notified 
Mrs P had passed away and asked to provide account balances.  
Al Rayan Bank notified Mr P, the late Mrs Ps husband, it required proof of his identity and 
address as well as a copy of the death certificate to provide the account balance. Al Rayan 
Bank says its letter directed Mr P to its website for guidance on how to certify copied 
documents correctly. 
Mr P went on to submit copies of his drivers licence and passport but they werent certified 
so were rejected. 
In February 2022 Al Rayan Bank received a copy of the Grant of Probate naming Mr P as 
the executor. Another request for certified proof or Mr Ps identity and address was made. Mr 
P went on to submit copies that had been certified by a doctor and Al Rayan Bank rejected 
them. 
In March 2022 Mr P forwarded documents that had been copied and certified by The Post 
Office. Al Rayan Bank says Mr P failed to include the full certification details as he didnt 
forward the Document Certification Form that acts as a front sheet. The documents Mr P 
forwarded contained a stamp advising theyd been certified by The Post Office. 
Mr P has told us he is unwilling to supply further documents to Al Rayan Bank and that other 
institutions were willing to settle accounts without requiring the same documents to verify his 
identity. Mr P complained but Al Rayan Bank didnt agree it had acted unfairly or made any 
errors. Mr P also attempted to raise a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) but Al Rayan 
Bank declined to proceed. Al Rayan Bank said it needed Mr P to complete its verification 
requirements before it could process the DSAR. 
An investigator at this service looked at the estate of Mrs Ps complaint but wasnt 
persuaded Al Rayan Bank had acted unfairly. On behalf of the estate of Mrs P, Mr P asked 
to appeal, and said his complaint revolves around the steps Al Rayan Bank says it needs to 
take to establish his identity. Mr P also said hed been able to establish his official role as 
executor which should show Al Rayan Bank he was entitled to act. 
Mr P said the list of individuals who can certify identification is restrictive and should include 
doctors. Mr P said Al Rayan Banks decision to reject identification certified by The Post 
Office on the basis he didnt forward the front sheet is unreasonable. Mr P made various 
arguments concerning the certification process Al Rayan Bank uses and that he feels it is 
unreasonable. As Mr P has asked to appeal on behalf of the estate of Mrs P, the complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to ensure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
The focus of this complaint is the process Al Rayan Bank requires Mr P to go through to 
verify his identity. In short, Mr Ps told us he thinks the process is unusually complicated, 
comes at a cost to the estate of Mrs P and fails to reflect the way other businesses operate. I 
take Mr Ps point that Al Rayan Banks process is more rigid and complex than other 
businesses hes dealt with. But each business is free to decide how it operates, in line with 
its commercial discretion. I cant fairly say Al Rayan Bank has acted unreasonably or made 
mistakes solely on the basis it operates differently to other businesses Mr P dealt with in his 
role as executor. 
Mr Ps indicated Al Rayan Banks made it unnecessarily difficult to provide certified 
documents. But the information Ive seen shows Al Rayan Bank provides detailed and clear 
guidance concerning the types of document it requires and how those documents should be 
certified. The guidance includes a list of individuals or organisations that can certify 
documents. I note Mr P forwarded documents certified by a doctor. However, Al Rayan 
Banks list of individuals who can certify documents doesnt include doctors. Mr Ps told us 
doctors should be included, but Im satisfied thats a decision Al Rayan Bank is entitled to 
take. 
Mr P went on to get the documents required certified by The Post Office. Al Rayan Banks 
explained that as part of the process of certifying copies, The Post Office completes a front 
sheet that contains information about the documents it requires. But the front sheet wasnt 
forwarded along with the certified documents Mr P sent in. I appreciate Mr Ps growing 
frustration, but Im not persuaded it was an unreasonable request for Al Rayan Bank to 
make. As Mr P didnt forward the requested front sheet he was unable to complete the 
verification process. 
In response to the investigator, Mr Ps highlighted that the Financial Ombudsman Service 
has a different approach to verifying identity as we are willing to correspond without following 
the same steps as Al Rayan Bank. In my view, this shows that different organisations have 
different approaches to verifying identity. But theres no set list of checks or rules businesses 
have to follow when verifying identity. And Im satisfied Al Rayan Bank is entitled to decide 
what documents to accept and how they should be certified.
Mr P has also noted there is a cost to the estate of Mrs P for certifying documents. Mr P 
gave a figure of £41. I accept there is a cost. But I have to balance that against Al Rayan 
Banks requirement to verify its dealing with authorised individuals. Im satisfied its 
reasonable for Al Rayan Bank to request documents that are correctly certified  in line with 
its process.
I note everything Mr Ps told us, but I havent been persuaded that the process Al Rayan 
Bank has asked him to follow is unreasonable or unfairly complicated. The guidance Al 
Rayan Bank provides sets out the types of documents it can accept, who can certify them and how they should be certified. Whilst I note that doctors are on the list of authorised 
professions, Im satisfied there are reasonable alternatives available. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P as I can see how strongly he feels in this matter but I havent 
been persuaded that Al Rayan Bank has treated the estate of Mrs P unfairly. Im satisfied the 
certification process and requirements Al Rayan Bank has set out are reasonable.  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold the estate of Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs P 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman