DRN-3521185
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc provided him with credit which he feels wasnt
affordable for him at that time.
What happened
In April 2016, Mr M applied to HSBC for a new credit account with an £8,000 credit limit.
After considering Mr Ms application, HSBC approved Mr M for a new credit account, but
with a smaller credit limit of £2,000. The credit account was opened in May 2016.
In March 2021, Mr M raised a complaint with HSBC because he felt that he hadnt been able
to afford the credit that HSBC had approved him for in 2016, and that this should have been
apparent to HSBC, had they undertaken checks into his financial position before approving
him for that credit.
HSBC looked at Mr Ms complaint. They confirmed that they had undertaken checks into Mr
Ms financial position as part of the application assessment process and that thered been
nothing resulting from these checks that they felt should have given them reasonable cause
to suspect that Mr M might not be able to afford the credit account he was approved for.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that the information about Mr Ms
financial position which would have been available to HSBC at the time of the application
was such that HSBC should have concluded from that information that the provision of new
credit to Mr M at that time would likely not be affordable for him. Because of this, our
investigator recommended that this complaint be upheld in Mr Ms favour on that basis.
HSBC didnt agree with the recommendation put forward by our investigator, so the matter
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 May 2022 as follows:
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how 
much and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before 
approving a customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of 
credit available to a customer on an existing line of credit, the business would 
undertake reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that any credit being 
offered to a customer is affordable for that customer at that time.
HSBC believe that they did that here, and note that at the time of the application they 
took information from Mr M directly about his employment status and annual income, 
as well as obtained information about Mr M from a credit reference agency so as to 
get a better understanding of his wider financial position. And HSBC contend that 
there was nothing resulting from that information that they feel should have given 
them any reasonable cause to believe that Mr M might not be able to afford the credit 
he was subsequently approved for.
At the point of application, Mr M informed HSBC that he was self-employed with a 
gross annual income of approximately £18,000. Unfortunately, its not clear from the 
information provided by HSBC what HSBC determined Mr Ms level of existing debt 
to be at that time, but it is notable that HSBC referred to Mr M as having a high debt 
to income ratio and that Mr Ms credit account application was referred to an 
underwriter for further assessment. This led to Mr M not being offered a credit 
account with a credit limit of £8,000 as hed applied for, but instead being offered a 
credit account with a lower credit limit of £2,000.
At first glance, this seems reasonable to me. Its notable that HSBC had identified Mr 
M as having existing credit commitments at that time, and so it seems likely that 
further credit of £8000  which taken on its own would have been a credit facility of 
nearly 45% of Mr Ms declared annual income  wouldnt have been sustainable or 
affordable for Mr M. And it therefore makes sense that HSBC would offer Mr M a 
lower amount of available credit, such that his total debt to annual income ratio  
even in consideration of this new amount of credit  wasnt likely to become 
unmanageable for him.
Having reviewed Mr Ms credit file, I can see that Mr M had two other active credit 
accounts and another active loan account at that time, as well as an older credit 
account and loan account that were both closed at the time of the application to 
HSBC.
The existing loan had started in June 2016 and was for a total balance of £9,540 
repaid over 60 months in instalments of £159. This meant that at the time that HSBC 
assessed Mr Ms application, eleven instalments had been paid, and Mr Ms credit 
file confirms that these were repaid without incident. This meant that at the time of 
the HSBC application, Mr M had a balance of approximately £7,780 still outstanding 
on that loan.
The credit limits and balances of the two active credit accounts at the time of the 
HSBC application cant be ascertained, but its notable that Mr Ms credit file confirms 
that both credit accounts were being maintained by Mr M without apparent incident, 
with no record of missed or late payments at any time during the recent history of 
those accounts.
Mr M also held two current accounts at that time, and these accounts also appear to 
have been maintained without significant incident, with one account holding a 
relatively healthy balance in the months leading up the credit application, and the 
other account holding a lower balance and occasionally being maintained within the 
agreed overdraft limit, but never exceeding the agreed overdraft limit.
Considering this information, I feel that it supports HSBCs position that Mr Ms 
financial position at the time of the credit account application was such that Mr M 
couldnt reasonably afford the £8,000 new line of credit that hed applied for, but that 
he would in all likelihood be able to afford a credit account with a lower credit limit of 
£2,000, such as HSBC subsequently issued to him.
However, its also notable from Mr Ms credit file that he did apply for, and was 
approved for, another loan and credit account from different credit providers at a similar time to when he applied for this HSBC credit account. And Mr Ms credit file 
confirm that both the new loan and credit account were both opened in April 2016, 
which was before HSBC approved and opened the new HSBC credit account for Mr 
M in May 2016.
Furthermore, this other new loan and credit account amounted to approximately 
£10,000 of further credit, which if taken into account alongside Mr Ms other existing 
credit, as outlined above, would strongly suggest that any further credit provided to 
Mr M by HSBC wouldnt have reasonably been affordable for him at that time.
HSBC say that this other new loan and credit account werent visible to them at the 
time that they conducted the creditworthiness assessment for Mr M, and note that 
credit files are generally only updated on a monthly basis, meaning that its likely that 
these accounts hadnt updated onto Mr Ms credit file at the time that they assessed 
it.
This seems reasonable to me, especially given that HSBCs initial assessment is 
shown to have taken place on 19 April 2016, which was before the other new credit 
account was opened on 30 April 2016 and not long after the new loan was opened 
on 5 April 2016.
Additionally, HSBC have confirmed that their assessment took account of six active
accounts, comprising of mortgages, current accounts, loans, and credit cards.
 
As explained above, the existing credit commitments that Im satisfied would have 
been visible to HSBC at the time of the application consisted of two credit accounts 
and a loan. Additionally, as also explained above, Mr M had two current accounts at 
that time, and his credit file also confirms that he held a mortgage. This equates to 
the six active accounts HSBC assessed, and I feel that this in all likelihood confirms 
that the recently opened new loan and other new credit account werent visible to 
HSBC at the time of the creditworthiness assessment.
Given that HSBC could only have conducted their creditworthiness assessment on 
the basis of the information that was available to them, and given that, as explained 
above, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for HSBC to have provided a credit 
account with a £2,000 credit limit to Mr M on the basis of that available information  
which I feel in all likelihood didnt include the other new loan and new credit account 
 it follows that I dont feel that HSBC have acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Mr M by providing him with the credit that they did here.
It therefore follows that my provisional decision here will be that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or instructing HSBC to take any further action at this time.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr M and HSBC the opportunity to provide any 
comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision.
Mr M responded to my provisional decision letter and explained that he feels that HSBC 
should have asked to review his current account statements as part of any credit affordability 
assessment they undertook, especially given that his application for credit was referred 
internally by HSBC for an underwriter to consider, which Mr M feels is confirmation that 
HSBC considered his application as being potentially problematic. Furthermore, Mr M also explained that he feels that had HSBC considered his current 
account statements, it would have been apparent from those statements that his financial 
position was such that he couldnt in all likelihood afford any further credit at that time.
I can appreciate Mr Ms position here, but I dont feel that HSBC should have necessarily 
asked to review Mr Ms current account statements when considering his application as     
Mr M contends here.
One reason I say this is because in 2018 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) amended 
the rules about creditworthiness assessments to include that credit providers had to assess 
whether the provision of credit to a consumer was sustainable and affordable for that 
consumer. Previous to this amendment  as Mr Ms application was  the requirement was 
only that the credit provider assess whether the consumer was likely to be able to pay the 
monthly payments that may become due on that credit, and didnt include whether it would 
be sustainably affordable for a consumer to be able to make such payments.
As previously explained, Mr Ms credit file  which HSBC have confirmed that they 
considered as part of their creditworthiness assessment  includes two current accounts, 
one of which maintained a healthy ongoing balance. As such, I continue to feel that it was 
reasonable for HSBC, in consideration of all the information available to them at that time, to 
have concluded that Mr M would, in all likelihood, have been able to meet the ongoing 
monthly payments required on the new account with a £2,000 credit limit.
Indeed, HSBC have confirmed to this service that they assessed Mr M as being able to 
reasonably afford a higher credit limit of more than twice the £2,000 limit that they 
subsequently offered (but below the £8,000 limit that Mr M applied for) and that they offered 
the £2,000 credit limit to Mr M as an extra layer of assurance that Mr M would be able to 
afford that credit amount.
All of which means that I continue to feel that it wasnt incumbent on HSBC to have asked to 
review Mr Ms current account statements as part of their creditworthiness assessment, and 
that Im satisfied there was sufficient information available to HSBC from the information they 
gathered from both Mr M and the credit reference agency to enable them to make a fair and 
reasonable creditworthiness assessment  as per the creditworthiness assessment 
requirements in place at that time  without the need for further, more detailed information 
from Mr M.
While I appreciate that Mr M may continue to disagree, it also remains the case that I feel it 
was reasonable for HSBC to have offered the new credit account with a £2,000 credit limit to 
Mr M following that creditworthiness assessment, for the reasons explained above and in my 
earlier provisional decision letter.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr M was wanting, but while Ive taken onboard 
his response to my provisional decision, I continue to feel that HSBC didnt act unfairly 
towards Mr M by providing him with the new credit account that they did here, and it follows 
from this that my final decision will be that I wont be upholding this complaint. I hope that   
Mr M will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I 
have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman