DRN-2432167
The complaint
A, a business, complains that Paymentsense Limited mis-sold an agreement to it as it did 
not receive next day settlement of payments as promised and there were additional charges.
What happened
A met with a representative of Paymentsense and signed an agreement for payment 
processing and terminal hire. It says that it expected to receive settlement for card payments 
the next day. But that this was not happening. And it also considered that there were 
charges being applied that it had not been told about.
Paymentsense did not agree that a mistake had been made. A had been told at the time of 
sale that next day settlement would not be available. And because such a high proportion of 
its payments were taken when the card was not present this would continue to be the 
position. It said that to leave the agreement A would be due to pay the remaining terminal 
rental payments  then at £420 plus VAT - and an early closure fee of £120 plus VAT to 
leave the merchant contract. But it said it would waive the merchant contract fee and the 
notice period for its mail or telephone order (MOTO) account. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and all the fees and any exit 
payments be refunded, and A released from the agreements. She said it was hard to 
evidence what had been said in a face to face meeting. Here the owner of A had raised 
questions about the next day settlement of payments with the representative very soon after 
the agreement was signed. And the representative did not address this, and it was several 
months before A was told that next day settlements would not be offered. She did not think 
that A would have entered into the agreement unless this settlement term had been 
available. Our investigator also did not think that the further issue with the level of cardholder 
not present transactions from A was likely explored at the time of sale.
Paymentsense did not agree. It relied on a system note made at the time which said that A 
had been told that it would not receive next day settlement and that it had agreed to this. 
And it also said that the documentation had recorded that 95% of As payments using the 
terminal would be cardholder present ones. This was not the pattern and A had a separate 
MOTO agreement to process payments when the card was not present, and which 
suggested that they were discussed. Had it processed the payments using this account they 
would have been settled more quickly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the copies of the agreement documents that A signed on 11 December 2019. 
Paymentsense has provided copies of two system notes from the next day. The first says 
that A as a merchant did not qualify for next day settlement due to its type of business. And 
the next later that day that the seller had notified the merchant and that it is happy to 
proceed.
I think I can reasonably infer from these notes that the original agreement was sold as A 
states on the basis that it would receive next day settlement. And that the representative had 
told A this  otherwise it wouldnt have needed to be clarified and documented. There is no 
evidence to support that this was clarified with A other than a one-line file note. And I find it 
highly unlikely A would have agreed to such a material change in terms the day after signing 
the agreement. 
That finding in my view is supported by A then writing to the representative on 8 January 
2020 asking why a test payment had not been settled the next day. Id have expected the 
representative to respond quickly if that hadnt been the agreement. Instead he said nothing 
and when chased about this in March 2020 said he would refer it. This then led as I 
understand it to Paymentsense reviewing the position again and coming up with the further 
reason for not offering next day settlement  the number of card not present transactions. I 
find that explanation an incomplete one. It seems that based on what Paymentsense says 
this could have been overcome at least in part by using the MOTO account. But the main 
point is that I consider A only took the agreement on the basis it could have next day 
settlement and I dont accept it agreed to that being altered even if only potentially for a few 
months.
Putting things right
I find that the agreement was mis-sold, and I dont consider A should be held to it. While it 
seems A processed payments until mid-May 2020 when it switched provider again and so 
there were some related charges I find that these should not fairly be incurred given the 
inconvenience resulting from the mis-sale and the slower settlement terms than A agreed to. 
Given there will now be no cost to A I dont need to make a finding on its other complaint 
points about the transparency of some charges to resolve things in the way it wants. If A still 
has the terminal then it should allow Paymentsense to arrange to collect this.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Paymentsense Limited to:
- Release A from all contractual commitments at no cost and cancel any outstanding 
charges on the basis A allows Paymentsense to collect any equipment it still holds.
- Refund all charges and fees that A has paid to date.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman