DRN-1807685
The complaint
Mr B complains on behalf of his company that I will refer to as B, that AXA Insurance UK Plc 
unfairly declined Bs claim following a theft.
Mr B has been represented by a third party throughout this complaint. For eases of reading 
any references to Mr B include the actions of his representative. 
What happened
Mr B was the sole trader for B, a company that provides audio equipment for hire. B had a 
commercial insurance policy with AXA.
In March 2019 B received a hire request for some equipment to be delivered to a recording 
studio for an afternoon. The request was accepted, and payment taken. 
Mr B delivered the equipment to the venue on the day. While he was there he checked the 
identification and utility bill of the hirer and they matched the details previously given. 
Later that day Mr B was contacted by a staff member from the venue who told him that 
shortly after he had delivered the equipment, a second person had arrived and the two of 
them had loaded the equipment into a car and left. They had told the staff member they 
would return later that day but hadnt.
Mr B reported the theft to the police and made a claim on Bs insurance.
AXA declined Bs claim. It said that the policy requires B to make and retain a copy of the 
documents presented as identification. And as B hadnt done this it hadnt complied with the 
policy conditions, so the claim wouldnt be covered. 
Mr B didnt think this was fair. He said he would usually take a photo on his phone, but it had 
no battery, so he wasnt able to make a copy. He said he had checked the ID and it matched 
the details he had already, so he didnt think taking a photo of the documents would have 
stopped the theft. He said therefore the term wasnt material to the loss so the claim should 
be covered. He made a complaint to AXA.
AXA didnt uphold his complaint. It said that the policy condition is there in order to deter 
thieves and it thought this may have prevented the theft on this occasion. So it said it was 
material to the claim. It therefore said as B hadnt complied with the term it was right to 
decline the claim.
Mr B didnt think this was fair and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
said that the police had said that the documents the person presented to B were likely false 
as they hadnt been able to trace them. So she didnt think it would have deterred the thief if 
B had retained a copy of the ID.
AXA didnt agree. It said it thought the thief would be more likely to go to a different company 
if they had known a photo would be taken of the ID when hiring from B. And therefore 
maintained that the fact B hadnt complied with the condition was material to the claim. AXA 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has declined Bs claim because it says Mr B didnt comply with the conditions of the 
policy. Under the section covering fraudulent hire, the policy states as follows:
We will cover you for damage to property whilst hired out provided that the terms of any 
such hirings hold the hirer responsible for all damage.
You must comply with the following condition to have the full protection of your 
policy. For all hires, you must
1 retain a signed copy of the hire agreement
2 obtain photo-identity in form of a UK driving licence or passport take copies and retain
3 seek proof of identity in the form of letter headed stationery or a utility bill a copy of which 
must be retained.
AXA says that Mr B didnt comply with points two and three as he didnt make and retain 
copies of the hirers ID.
Mr B doesnt dispute that he didnt comply with these conditions. Nor does he dispute 
knowledge of the conditions. However he says that these conditions arent material to the 
incident he is claiming for, so it isnt fair for AXA to decline his claim based on this.
The Insurance Act 2015 lays out how insurers must handle a claim when a policy condition 
hasnt been complied with. The relevant section states as follows:
(2)  If a loss occurs, and the term has not been complied with, the insurer may not rely on 
the non-compliance to exclude, limit or discharge its liability under the contract for the loss if 
the insured satisfies subsection (3).
(3)  The insured satisfies this subsection if it shows that the non-compliance with the term 
could not have increased the risk of the loss which actually occurred in the circumstances in 
which it occurred.
So in order to decide if AXA has acted in accordance with this, and therefore treated B fairly 
in declining its claim, I need to consider whether the fact Mr B didnt make a copy of the 
hirers ID documents increased the risk of the theft occurring.
AXA has said that it thinks that if the hirer had known that copies would be taken of the ID 
documents, they would have gone to a different hire company instead to avoid this. Ive 
considered this and I dont agree. Mr B says that the person hiring the equipment presented 
the requested ID documents when he dropped the equipment at the venue. So he would 
have been informed that these would be required when he contacted B to hire it. And this 
didnt put him off going ahead with the hire and subsequent theft. If he had concerns around 
presenting ID, I think this would be the stage he would be put off. I dont think the additional 
measure of making a copy of it would be likely to add to that.
Further, after some enquiries, the police have since concluded that the details given by the 
hirer were false. So the documents presented as ID would have been false too. As these wouldnt be linked to the hirers actual identity  only his fabricated one  I cant see how 
Mr B making a copy of the documents would have any bearing on his decision to carry out 
the theft.
AXA has said that although Mr B says he checked the hirers ID documents, there isnt any 
proof that he did. It says it is most likely that B didnt request the documents at all. Although I 
agree it isnt possible to be certain, I think it is most likely that Mr B did check the documents. 
Mr B has explained that it is part of Bs normal process that they will always request photo 
and address ID. Further, it states on Bs website: We will require two forms of address 
verification (mobile phone bills are not accepted) and photo ID So I am persuaded that 
this is something B requests for all bookings. And therefore, that it is most likely that Mr B did 
request and check the documents.
For these reasons, although I can see that B didnt comply with all policy conditions in the 
fraudulent hire section of the policy, I dont think this non-compliance was material to Bs 
loss. So I dont think that AXA has acted fairly, or inline with the Insurance Act, by declining 
Bs claim. I will therefore require AXA to pay Bs claim for the stolen equipment less the 
policy excess. 
I will also require AXA to pay B 8% simple interest on the settlement amount from the date of 
the loss until the date the payment is made.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
 Pay Bs claim for the stolen equipment, less the policy excess.
 Pay 8% simple interest on the amount from the date of the loss until the date the payment 
is made.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman