DRN-3178743
The complaint
Mr M complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr M is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around October 2015, Mr M was contacted by a representative of a company Ill 
call P, to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr M decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a ten-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In July 2020 the CMC made a claim on Mr Ms behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr M to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
The financial benefits from the system would make it a self-funding system which 
would pay for itself through the income and savings it would generate.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr M. But Shawbrook offered £200 compensation by way of apologising 
for the inconvenience caused by the delay in its response to the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented the 
system to Mr M and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
It didnt accept that the quote had formed an important part of the sales process or 
that Mr M had the opportunity to read it and see the relevant parts of it. 
Mr M had relied on the verbal representations during the sale. 
It questioned whether the quote had actually been sent to Mr M after the sale took 
place, or whether hed have paid much attention to it even if it was, as the sale had 
already been agreed based on the verbal representations.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr M paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr M could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr M and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr Ms recollection of the sale.
The representative continues to question whether the quotation document formed a central 
part of the sales process with P when Mr M agreed to enter into the contract for the system. I 
have carefully considered the points made by the representative along with those made by 
Shawbrook on behalf of P. Having done so, I remain satisfied that the quotation did form a 
central part of the sales process when Mr M agreed to enter into the contract.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
Mr M has said that the cost of the system was documented as £7,900.00. He has said that 
this was done to mislead him as this figure did not include any interest associated with the 
loan so hid the true cost of the system, £12,681.60.
Im satisfied that the quote provided to Mr M makes it clear that the cost of the system is 
£7,900.00. This is supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the cash price of the system was £7,900.00. The total amount of credit is £7,900.00 and goes on to show that 
the total amount payable would be £12,681.60.
And as the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, 
as set out in the table below, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £7,900.00, it would cost 
Mr M more than this as he had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan.
FIT payments
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr M could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr M could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £344.77.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr M could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £270.30 and the combined income and savings in 
year one is shown as £615.07. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months because this 
is the length of the loan that Mr M entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 120 monthly payments of £103.96 (this is slightly lower than the actual loan 
repayment because Mr M chose to defer his initial payment for three months, which 
extended the term of the loan, increased the total interest payable and therefore the monthly 
repayment). 
For each year of the ten-year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. 
It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the assumed monthly loan 
repayment of £103.96, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the 
system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr M could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way 
of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be sufficient to cover the monthly loan 
repayments at any point during the loan. Therefore, Im not satisfied that he was told that the 
monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr M that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding at any point 
during the ten-year term of the loan. However, I do accept that Mr M was told by P that the 
system would be self-funding over a longer period of time. 
The Estimated performance over 20 years page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 15 the overall benefits that Mr M could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr M that the system would pay for itself by 
year 15 when taking the ten-year loan, as supported by the table above. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the 
contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr M. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 2,314 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr Ms FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 2,698 kWh per year over the first three years. This is more than estimated by P at 
the point of sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2015 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
explain why Mr M hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been expecting 
from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling 
predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has been 
correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2005 to 2014. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr M couldve 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr M entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr M to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
Shawbrooks has offered £200 compensation due to the delay in its response to the 
complaint, and I have decided not to make any additional award on top of this. If it hasnt 
already sent this compensation to Mr M, then Shawbrook should do so now. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman