DRN-2965192
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill call R, complains Barclays Bank UK PLC declined its 
application for a Bounce Back Loan.
 
Rs director, Mr A, brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
In May 2020, R applied for a Bounce Back Loan. Barclays declined the application, it said it 
had a regulatory requirement to carry out certain checks prior to lending. The bank explained 
that R had failed those checks. So, it didnt meet the eligibility criteria.
 
In June, Rs directorship changed. After this, the current director, Mr A, reapplied on behalf 
of R for a Bounce Back Loan several times. But, each time, Barclays continued to decline 
Rs applications because it didnt meet the eligibility criteria. 
 
Mr A doesnt think Barclays acted fairly when it declined Rs applications. And he felt the 
bank didnt complete the change of Rs directors quickly enough  which prevented it from 
making a successful application. When he complained, the bank reiterated that R had failed 
the regulatory checks it was required to carry out. So, Mr A brought Rs complaint to our 
service.
 
One of our investigators looked into things, but he didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. In summary, he said:
Rs applications had failed checks that Barclays was required to carry out under the 
rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. Looking at the information on which 
Barclays had based its decision, he thought it had acted reasonably.
Barclays wasnt obliged to share any more information with Mr A about its decision 
than it already had.
Barclays processed the mandate to change Rs directors, and the bank had still 
reached a reasonable decision to decline its applications.  
Mr A didnt accept our investigators view, so Rs complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
The Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules set out that the decision to lend ultimately lied with the 
lender  and in reaching that decision, there were certain checks that had to be carried out 
before a loan was provided. In short, applications were subject to customer fraud, anti-
money laundering and Know Your Customer checks. These checks are an important legal 
and regulatory requirement, which were necessary under the Scheme rules.
 
Barclays declined Rs applications because it failed these checks. Having reviewed the 
information on which the banks decisions was based, I think they were reasonable. I know 
Mr A later informed Barclays that R was able to obtain a Bounce Back Loan elsewhere, but 
this doesnt mean the banks decision was wrong or unreasonable at the time.
Ive considered what Mr A has said about how quickly Barclays handled the change in Rs 
directorship. But from what Ive seen, the bank processed the mandate to change directors 
in a reasonable timeframe. Particularly if I keep in mind the volume of requests Barclays was 
dealing with in unprecedented circumstances.
 
Moreover, Ive not seen that the bank misled Mr A in any way. At no point did it advise him 
that any of Rs applications were guaranteed to be successful. While Im aware Mr A wants 
to know why Rs applications were declined, Im satisfied the bank reasonably decided that 
R wasnt eligible  and its not required to share any more detail about the reasons for this 
than it already has.
 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong in how it handled 
Rs applications for a Bounce Back Loan. So, Im not requiring it to do anything to settle this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman