DRN-3811389
The complaint
Mr G complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) unfairly applied a default to his credit 
file. He would like this removed, and compensation for the distress and inconvenience.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here, instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Mr G found it distressing when Vanquis put a default on his credit file 
particularly as he told us at the time he was trying to set up a payment plan. Looking 
at Mr Gs account history it seems his account fell into arears when he didnt make 
payments over several months in 2022 at which point Vanquis issued the Notice of 
Default (NOD). The NOD gave Mr G 28 days to contact Vanquis to resolve the 
arrears on his account,  but as he didnt do so Vanquis  defaulted the account. I cant 
say Vanquis were wrong to do this, the account had been in arrears for some months 
and no arrangement agreed to resolve this.
Mr G has also told us the default came as a surprise to him as he wasnt warned 
about it. I have seen 4 letters Vanquis sent Mr G between April and May 2022 
advising him his account was in arrears and what he needed to do. These were 
correctly addressed so I dont know why Mr G didnt get them but did get the NOD 
letter. Vanquis has also evidenced that it called and sent text messages  to  Mr G 
numerous times in April and May 2022. So, I cant agree what Vanquis didnt make 
Mr G aware of the issues with his account prior to the default being placed on his 
credit file.
Mr G has told us he was trying to come to an agreement with Vanquis. We do expect 
businesses to respond positively and sympathetically to consumers when in financial 
difficulties, But I havent seen any evidence that Mr G made Vanquis aware he was 
having financial problems. 
Vanquis has given us copies of two telephone calls Mr G had with Vanquis in May 
2022 which were  before it applied the default to his credit file. In the first call Mr G 
queried why his payment hasnt gone through. It seems the issue was that Vanquis 
didnt have the correct bank details as Mr G had closed one of his accounts. Mr G 
declined Vanquis offer to set up a new direct debit saying he would call the following 
week to make a payment and set up the direct debit at that point. At no point did Mr 
G say he was having financial problems. In this call Vanquis refunded late payment 
fees of £25.
In the second call Vanquis asked Mr G if he was having financial problems but he 
said he wasnt .Vanquis offered to put Mr G onto a repayment plan but didnt do so 
as the amount per month Mr G said he could pa y (£30) was roughly the equivalent 
of his monthly minimum payments.  I dont think it was unreasonable of Vanquis not 
to set up a repayment plan as from what  Mr G said he could cover the minimum 
payments. Vanquis asked Mr G if he could repay the arrears and then return to 
normal monthly payments. Vanquis reached an agreement that  Mr G paid half of the 
arrears (£57)  by 24 June 2022 and Vanquis wrote off the remaining half. I think 
Vanquis made reasonable attempts to investigate Mr Gs circumstances and to help 
him to get his account back on track.
I cant reasonably ask Vanquis to remove the default from Mr Gs credit file as I think 
it provided sufficient warning of the default and engaged with Mr G to agree a way 
forward with his arrears. But as no payments were made to the account I dont think it 
was unreasonable of Vanquis to go ahead with putting the default on the credit file.
I have noted Vanquis paid Mr G £25 compensation for not returning a phone call 
which I think was reasonable. But as I havent found Vanquis to have been 
unreasonable in its actions I dont feel there are grounds to ask it to pay any further 
compensation as Mr G would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman