DRN-3013749
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage repayment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy in 1992.
The mortgage was in joint names, but the policy only covered Mr H.
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. I know this will be 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs H, so Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs H say that they werent given a choice in taking out the MPPI policy  and that 
they were told they had to take it out in order to get the mortgage. But they havent provided 
much detail about why this was  or any evidence to support what they have said  but I 
wouldnt expect them to, given that the MPPI was sold 30 years ago.
Santander also doesnt have any paperwork from the time that the sale took place  but this 
isnt unusual given the time that has passed, and businesses arent required to keep records 
indefinitely.
Because of this, I dont have enough to say that Mr and Mrs H werent given a choice in 
taking out the MPPI, and I cant uphold their complaint for this reason.
Santander recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs H  which means that it needed to take 
extra steps to make sure that the MPPI was suitable for them, and it seems to have been 
right for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. 
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But Mr H doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about their circumstances it looks like the 
policy couldve been useful to them. For example  Mr H didnt have any health issues that 
would be excluded from the cover, and the policy provided a benefit which was in excess of 
the cover Mr and Mrs H already had in place. So, I dont think better information wouldve 
stopped them buying it. 
Ive taken into account all of Mr and Mrs H s comments, but these points dont change my 
conclusion.
Other considerations
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin v 
Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the 
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to 
follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes need 
to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies. 
The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission gave rise 
to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit share to be 
more than 50% of the cost of the policy.
I can see that Santander has paid back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs H 
because: 
When the policy was sold, Santander expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H 
about that. Because Santander didnt tell Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
I understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman