DRN-3571493
The complaint
Miss C complains that Vitality Health Limited has turned down a claim she made on a private 
medical insurance policy.
What happened
Miss C is insured under her employers private medical insurance policy. In September 
2021, she began to experience breathing difficulties and so she saw a consultant surgeon, 
who Ill call Mr Y. She booked surgery to take place on 20 January 2022 and paid a deposit 
to lock-in the surgical date. It appears that shed already set-up a payment plan to spread 
the costs of the surgery.
So on 6 December 2021, Miss C called Vitality to set-up a claim. During the call, the call 
handler told Miss C that Mr Y was recognised by Vitality. While Miss C didnt know where the 
surgery was going to take place, the call handler told her that if the surgery took place in a 
facility which wasnt on her list, she would be liable to pay 40% of the costs. The call 
handler told Miss C to call back once she knew where the surgery would be carried out.
A few weeks later, Miss C let Vitality know that the surgery was scheduled to take place in a 
facility Ill call H. Vitality told Miss C that H wasnt a facility it covered and that therefore, it 
wouldnt cover any costs she incurred if she underwent surgery in it. Vitality provided Miss C 
with details of a hospital it did recognise and from which Mr Y also worked. It suggested that 
she rearrange the surgery to take place in that facility.
Miss C was unhappy with Vitalitys position. She said shed been assured that Vitality would 
cover at least 60% of her treatment costs. She underwent treatment as planned at H in 
January 2022. And she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Miss Cs complaint should be upheld. He felt the policy terms 
made it clear that Vitality would only cover claims if treatment took place at a facility on a 
policyholders list unless it had agreed otherwise in advance. He listened to the call 
between Miss C and Vitality and he acknowledged that the call handler had led Miss C to 
believe that Vitality would pay at least 60% of any treatment costs. However, he noted that at 
the time of the call, Miss C didnt know where the surgery was taking place. And Miss C had 
already booked and paid for her surgery ahead of making the call. So while he accepted that 
Miss C had been given misinformation during the call, he didnt think it had caused Miss C to 
lose out. He added that Vitality had suggested that Miss C could reschedule the surgery to a 
recognised hospital, but that shed chosen not to do so. He concluded itd been fair for 
Vitality to turn down the claim.
Miss C disagreed. She maintained that the policy terms stated that Vitality would pay 60% of 
her costs. She thought it was irrelevant that Vitality had asked to reschedule the surgery, as 
she couldnt control where Mr Y worked from. Shed suffered from severe respiratory issues 
and shed expected Vitality to help her to cover the significant expense.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Miss C, I think it was fair for Vitality to turn 
down her claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Miss Cs policy and the circumstances of her claim, to decide whether Vitality 
treated her fairly.
In my view, there are two key issues for me to decide. First, is Miss Cs claim covered by the 
terms of her policy? And second, did Vitality provide Miss C with misinformation which has 
caused her to lose out? Ill consider each issue in turn.
Is Miss Cs claim covered by the policy terms?
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Miss Cs 
contract with Vitality. Page seven of the policy says:
Which hospitals are eligible under your plan?
If you have one of our hospital list options, you should only go to a hospital on your chosen 
list, as you're only covered in full for treatment at those hospitals. If you go to a hospital 
that's not on your list, then you'll have to pay 40% of the costs of your treatment (excluding 
your consultants' fees.
Vitality has defined what it means by a hospital on page 42, within the definitions section of 
the contract. This states a hospital is:
Any private hospital, or private wing of an NHS hospital, that is included on your hospital list, 
or which we have agreed in advance you can attend.
Page 31 of the policy sets out claims conditions which apply to all claims. This list includes 
the following terms:
Before proceeding with any treatment, you must ensure that the hospital is eligible on your 
plan, the consultant or therapist is recognised by us, and that you have checked your cover 
and understand any payments you will need to make yourself.
Unless specifically confirmed by us, you may only use the hospitals eligible under your plan.
I think the policy terms make it clear that Vitality will only pay costs for treatment at a hospital 
which is on a policyholders list and/or which it has agreed to cover in advance. I think too 
that the terms make it clear that a policyholder needs to check in advance that the hospital is 
eligible under the terms of their plan. And I dont think the terms of the contract indicate that 
Vitality will pay 60% of the treatment costs regardless of where treatment takes place. 
Instead, the terms refer to hospitals  which as Ive set out above, Vitality has clearly 
defined.  
In Miss Cs case, theres no dispute that Mr Y was a consultant who was recognised by 
Vitality. And had Miss Cs treatment taken place at a facility which was included on Miss Cs 
list, or which was recognised by Vitality, then her claim would have been covered, at least in part.
However, H was neither on Miss Cs list and nor was it a facility which Vitality recognised. 
While Miss C checked whether Mr Y was a recognised consultant, she didnt check in 
advance whether H was a recognised facility. And therefore, Vitality didnt agree in advance 
that Miss C could attend it. As such then, I dont think H fell within Vitalitys definition of a 
hospital. Once Vitality learned that Miss Cs treatment was booked at H, it let her know that it 
wasnt prepared to pay for any treatment there. Id reassure Miss C that having checked the 
evidence Vitality has provided, H isnt included on its recognised listings.
I think the totality of the policy terms make it clear enough that if a policyholder plans to have 
treatment off-list, then claims will only be covered if Vitality authorises that treatment in 
advance. In these circumstances, as Miss C didnt check whether treatment at H would be 
covered and nor did Vitality authorise her surgery at that facility, I find it was fair for Vitality to 
conclude that her claim wasnt covered by the policy terms.
Did Vitality provide Miss C with misleading information which caused her to lose out?
Like our investigator, Ive listened carefully to the call between Miss C and Vitality on 6 
December 2021. And I agree that the call handler did wrongly tell Miss C that shed be liable 
for paying 40% of the costs of any treatment which took place off-list. As Ive explained, this 
isnt the case if a facility isnt recognised. Given I think Vitality did provide misleading 
information to Miss C, Ive next considered whether this led to take any action she wouldnt 
otherwise have done and accordingly. whether that action caused her to lose out.
Thinking about everything, I dont think I could fairly find that Miss C has detrimentally relied 
on Vitalitys misinformation or suffered an avoidable financial loss as a result. I say that 
because its clear from the call that by the time Miss C called Vitality, she had already 
arranged and partially paid for her treatment with Mr Y and had arranged a payment plan for 
the remainder of the costs. It doesnt appear that she organised treatment as a result of the 
information she was given on the call. So I think shed already incurred financial costs at this 
point which wouldnt have been covered irrespective of what took place during the call. 
And once Vitality was made aware that Miss C intended to have treatment at H, it let her 
know that this wouldnt be covered around four weeks before the surgery was due to take 
place. It suggested that she should try and rearrange the surgery with Mr Y so that it could 
be carried out in a facility it did recognise and it gave her that facilitys details. In my view, 
this was a prompt and appropriate response from Vitality, which provided Miss C with an 
option to ensure that her claim would be paid. While I can understand why Miss C may not 
have been able to or wished to rearrange the surgery at another facility Mr Y worked from, 
this isnt something I can fairly hold Vitality responsible for. I think it gave her a reasonable 
choice about how to proceed, which wouldve meant that her claim wouldve been at least 
partially paid.
On that basis then, I dont think I could fairly find that Vitality provided Miss C with misleading 
information which caused her to suffer a financial loss.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Miss Cs position, I think Vitality acted fairly and 
reasonably when it turned down her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman