DRN-1738774
 
The complaint
Mr Vs complaint is about eight loans he took with Ferratum UK Ltd. He says these loans 
were unaffordable. 
What happened
The loans were taken out between June 2016 and February 2018. The amounts ranged 
between £150 and £500. At the time of writing this decision, loan 8 remains outstanding. 
Mr Vs complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators and they didnt think there was 
anything in the information Ferratum had asked Mr V to provide that should have prompted it 
to do more checks for loan 1 to 3. So, the adjudicator couldnt say Ferratum was wrong to 
have given these loans to Mr V. However, they did think that the loans from loan 4 onwards 
shouldnt have been lent as the adjudicator thought at this point Mr V was showing signs of 
struggling to manage his money. 
Ferratum accepted out adjudicators view. But Mr V disagreed because he didnt think 
Ferratums checks went far enough  and Ferratum should have realised he had other loans 
and was struggling financially. Mr V asked for the complaint to be reviewed, so it was passed 
to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ferratum needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr V could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Ferratum should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Ferratum was required to establish 
whether Mr V could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Vs complaint. Our adjudicator upheld loans 4 to 8. Ferratum 
agreed with our adjudicators assessment as did Mr V. As these loans are no longer in 
dispute, I wont make any further findings on them. 
That just leaves loans 1, 2 and 3 to consider. Mr V disagreed with the adjudicators view 
because he thought Ferratums checks didnt go far enough and it should have been aware 
that he was struggling financially. So, it shouldnt have lent to him.
Ferratum has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Mr V about his employment status and he confirmed he was 
employed and had a monthly income of £1,501. Ferratum says it also searched Mr Vs credit 
file and it has provided the results of its search. There werent any recent adverse entries 
like defaults or county court judgements (CCJs) recorded on it at the time the loan was taken 
out. 
So, I dont think Ferratum ought to have increased its checks before it lent to Mr V or not lent 
to him on this basis.   
Mr V borrowed all three loans within two months. So, he was very early on in his lending 
relationship with Ferratum. And the highest repayment would have appeared affordable 
based on the information he declared to Ferratum. And there wasnt anything in the 
information Mr V provided at the time which would have given Ferratum cause for concern, 
so I think it was reasonable of Ferratum to have relied on what Mr V gave it. 
I think these factors had an impact of what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
Ferratum to carry out. Given these, I think the checks Ferratum did before lending the loans 
went far enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake any more in-depth 
checks. I appreciate, from what Mr V has said, the information he declared to Ferratum at the time of 
the loans may not have been an accurate reflection of his financial circumstances. But I think 
Ferratum was entitled to rely on that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, 
and what Ferratum knew about Mr V, I wouldnt have expected Ferratum to verify the 
information Mr V gave it. This therefore means, I cant say that Ferratum has done 
something wrong in lending Mr V these loans. So, I wont be asking Ferratum to do any more 
than its already agreed to do. 
Im sorry to hear about Mr Vs financial difficulties and I appreciate that my findings are likely 
to disappoint him. But I hope my explanation will help him understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Putting things right
As a reminder this is what Ferratum has agreed to do with regards to loans 4 to 8;
As Ferratum has sold the outstanding debt, Ferratum should buy it back if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Ferratum cant buy the debt back, then Ferratum should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Ferratum should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr V towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
Ferratum has already refunded.
B) Ferratum should calculate 8% simple interest on the individual payments made by 
Mr V which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr V originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Ferratum should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the upheld 
outstanding loan, and treat any repayments made by Mr V as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on that loan. If this results in Mr V having made overpayments 
then Ferratum should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint 
is settled. Ferratum should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to 
step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this results in a surplus, 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr V. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Ferratum should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr V. Ferratum 
shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Ferratum has already written-
off.
E) Ferratum should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Vs credit file in relation 
to loans 4 to 7. The overall pattern of Mr Vs borrowing for loan means any information 
recorded about this loan is adverse, so Ferratum should remove loan 8 entirely from Mr Vs 
credit file. Ferratum does not have to remove the loan from Mr Vs credit file until it has been 
repaid, but Ferratum should still remove any adverse information recorded about the loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Ferratum UK Ltd to take off tax from this interest. Ferratum UK 
Ltd must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
Im partially upholding Mr Vs complaint. Ferratum UK Ltd should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman