DRN-3356960
The complaint
Mr W complains IG Markets Limited (IG) charged him 630 USD in commission for trading US 
shares. Hes unhappy because he feels IG didnt make it sufficiently clear that hed be 
charged a minimum of 15 USD per trade at the time he switched his currency conversion 
settings to manual.  
What happened
Mr W told us he changed the currency conversion settings to manual because he typically 
only trades on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). He said he only found out he was 
being charged 15 USD for each trade after a lengthy discussion with one of IGs live chat 
assistants. He said he wasnt warned at the time of changing the settings and feels that IG 
should have been clear about their charges. 
Therefore, Mr W contacted IG to complain about the charges in July 2021. IG responded to 
the complaint in September. They said the page where Mr W changed the settings was 
entitled currency transfer and it wouldnt have been reasonable to outline all the costs and 
charges which could have been included in this section. They felt the charges had been 
made reasonably clear through their website and in the customer agreement. 
The Investigator issued their view explaining why they felt IG hadnt done anything wrong. 
However, Mr W didnt agree with the Investigators findings. In summary, he said: 
- As someone who isnt a professional trader, he only knew he would be carrying out 
trades in USD and so when he saw the currency transfer page he questioned why he 
needed to worry about converting his USD back to GBP especially when there was a 
cost associated with this. He was only going to convert funds when he wanted to 
withdraw funds to his bank account. 
- The page only referenced the conversion rate not being worse than 0.5% if, on 
occasion, it was necessary for IG to make a manual conversion. 
- It did not state there would be a charge of 15 USD per trade and this was deliberately 
kept hidden in their terms and conditions and only to satisfy a legal requirement. He 
cannot agree IG operated fairly. 
- There should have been a warning in bold that switching to manual conversion may 
cost the client more money. But he was not warned about the potential losses and it 
was misleading. IG should give examples of the trades and costs involved.  
Moreover, he said the fees were hidden, encouraged and extortionate. He strongly feels he 
should be reimbursed for the fees associated with his trades. He asked why a client would 
choose to spend such an extortionate amount of money and what benefit it was to them. 
Additionally, he was concerned that the Investigator hadnt been able to see things from his 
position. 
As Mr W didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has said nowhere on the screen or menu system does it warn about the charge when 
changing the currency settings to manual. He says he understands he could navigate to a 
separate page and read the small print about the charges for this but that it wasnt clear 
when he was making his decision. I do fully appreciate his comments here and I agree it 
would have been helpful to have received a warning prior to making the changes. However, 
Im asked to decide whether IG made the charges fairly and reasonably clear. 
I note the page was about currency transfer of which it is reasonable to expect charges. For 
example, there was a cost associated with the instant conversion which also wasnt 
explained on the page. The only point made about charges on the page was that IG may 
have to make manual conversion on occasion, but it would be at a rate not worse than 0.5% 
from the current bid/offer price. So, I think it would be reasonable to conclude the charges 
associated with currency transfer would be detailed elsewhere and could be referenced prior 
to making changes to the way conversions were dealt with. 
I have seen the charges are accessible and clearly explained on IGs website. The 
commission and minimum charge were outlined here for clients who chose to convert their 
currency manually. Ive considered this and I think this was a reasonable place to navigate to 
in order to understand the associated charges prior to making the change.  
IG have also highlighted a quote from their customer agreement which I understand Mr W 
agreed when he initially engaged their services. Ive viewed a copy on IGs website. I can 
see under fees and commission they confirmed the charges would be available on their 
website. Again, this reference to the website persuades me that IG took sufficient steps to 
explain their charges. So, Im not able to conclude they did anything wrong here. 
I would also add that I understand from the parties Mr W made a series of trades over a 
monthly period. To be clear, Ive not seen a copy of the trading statements, but IG have 
explained they outlined the charge applied to each trade. I understand Mr W had access to 
this. Therefore, it seems there was an opportunity to spot the charges sooner. In any event, 
and as already explained, Im content the charges were made clear. 
Ive also considered Mr Ws other comments particularly about the benefit to the client of 
having this option. But Im not convinced IG have done anything wrong by making the 
manual conversion option available to their clients, and Im unable to say the charge itself is 
too high. This is for them, as the business, to set.
Also, I appreciate Mr W was concerned about the time it took for IG to respond to his 
concerns. He is entitled to a response regarding his queries about the charges and I 
appreciate he was unhappy. I can see IG apologised for not acknowledging the complaint 
and explained it was their error. Although Mr W waited longer than he expected, Im not 
convinced the time he waited extended beyond a reasonable period. 
Overall, Im satisfied IG made the costs associated with manual conversion reasonably 
clear. Whilst I appreciate the page where Mr W changed his settings doesnt appear to 
outline the charges, I think it would have been reasonable to have checked for costs and 
charges prior to altering the settings. And Im content they were fairly set out on IGs website 
with reference to them in the client agreement. Therefore, I wont be asking IG to do 
anything to put things right. However, I note IG have already made an offer of £150 to settle 
the complaint. Mr W should contact them directly if he now wishes to accept this. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint and I dont think IG Markets 
Limited need to do anything to settle the complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman