DRN-4017929
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Mortgage Lender Limited (TML) failed to notify him of its lending 
decision as quickly as it could and hes lost out as a result. 
What happened
Mr M made an application for mortgage through a broker to purchase a property. He was 
already living in the property as a tenant and was purchasing it from the owner at a 
discounted rate. He said this was explained to TML when the application was made, so it 
was aware from the outset that it was being purchased at a discounted rate.
The application was made in June 2022 when the broker submitted a full application to TML. 
In late August the broker asked that the valuation on the property be complete as soon as 
possible and this was received by TML on 31 August 2022. 
TML said it was at this point it became aware the property was being purchased at a 
discounted rate and this meant it was unable to provide the mortgage because it was outside 
of its lending criteria. It disputes that it was aware of this before the valuation was received 
and it let Mr M know on 8 September that it couldnt provide the mortgage hed applied for.
Mr M feels hes lost out because of the delays in this decision being provided. He feels it was 
made clear prior to the valuation that he was purchasing the property with a discount to the 
market rate and TML made a mistake when it failed to tell him this would be outside of its 
lending criteria sooner. He asked TML to refund the fees he paid for the mortgage 
application and to reimburse him for three months worth of rent payments incurred as a 
result of its delay.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said they didnt think TML had done anything 
wrong. He wasnt persuaded that it had been made clear to it previously that the property 
was being sold at a discount and he didnt think it was unreasonable for TML to take the time 
it did to organise the valuation of the property. 
TML relied on this valuation which showed a difference in the value of the property and 
purchase price. This was below the market value and the application was declined because 
this fell outside of its lending criteria.
Mr M disagreed with the outcome and said TML had been told by the broker previously that 
the purchase was a reduced price in lieu of work completed on the property by Mr M. He 
maintained that he should have been told from the outset that the property was outside of its 
lending criteria and the delay meant he lost out. 
Because Mr M disagreed with our investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know this will be disappointing to Mr M, but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
The valuation of the property is not disputed here. Mr M accepts the property is being 
purchased for less than the market value. Nor does he dispute that TML has acted fairly by 
applying its lending criteria. But he believes the property value was made clear ahead of the 
valuation and hes lost out as a result of the delays in the outcome being provided when it 
could have been provided from the outset.
Mr M feels the call recordings will demonstrate this information was shared ahead of the 
valuation being completed.
Ive listened to all of the call recordings provided by TML between  it and Mr Ms broker. 
Having done so and considering all other information provided including the application and 
contact notes, Im satisfied it was not provided with any notification of the property being 
undervalued ahead of the valuation report being received.
The broker made a number of phone calls at different points to make sure the information 
provided met what was needed and requested by TML. They wanted to make sure 
everything had been sent as needed and checked when information had previously been 
missed. Once all submitted, the broker requested the mortgage valuation to be completed 
and TML reminded them the valuation fee would be non-refundable, regardless of whether a 
full offer was or wasnt provided in response to it. The broker acknowledged and accepted 
this but failed to highlight or question whether the under-market value sale price would be an 
issue. The valuation confirmed the property was being sold at a reduced price against the 
market value, and TML explained it was unable to offer a mortgage because this fell outside 
of its lending criteria.    
As Ive said, Im not persuaded TML was put on notice that the properties sale value was 
below the market rate prior to the valuation report being provided. And in the absence of this, 
I dont think its fair to expect that it could have told Mr M sooner that it would fall outside of 
its lending criteria. TML made it clear ahead of the application that the valuation fee was non 
refundable from this point and the broker continued with the application without clarifying 
whether the deposit and make up of this with the sale price met TMLs lending criteria. And I 
dont think its fair to ask it to refund this fee.
TML was waiting on information requested from the broker to be uploaded before it could 
progress the application. So it follows that I dont think it can be said to have added a delay 
to this, or that it would be fair to ask it to cover the costs Mr M said he incurred as a result. 
A call was made by Mr Ms broker after it explained the lending was outside of its criteria. In 
this call an enquiry was made as to whether a house sold at less than market value was 
something it could assist with providing a mortgage on. In response to this clear question, 
TML explained a property sold under market value was not something it could provide a 
mortgage on. Unfortunately this questioned wasnt asked ahead of the application made for Mr M and as 
Ive explained above, Ive not seen it was told at any point that the purchase price quoted on 
the application form was less than the market value of the property. In the absence of this, 
Im not persuaded it did anything wrong when continuing to ask for the documents it needed 
to progress the application. And when it was clear the property was not one it could lend on, 
it provided notice of this to Mr M. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman