DRN-3279686
The complaint
Ms W complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says were misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Ms W is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In February 2016, Ms W was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to talk 
about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her property. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Ms W decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In November 2020, the CMC made a claim on Ms Ws behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Ms W to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity; and
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) would provide enough income to cover the finance agreement 
repayments costs.
Shawbrook didnt issue a final response letter.  One of our adjudicators looked into what had 
happened. Having considered all the information and evidence provided our investigator 
didnt think that P had misrepresented the system to Ms W and found no reason to uphold 
the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
Ms W accepts she was sent a copy of the quote, but she did not read or understand 
it until she went through this with the CMC after our adjudicators assessment.
The quote suggests Ms W would only be out of pocket by £13.95 per month in the 
first year and will begin to make a profit on a monthly basis in year 4. Ms Ws system 
is projected in the quote to become self-funding between years 12 and 13 of the loan 
agreement. As such, had Ms W read the document, she would have been entitled to 
assume that the system would be self-funding within the term of the loan as promised 
by the sales agent. Given the very small amount by which Ms W would be out of 
pocket in the first 3 years, she may have been willing to proceed on this basis on the 
understanding she would soon be making enough to cover her outlay.
However, this has not been the case. Ms W is making an average monthly benefit of 
£46.34 from the system, substantially less than predicted in the quote. 
Ms W did not sign the quote to confirm that she had been through this with the sales 
agent and for this reason it could not have formed part of their standard procedure.
Ms W relied on the verbal representations made by the sales representative, that the 
system would be self-funding through the income received through the FIT and the 
savings achieved on their electricity costs. Ms W placed little reliance on the quote 
because the salesman was so convincing. The sale was conducted in Ms Ws home 
and the vast majority of the sales meeting was conducted verbally. Ms W had no 
reason to believe that the assurances she had been given during the course of that 
meeting were inaccurate, she simply trusted the sales representatives assurances 
that the solar panel system would cover its own cost and would be entirely self-
funding. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Ms W paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Ms W could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Ms W and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ms W says that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these , along with Ms Ws testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to 
decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence,  Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and that the salesperson went through it 
during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the Ms Ws version of events 
when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
On balance Im satisfied that Ms W was told that the cost of the system was £9,500.00. The 
quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that 
the cash price of the system was £9,500.00. The monthly payment was £100.44. The total 
amount of credit is £9,400.00 and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be 
£18,179.00.
Having considered all the evidence, including Ms Ws recollections, Im satisfied that they 
were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, as 
set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £9,500.00, it would 
cost Ms W more than this as she had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan. 
Ms W has said that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P as well as 
the Ms Ws recollections of their meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most likely 
to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Ms W could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
 
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Ms W could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £202.82.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Ms W could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £223.20 and the combined income and savings in 
year one is shown as £426.02. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months this is the 
length of the loan that Ms W entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £100.44. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £100.44, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Ms W could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall benefits she could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover 
the monthly loan repayments. 
This supports my finding above that Ms W wasnt told that the FIT payment would cover the 
loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about Ms Ws version of events. However,  as Ive 
found that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went 
through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that she was told that the monthly 
loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Ill now consider whether P told Ms W that the system would be self-funding. In doing so Ill 
again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the start. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Ms W was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 30 years. This shows that by year 13 the overall benefits that Ms W could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Ms W that the system would pay for itself by 
year 13, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the 
contract, and she subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Ms W. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 2,976 kWh a year.
I have looked at Ms W FIT statements and can see that her system, on average, has 
generated 3,313 kWh. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, so Im 
satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
this explains why Ms W hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2006 to 2015. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Ms W 
couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Ms W entered into the 
contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Ms W to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman