DRN-3573663
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B complain that GE Money Home Lending Limited (GE Money), unfairly turned 
down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act (CCA).
What happened
Mrs B and Mr B bought a timeshare membership from a company, (Company A) in May 
2004. The timeshare cost £11,299 and was paid for with a loan provided by GE Money. 
The loan was set to run for 10 years and taken in joint names by Mrs B and Mr B.
Mrs B and Mr B, unhappy with a number of issues with their timeshare, made a claim under 
s.75 of the CCA and s.140A of the CCA with their appointed representative (SL). They said:
The nature of the timeshare had been misrepresented.
GE Money failed to carry out adequate checks when the loan application was 
made to fund the timeshare.
The timeshare agreement was null and void due to an EU directive.
The associated loan agreement was null and void too due to breaches of the 
CCA and the Unfair Contract Terms in Consumer Regulations 1999.
In January 2021, Mrs B and Mr B, with the assistance of SL, complained to GE Money. GE 
Money responded to say it was unable to find any records for Mrs B and Mr Bs loan. It 
said this would have been deleted in line with its data retention policy, but it had been able 
to investigate the complaint using the information provided by Mrs B and Mr B.
GE Money said it believed the complaint about misrepresentation and the affordability of the 
loan had been brought too late and was time barred under the relevant provisions contained 
within the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). It also said there was no obligation on GE Money to 
disclose the commission paid to company A when the loan was taken out.
Our investigator looked at Mrs B and Mr Bs complaint and didnt think GE Money needed 
to do anything else. They agreed that the claim under s.75 and s.140A CCA had been 
brought too late, so they didnt think GE Money needed to consider the substance of the 
claim.
He explained he hadnt been provided with the details of any commission paid on Mrs B and 
Mr Bs loan. But from what this service knows about commission paid on these loans, it was 
unlikely the amount would have been greater than 10%. He didnt think this amount would 
have meant GE Money should have realised that not disclosing the commission risked an 
unfair relationship under s.140A.
Overall, he didnt think GE Money needed to do anything else with this claim or complaint.
Mrs B and Mr B didnt agree, they highlighted their main concern was that they considered 
the agreement with Company A voidable and that this meant the associated credit 
agreement with GE Money was also voidable. Because they didnt agree with our
investigator, the complaint was passed to me for decision.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 14 July 2022. I explained that I was 
planning on reaching the same outcome as our investigator but for slightly different reasons. 
So to allow everyone the opportunity to reply, I explained what I was planning on saying. I 
said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not planning on telling GE Money to do anything further to 
resolve the matter and Ive explained why below.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about 
the merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision. 
And I want to assure Mrs B and Mr B, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its 
not because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and 
sent to us. But, Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and 
material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Was the claim under S.75 CCA brought in time?
Mrs B and Mr B said company A misrepresented the nature of the benefits of the 
timeshare agreement, so they say GE Money is jointly liable under s.75 CCA. However, 
under s.9 LA, they had to make a claim within six years of when they entered into the 
timeshare and credit agreements  this was May 2004. This is because this is the point 
in time when they say they would have lost out by relying on false statements of fact.
Mrs B and Mr B didnt bring a claim until January 2021. This is outside of the time limit set 
out in the LA and I dont think GE Money made an unfair claim decision when its said the 
claim was brought too late.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a 
credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor 
arising out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a 
determination but I think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
GE Money hasnt been able to provide evidence of when Mrs B and Mr Bs loan ended as it 
says it was closed some time ago and it doesnt have records that go that far back. Im not 
surprised by this, there is no requirement for GE Money to keep records indefinitely. But I 
note that the loan was taken out in May 2004 and set to run for 10 years. Based on the 
evidence Ive seen; I think its more likely than not that Mrs B and Mr Bs agreement ended 
in May 2014 at the latest. This fits with GE Money not being able to find a record of the loan agreement when it searched its records in January 2021, as its said it doesnt keep 
records for more than six years after an agreement ends.
The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA too. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] 
EWHC 3264 (QB) that when considering s.140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran 
from the date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the 
claim was made. As with an action under s.75 CCA, the limitation period is six years, so 
Mrs B and Mr B would have to bring an action within six years of May 2014, that being 
the latest date I think the loan was likely to be open. As they didnt do that, I think they 
brought their claim too late.
Mrs B and Mr Bs representatives have argued that as the agreement with Company A is 
still ongoing, the relationship with GE Money is also still ongoing and unfair. In other 
words, they are still in time to bring a s.140A CCA claim. But here the repayment of the 
balance of the loan ended the agreement between GE Money and Mrs B and Mr B. It 
was that agreement that was capable of being unfair and giving rise to a s.140A CCA 
claim. So it was on the date of repayment that limitation started to run (following the case 
of Patel v Patel [2009]), as it was on that date that the relevant relationship came to an 
end.
Mrs B and Mr Bs arguments on limitation
I appreciate Mrs B and Mr B may say they didnt know about the time limits Ive explained 
above in the LA, but Im afraid thats not generally accepted as a ground for extending the 
limitation period. Mrs B and Mr Bs representative has made a number of arguments why 
they dont think our investigators view is correct about limitation. Ill deal with each in turn.
Mrs B and Mr Bs representative has said that as the claim was made within three years 
from date of their knowledge that they could bring a claim, it was brought in time. This 
relates to when Mrs and Mr B realised the timeshare agreement is, in their 
representatives opinion, null and void. I dont think this would be a claim that could be 
made under s.75 CCA as there is no allegation that there was a misrepresentation or 
breach of contract, but it would be something a court could consider under s.140A CCA.
It may also be the rules and three years the representatives are referring to are part of 
the time limits within which a consumer needs to complain to a business about a 
regulated financial activity. Those rules apply to Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
governed complaint handling, which in the current context, is a complaint that GE Money 
unfairly turned down their claim. But the reason it decided to turn down the claim was 
because it didnt think it was legally liable due to the operation of the LA, so that is why I 
have considered that legislation.
Was the timeshare agreement null and void?
Mrs B and Mr Bs representatives have argued that the agreement with Company A is null 
and void. They have said the agreement is still running, so its possible that if that 
agreement is voidable that could in turn mean the original loan with GE Money was also 
voidable. So Ive thought about that claim, which would be separate to a claim under s.75 
or s.140A CCA.
Mrs B and Mr B have relied on a Spanish Court judgment and directed me to Spanish 
legislation. I have read both of these things, but that judgment relates to a different product 
than the one supplied by Company A. We have limited information provided by Mrs B and 
Mr B which sets out the details of their agreement with Company A. Theyve provided 
certificates for the timeshare but we dont have anything else to detail the product. But the certificate provided indicates the agreement with Company A is governed by English law. I 
say this as these relate to companies registered in England with company house 
registration and filing history, so I fail to see how Spanish legislation or caselaw is relevant 
to their claim (I note that Mrs B and Mr Bs representatives have not explained this point 
further).
I have been asked to consider an EU Directive that they say gave rise to the ability to void 
the agreement with Company A. Again, Ive not been directed to any specific part of the 
directive that Mrs B and Mr Bs representatives say give them this power which relate to 
the product theyve purchased. Nor have I been directed to any provision in English law, 
either enacting this EU Directive or otherwise, that would give them this power. So, based 
on what Ive seen so far, I dont agree that Mrs B and Mr B are entitled to void or rescind 
the agreement with Company A and, by implication, any credit agreement they entered 
into with GE Money.
Duty of care under s.14A LA
Mrs and Mr Bs representative have also said there is a duty of care aspect in this case 
and GE Money should not have provided the finance for a product that was in breach of 
the EU Directive. Its said this duty of care is applicable via s.14A LA.
Im not persuaded that s.14A LA applies to Mrs B and Mr Bs claim. That provision provides 
for a second period in which a claim for negligence can be made. Looking at what 
happened, when Mrs B and Mr B purchased the timeshare and took out the finance, I think 
there was an obligation to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
them to make an informed choice about whether to take out the loan. But Im not 
persuaded a duty of care arose or advice was provided that could give rise to a claim to 
which s.14A LA could apply.
Nor do I think it would be fair to say there was any knowledge that the product sold 
by Company A is in breach of the EU Directive, as Ive explained above, I dont think 
this applies to Mrs B and Mr Bs product.
The lending decision
Mrs B and Mr B also complain that GE Money was irresponsible to provide the loan as 
proper credit checks werent completed at the time. The loan was taken out in May 2004, 
but our service didnt get jurisdiction to consider complaints about decisions to lend in 
these circumstances until April 2007. So I am not able to consider this part of the complaint 
as the decision to lend was made at a time which, falls outside of the time in which I can 
consider complaints about lending.
Overall, I dont think GE Money has acted unfairly when handling Mrs B and Mr Bs claim 
under the CCA and I dont plan on asking it to do anything else in relation to this.
Both GE Money and Mrs and Mr B via their representative responded early. GE Money said 
it had nothing further to add.
Mrs and Mr B said they disagreed with the outcome. They highlighted the following points 
which they feel demonstrate the time limits under LA should be extended.SL said that It believed Company A failed to comply with the Timeshare Act 1992 (the 1992 
Act) later repealed and replaced by the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and 
Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 .
Specifically, it said Company A had failed to provide information about accommodation that 
was accurate. And it failed to provide information about the withdrawal/cancellation period. 
Under the 1992 Act, a failure to provide this information meant Company A couldnt request 
or accept any payment before the withdrawal period had ended. GE Money made payments 
to Company A during the withdrawal period, it felt this was in breach of the 1992 Act.
SL says GE Money owed Mrs B and Mr B a duty of care to ensure that it and Company A 
didnt breach the 1992 Act. When this was breached, it failed in its duty of care to them. It 
felt this could be considered negligence.
SL said Mrs B and Mr B had no knowledge of the breach or negligence until SL was 
engaged to represent them in August 2020. It feels this is the point in time the limitation 
period commenced under s.14A of the LA.
SL made no further comments on the agreement being voidable or provided any further
response on the lending decision taken by GE Money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reconsidered all information on this complaint as well as the new information provided by 
Mrs and Mr B and SL. Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
decision above.
SL has made further submission about why it feels the limitation period set out within the LA 
should be extended. But Im afraid this doesnt change the decision I reached on this point 
previously.
For s.14A to be applicable, it first needs to be established that GE Money owed Mrs and 
Mr B a duty of care. I said previously that I think there is an obligation on GE Money to make 
sure Mrs and Mr B were given sufficient and appropriate information to allow them to make 
an informed choice as to whether to take out the loan. But I dont think the obligation on GE 
Money extends to them needing to ensure that any products sold and financed by it are 
compliant with the 1992 Act. Ive not been provided with anything which makes me now think 
that such a duty of care would exist, nor am I persuaded that such a duty could be 
established.
So in the absence of a duty of care between Mrs and Mr B and GE Money, I dont think 
s.14A LA is applicable. And I dont think it is relevant for me to make a finding on whether I 
feel Company A was compliant or not with the 1992 Act and the information it provided in 
relation to the timeshare product when it was sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs B and Mr Bs complaint against GE Money 
Home Lending Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman