DRN-3485786
The complaint
Mr E complains that Starling Bank Limited wont refund money he says he didnt withdraw 
from his account.
What happened
Mr E disputes ten cash machine withdrawals from his account which total £2,600. These 
took place from 20 to 29 November 2021. He says he lost his card and his PIN must have 
been seen when he was in a bar. He had then gone away in this country to a wedding and 
had wrongly thought hed left his card at home in his jacket. Mr E says his card at another 
financial business was also lost and had the same PIN. That business has refunded him 
£3,500 of disputed payments.
Starling Bank said it wouldnt be refunding the withdrawals. It said it didnt accept that this 
was fraudulent spending. Starling Bank said it had followed its policy and wouldnt be 
disclosing the details of its investigation. It had asked Mr E for confirmation he reported the 
matter to police and that the other financial business had made a refund.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He set out the times of 
each withdrawal over the period.  He noted that Starling Bank had referred to Mr E receiving 
£1,000 into his account on 20 November 2021. And that not all of the money was taken from 
his account as there was still a balance of over £400 when he reported the fraud. There 
seemed to be knowledge of the withdrawal limits. And the money hadnt been taken out as 
quickly as would have been expected by a fraudster. Starling Bank hadnt been able to 
obtain any information about the report to police. It had been in contact with the other 
financial business and had made its own decision about this claim.
Our investigator said that it wasnt impossible that things had happened as Mr E had 
described. But he didnt think that it was most likely. He took into account the pattern of 
withdrawals. He knew that Mr E had expected Starling Bank to obtain CCTV. But he said 
that this wouldnt necessarily resolve whether a person withdrawing the money was acting 
with Mr Es authority or not. 
Mr E didnt agree. He said that wed just echoed Starling Banks stance. It was an uphill 
struggle for him to address things. And he wanted clarity about what Starling Bank had done 
and whether we thought this was fair. He had submitted all the information required and he 
thought it unreasonable that doubt had been expressed about whether the crime reference 
number hed reported related to these payments. He had been robbed of his innocence and 
if Starling Bank didnt believe him it needed to provide evidence. He had consented to all 
information being provided to the police and if they found the person on CCTV it could be 
established whether Mr E had provided authority. It isnt known what was on the CCTV. The 
£1,000 had been from his wife for a childs nursery fee. There was already £2,000 in the 
account. He hadnt used his card in a cash machine and doesnt know the limit. There were 
no alerts for these withdrawals as he would receive for faster payments. The PIN on his 
cards was the same and could have been seen by a serial pick pocketer. Mr E said that 
Starling Bank has used information selectively here and especially anything the other 
financial business which had refunded his money had provided. He considered that it must 
have some information showing his claim to be false. And he provided communications with 
it at the time showing it had asked him to provide information. Mr E said that coincidences 
can happen, and Starling Bank had a responsibility to prove he had made these withdrawals.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to say something about our role first. We provide informal dispute resolution. And Ill 
be making my findings based both on the information and submissions from Starling Bank 
and from Mr E. I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Ill be thinking about what 
is most likely. Im only going to be making findings about these transactions and I will note 
factual information such as that another financial business refunded what Mr E says were 
similar withdrawals. But Im not looking at how that different business made its decision in a 
complaint about Starling Bank. And it was a matter for Starling Bank to decide how to 
investigate things and what it asked Mr E to provide to make its own assessment.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised 
Mr E wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
- Did Mr E either authorise the payments on the account, which could include allowing 
someone else to use the card ?
Its not in dispute here that cash withdrawals from a machine would need the genuine card 
and the correct PIN. Im satisfied that these payments were authenticated. The issue is 
whether Mr E consented to the payments and so authorised them.
I note that the credit into Mr Es account of £1,000 came at 22.03 on 20 November 2021 and 
the first cash withdrawal was made at 22.51 that evening. There were withdrawals on 
subsequent days totalling up to £300 a day. There was no withdrawal at all on 23 November 
2021. As Mr E has stated the account balance including the further money was over £3,000. 
When the dispute was reported it had fallen to £410. I note that there was an attempted and 
declined withdrawal on 30 November 2021 after Mr E had reported the fraud on 29 
November 2021.
I accept the information that the other financial business refunded money to Mr E. I also 
dont have reason to doubt that Mr E reported the matter to police whether or not Starling 
Bank can verify the details. It would be a matter for police to conduct any criminal 
investigation and access third party CCTV. I have nothing beyond the report of a crime and 
no information including from Mr E about any outcome from police. There is no CCTV 
information Ive seen.
When Mr E reported the dispute to Starling Bank he said he didnt have access to the app or 
his device. So, he didnt know about the activity on his account. He said he had been out 
with a couple of friends and used his card from another financial business to pay for drinks 
and input the PIN. All his cards had the same PIN. He accepts he may have been a bit 
tipsy. As set out he thought over the period he was away his cards were in his jacket 
pocket. He told Starling Bank he had no idea who could have used the card.In helping me to decide what happened I consider the following things that would need to be 
most likely to uphold this complaint:
- An unknown third party obtained possession of Mr Es card, had been able to see his 
PIN on another card and had been able to guess correctly that the PIN for his Starling 
Bank account was the same.
- That person as a fraudster took a measured approach to taking out money. Only cash 
machines were used to the daily limit and not on every day. There was no attempt at 
other payments despite the substantial balance available. 
- That person risked discovery and couldnt know how long it would be before the fraud 
was discovered.
- Mr E, having he says lost two cards for accounts with substantial balances both actual 
and including the £1,000 expected, did nothing about this at the time. He didnt for 
example check the app or contact Starling Bank. It is unclear why he couldnt do so 
even before he returned. And thats even though he seemed to have been using the 
other card for more regular payments including at the bar based on what he says.
Im afraid I dont think that all these things most likely happened in this way and that the 
card was used without Mr Es consent and so authorisation. I appreciate he will be very 
disappointed by this given what is at stake for him. So, I wont be requiring Starling Bank to 
refund this money and do anything further. If Mr E doesnt agree with my decision he 
remains free to pursue this in court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman