DRN-2869402
The complaint
Mr W complains Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle Finance) supplied him with a car 
under a hire purchase agreement which he believes wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
 In July 2019, Mr W acquired a used car which he financed through a 60 month hire 
purchase agreement. The cash price of the car was £6,990, it had travelled around 64,000 
miles and it was first registered in March 2012.
In August 2019, Mr W contacted the dealership and Oodle Finance to report the following 
issues:
- The heating wasnt working (repaired by Mr W);
- The passenger door wasnt automatically locking;
- The anti-braking system (ABS) light was displaying on the dashboard;
- The traction light was displaying on the dashboard.
The car was returned to the dealership and repairs were carried out in August 2019. Oodle 
Finance upheld the complaint as there were faults but as the repair fixed the issues, they 
closed the complaint. 
 
In May 2020, Mr W noticed engine management lights were showing on the car. He 
arranged for it to be looked at by a garage and they found several issues including corrosion 
to the rear axle. He was told it would cost around £700 to repair the corrosion. Mr W 
complained to Oodle Finance. They said as the car had been in Mr Ws possession for more 
than six months, it would be his responsibility to show the faults were developing at the time 
the car was supplied. They suggested Mr W arrange an independent inspection. 
In June 2020, Mr W organised for one to be carried out. The inspection found there were 
advanced levels of corrosion in several areas and most severely to the rear axle deeming it 
incapable of supporting the normal forces and loads of the normal operation of a car. It 
concluded the car was not in a condition that could be regarded as fit for its intended 
purpose at the time of sale. The inspector advised Mr W not to drive the car until the 
corrosion had been repaired.
Mr W stopped driving the car, declared it SORN (statutory of the road notification) and again 
complained saying he wanted to reject it. Around that time, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, 
he was furloughed from his job and Oodle Finance agreed to a three month deferral period 
in July 2020. Once he returned to work, Mr W said he had to acquire another car in order to 
allow him to travel to work.
When responding to the complaint, Oodle Finance said they had considered the comments 
made by the dealership including their offer to repair the car and they believed thats how the 
complaint should be resolved. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr W referred the complaint to our service. The investigator 
recommended the case was upheld. Based on the findings of the inspection report, they said 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. They recommended the rejection of the 
car and a number of other things to put things right such as refunding the monthly payments 
from May 2020 which is when Mr W stopped it. 
There has been a lot of back and forth between the investigator, Oodle Finance and the 
company that carried out the independent inspection. Oodle Finance and the dealership  
disagreed with the investigators findings. In summary they said:
- When the car was supplied, Mr W was told the door lock module was on order and 
would be replaced when available;
- The ABS sensor was damaged due to road debris, this was fixed at no cost to Mr W;
- At the time of supply, the car had passed its MOT and no corrosion was present;
- Mr W had the car for almost a year and corrosion was to be expected as it was a 
used car;
- They disputed the findings of the inspection report and the expertise and 
qualifications of the inspector;
- The pictures of the affected areas show a painted coating flaking which gives the 
impression of rust;
- The cars frame is manufactured with several different sized holes as part of its 
design.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
 
Mr W acquired the car under a regulated hire purchase agreement. Oodle Finance is the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement meaning they are responsible for a 
complaint about the supply and the quality of the car.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015) implies a term into the contract that the quality 
of the goods is satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might
include things like the age and mileage at the time of supply and the cars history.
In this case, Oodle Finance supplied Mr W with a used car that was over six years old and 
had travelled around 64,000 miles. For used cars, its reasonable to expect parts may 
already have suffered wear and tear when compared to a new car or one that is less 
travelled.
The initial problems with the car
There have been a number of reported issues with Mr Ws car from the outset including the 
ABS, traction, the passenger door not automatically locking and the heating not working 
properly. Based on the evidence, its clear these were faults with the car and I note Oodle 
Finance has accepted this. Based on the evidence available and how soon the faults were 
reported (around one month), on balance I think these faults were present or developing at 
the time it was supplied so I believe the car wasnt of satisfactory quality meaning there was 
a breach of contract.In such circumstances, the CRA allows one opportunity for repair outside the first 30 days of 
supply and I can see this is what happened. In August 2019, repairs were carried out.
The corrosion 
In May 2020, Mr W reported engine management lights were displaying and upon inspection 
by a garage, he was told the car had corrosion to the rear axle. 
I acknowledge Oodle Finances comments that they dont think theres enough evidence to 
prove that the corrosion was present at the time of supply. When looking at this complaint, 
Ive considered what is most likely to have happened in the circumstances based on 
evidence. Ive carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties concerned, this 
includes the dealerships comments, photographs and the independent inspection report.
Having done so, I find the independent inspection report most persuasive and I think its 
reasonable to rely on its findings. I say this because its the opinion of an independent expert 
who has the qualifications and experience to inspect the car and having read the report it 
appears a thorough inspection has been completed. It has also taken into consideration 
factors such as how long Mr W had the car for and detailed explanations about the 
corrosion.
Ive checked the MOT history of the car and whilst I appreciate the dealerships comments 
about it having passed it at the time of supply, I must bear in mind a MOT checks the cars 
roadworthiness. It doesnt consider whether any faults wouldve been present at the time of 
supply which is what happened here. The independent inspector has found severe 
corrosion, notably to the rear axle, to the extent he has determined its not safe to drive and 
hes provided detailed findings. Having reviewed the photographs, its clear the corrosion is 
significant. I accept its a used car so its to be expected some corrosion is likely to be 
present however the inspection found there wouldve been advancing corrosion when the 
car was supplied and its condition wouldve meant the cars remaining lifespan was marginal 
and very short. Overall, it concluded Mr Ws car wasnt fit for purpose when supplied. Based 
on these findings and the extent of the corrosion at the time of the inspection, I think its 
more likely than not, there was a level of corrosion at the time of supply that meant the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Given what has happened so far, I agree with the investigator that its now fair to allow Mr W 
to reject the car. I say this because as outlined above, I believe the initial faults such as the 
faulty door made the car of unsatisfactory quality so I consider the repair in August 2019 to 
have been the one opportunity to repair as set by the CRA. Its simply one opportunity for 
repair, not for different faults occurring at different times.
 
This means the finance agreement should be ended and the car collected at no cost to Mr 
W. He said he stopped driving the car in May 2020 and based on the above, I can 
understand why he did so and declared the car (SORN). Ive seen evidence by way of 
odometer readings which shows the car hasnt covered any miles since May 2020 therefore I 
believe its fair Oodle Finance refund the monthly payments from that date onwards. The 
deferral period that was agreed in July 2020, due to Covid-19, should also be waived.
I think its fair as Mr W has evidenced the car wasnt of satisfactory quality by the 
independent inspection that he arranged, Oodle Finance should refund the cost of it (subject 
to evidence of payment).
Im sorry to hear Mr W experienced several issues with the car and it didnt perform as 
expected. Having taken into account the impact on him including his return to the dealership 
in August 2019, having to acquire another car in order to travel to work and having to arrange for his car to be SORN to avoid incurring further costs, I think Oodle Finance should 
pay £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
To put things right, Oodle Financial Services Limited must:
- End the agreement with nothing further for Mr W to pay;
- Collect the car at no cost to him;
- Refund any payments Mr W has made since May 2020 and waive the Covid-19 
deferral payments plus pay 8% simple interest per year from the date of each 
payment up to the date of settlement;
- Refund the cost of the independent inspection (subject to evidence of payment) plus 
pay 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment up to the date of 
settlement;
- Remove any adverse information about this hire purchase agreement from Mr Ws 
credit file;
- Pay £150 compensation to Mr W for the trouble and upset caused. 
If Oodle Financial Services Limited considers tax should be deducted from the interest part 
of my award it should provide Mr W with a certificate showing how much it has taken off, so 
he can reclaim that amount if he is entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman