DRN-3632926
The complaint
Mrs O complains about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has 
handled a claim under her motor insurance policy. She says it shouldnt have accepted 
liability for an alleged accident.
References to LV include its agents. 
What happened
In mid-2021, another driver claimed that Mrs O was responsible for an accident that caused 
damage to their vehicle. Mrs O received a letter from the police which said the driver of her 
vehicle was alleged to have committed an offence of: Driving Without Due Care and 
Attention Prior to a Road Traffic Collision and Failing to Stop and Exchange Third Party 
Details Following a Road Traffic Collision. However, Mrs O denied having physical contact 
with the other vehicle.
LV arranged for Mrs Os vehicle to be inspected by an engineer who didnt find evidence of 
new damage to it. However, after reviewing dashcam footage from the other driver, LV said 
it would be settling the third party claim.
Mrs O raised a complaint with LV. She strongly disputed hitting the other vehicle and 
provided evidence to show that the police werent taking action against her. But LV 
maintained its position. It said it was confident it could not defend the claim, given the 
dashcam footage.
Mrs O remained unhappy and asked our service to look into her complaint. Our investigator 
looked into her concerns, but she didnt think Mrs Os complaint should be upheld. She 
thought LV had acted fairly and reasonably, in line with the policys terms and conditions.
Mrs O disagreed with our investigators outcome. She said that a police car who stopped her 
after the alleged incident didnt observe a collision. They turned and followed her because 
she had crossed into their lane to avoid the third partys car pulling out without indicating. 
The policeman only gave her a verbal warning rather than issuing a summons. She also 
commented that the letter from the police which stated that no further action would be taken 
showed they were not of the opinion shed had a collision. 
Mrs O said she had no idea what damage she was alleged to have caused to another 
vehicle, but it was untrue. She also wanted to know which part of her car collided with the 
third partys car.
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Os complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not my role, or the role of this service, to decide if Mrs O was responsible for the alleged 
incident or if the other drivers claim is genuine.  What Ive needed to decide is whether or 
not LV as acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the policys terms and conditions.
The policys terms and conditions say LV is entitled to have total control to conduct, defend 
and settle any claim. Similar provisions are found in most motor insurance policies, so I 
dont find this unusual.
LV says it decided to settle the third partys claim after reviewing their dashcam footage. It 
told Mrs O it was in no doubt that the accident was her fault. It had observed that the police 
car had to brake and stop to avoid being hit by her when she was in the wrong lane and on 
the wrong side of the road. LV also observed Mrs Os vehicle pulling back in and making 
minor contact with the third party vehicle as they slowly moved forward into the third lane of 
the road.
Having reviewed the dashcam footage myself, Im satisfied that LV has given a fair account 
of what it shows. 
I appreciate Mrs O would like to know more about the damage that was allegedly sustained 
by the other vehicle. Shes also questioned which part of her car collided with the third 
partys car. However, LV has told us it is still waiting for further information from the other 
drivers insurer and is yet to settle the claim.
Mrs O has made a couple of comments about the involvement of the police. She says the 
police car who followed and stopped her after the alleged incident didnt mention her 
colliding with the other vehicle or issue her with a summons. Shes also commented that the 
police decided not to take any action against her following the other drivers allegation.
However, neither of these points persuade me that it was unfair of LV to have decided not to 
defend the claim. I havent seen any evidence to show that the police concluded that Mrs O 
wasnt responsible for a collision. I dont doubt what Mrs O has said about the policeman 
who stopped her not mentioning a collision, but it doesnt necessarily follow that she hadnt 
made contact with the other vehicle.
Mrs O has provided a copy of a letter from the police which says theyd decided that no 
person will be prosecuted for any offences. It goes on to say: The collision report will be 
filed in this office and no further police enquiries will be made. However, should any further 
significant evidence be brought to our attention the decision may be reconsidered. Theres 
nothing on the letter to suggest the police had concluded that a collision hadnt taken place 
or that Mrs O wasnt responsible for it. 
The terms of the policy allow LV to make the decision about whether to settle a claim or 
dispute it. Given what can be seen on the dashcam footage, I dont think LVs decision to 
settle the claim was unreasonable.  As an insurer, LV is likely to have experience of how the 
matter would be viewed if it went to court. In a civil court the matter would be decided on 
balance of probabilities, rather than beyond reasonable doubt. So, I think its reasonable for 
LV not to have placed much weight on the polices decision not to prosecute Mrs O.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mrs O. But overall, I think LV has acted fairly and 
reasonably, in line with the policys terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Os complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman