DRN-3348666
The complaint
Miss C says esure Insurance Limited and its solicitors settled a claim on her motor insurance 
policy without her knowledge, instead of continuing with a planned court hearing.
What happened
Miss C was involved in an accident in 2019 in which she says a motorcyclist cut in front of 
her car. The motorcyclist said the accident was Miss Cs fault and wanted esure to cover the 
damage to the motorcycle. esure thought the claim should be settled with liability split 50:50, 
but the other insurer wouldnt agree. So in January 2021 esure instructed solicitors (firm K) 
to defend the claim. Miss C was happy with that and was willing to attend court. 
In September 2021 firm K settled the case, without informing esure. When esure queried the 
issue in October 2021 (after Miss C called to complain about firm Ks lack of contact) firm K 
said Miss C had told it when it called her in September 2021 that she didnt want to attend 
court. Miss C insisted that was wrong. esure said it had to accept firm Ks account, as it had 
produced a file note confirming the call with Miss C. esure also said there was no reason 
why firm K would have limited the charges it could have made had the case gone to court. 
 
One of our investigators considered Miss Cs complaint. She noted that esure had paid her 
£100 compensation for the delay in her complaint being logged with it and for the lack of 
updates to her from firm K. The investigator didnt think esure had acted unreasonably in 
accepting the explanation firm K had provided for settling the claim. In response, Miss Cs 
representative said there was no reason for her to have changed her mind about attending 
the court hearing. He asked for a review of the complaint by an ombudsman. 
    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although its hard to understand why firm K wouldnt have wanted the full fees payable for 
the court hearing from esure, I think its equally puzzling why Miss C would suddenly have 
decided she didnt want the liability dispute to be decided by a court. Some consumers do 
change their minds - but Miss C was adamant from the start that she wasnt at fault for the 
accident. As esure was prepared to pay for legal proceedings to go ahead, I think its 
inexplicable that she apparently decided that she didnt want her day in court after all. 
Firm K doesnt record its calls, so in my opinion, the note on its file about the conversation 
with Miss C that led to the sudden settlement is surprisingly short, given that it was the sole 
record of it. Im also surprised that firm K didnt write to Miss C to confirm what shed just told 
it in the call and set out what that would mean for her. Instead, the very next day it paid the 
other partys claim - and it didnt contact esure or Miss C even then. I think firm K fell short in 
terms of handling the overall situation well in several respects. 
In my opinion, its possible Miss C didnt tell firm K she didnt want to attend court. Theres no 
reason why shed have wanted to accept full blame for the accident when that might have 
been avoided had the hearing gone ahead. esure thought liability was likely to be split  in 
which case (despite not being held fully at fault) Miss C would still have had a fault claim on 
her record. But its also possible that a judge would have found in her favour. I think its very 
unlikely that Miss C would have wanted to abandon the chance of that happening.
In addition, I cant see why Miss C would have called esure in October 2021 for an update -  
complaining that she hadnt heard from firm K in months - had she recently spoken to firm K 
and told it she wasnt happy to proceed. In my opinion, that makes no sense at all. So I think 
its possible that firm K mixed up her case with another one, which would explain why Miss C 
so strongly denies having spoken to firm K. But thats only speculation on my part, and 
theres no independent evidence of it.
 
The issue for me to decide here is whether it was reasonable for esure to accept firm Ks 
explanation. I think esure was faced with a very difficult situation, as it wasnt involved in the 
plans for the hearing or any discussions around them. On balance, I think it was reasonable 
for it to conclude that it had to rely on firm Ks written record. In my opinion, esure couldnt 
reasonably have challenged that, despite it seeming unlikely that Miss C had changed her 
mind about attending court.
I know Miss C will be unhappy with my decision, and I understand why shes so upset about 
the situation. But despite my reservations about firm Ks actions, I dont think esure acted 
unreasonably, so I cant uphold her complaint.       
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 July 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman