DRN-4334971
The complaint
X and X complain that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined to carry out 
further repairs, following a claim under their home emergency policy. 
What happened
X and X held a home emergency policy with RSA, they made a claim following an escape of 
water at their home. At the time of registering the claim X and X said that they found it 
difficult to get through on the phone, and were met with a recorded message, that explained 
that as the phonelines were overwhelmed with calls, customers were permitted to organize 
an engineer to assist with the home emergency. The recorded message also said that RSA 
would reimburse customers their expenses for this. 
X and X located an independent engineer who carried out a temporary repair, thereby 
stopping the leak, this cost X and X £166.80. But X and X said that as a result of the leak, 
further damage was caused to their property. They obtained some quotes for the repair of 
the damage caused. And asked RSA to cover the cost.
RSA declined to cover the cost as it relied upon the policy terms and conditions, that said 
that it would only be liable for the cost of stopping the leak, as this was the home 
emergency. It asked X and X for the invoice that showed that they had paid for the 
independent engineer. RSA said that X and X hadnt submitted the invoice, just a quote 
which it was unable to settle. And said that X and X ought to claim on their home insurance 
policy for the additional damage.
X and X were unhappy that RSA declined to cover the additional damage and raised a 
complaint. RSA gave X and X their referral rights and X and X referred their complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt uphold it She said that 
RSA ought to have settled the costs of X and Xs  independent engineer. She said that there 
was no obligation for RSA to pay for the additional damage.
RSA said that it hadnt refused to settle X and Xs engineers invoice, it was waiting for them 
to submit the invoice, which they hadnt done. X and X didnt agree with the view and 
reiterated the poor service (in terms of trying to register the claim) as well as the failure of 
RSA to pay for the additional damage caused to their home. So, they asked for a decision 
from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I understand that this is likely to be a 
disappointment to X and X, but I hope my findings explain why I think this is fair. 
Ive considered the comments and evidence from both parties. And I think the main issue of 
this complaint, is whether it was fair for RSA to decline to cover the cost of the additional 
damage caused, following the escape of water. So, Ill concentrate my provisional findings 
on this. 
I have reviewed the policy terms and conditions, to see what RSAs obligations were. The 
policy states, under the home emergency definitions section, under assistance: The 
reasonable efforts made by the approved engineer during a visit to the home to complete a 
temporary repair to limit or prevent damage or if at a similar expense the cost of completing 
a permanent repair in respect of the cover provided.
Ive had a thought about what this means. And I think the emergency is limited to a 
temporary repair. That repair should limit or prevent further damage. A permanent repair will 
only take place, if it has a similar cost to a temporary repair. Looking at X and Xs policy, the 
limit on home emergencies was £1,000. 
X and X said that the independent engineer who attended carried out a temporary repair, 
this resulted in the water being stopped and a pipe being disconnected. Im satisfied that the 
leak at that stage (especially as the water had been stopped) had ended. And that X and Xs 
engineer had carried out a temporary repair. 
Having reviewed the terms and conditions, RSAs obligation was for a temporary repair to be 
completed. Consequently, Im satisfied that under the policy, RSA was obligated to pay for 
the temporary repair, which means X and Xs independent engineers fee of £166.80.
I havent seen any evidence that RSA had refused to settle the invoice. What I have read is 
that X and X have yet to submit an invoice to RSA, that shows that they paid £166.80 to their 
engineer. Accordingly, I think that X and X ought to submit a paid invoice for the £166.80 to 
RSA, as RSA said it will settle that invoice, once it has received it. 
X and X have provided a few quotations for the repairs to the additional damage caused to 
their home. I note that all of the quotes are above the policy limit of £1,000. In any event, 
they will be deemed as permanent repairs. Which under the policy terms and conditions are 
not covered. Not only because they exceed the policy limit, but also because they are 
permanent repairs. Consequently, Im not persuaded that RSA were unreasonable not to 
agree to pay for those costs. And I do agree that X and X ought to make a claim under their 
home insurance policy, if they have one.
X and X said that they experienced difficulty in registering the claim due to RSA being 
overwhelmed with calls. Whilst I understand and sympathise with the difficulty that X and X 
encountered, having reviewed the policy terms and conditions. I can see that one of the 
options available when policyholders make claims, is that there is a choice to use a 
contractor of their own. 
RSA due to the volume of calls, gave this as an option. Which X and X took. Although I 
understand X and Xs frustration, I cant agree that RSA were unreasonable to offer this as 
an option, as this was permitted under the policy. Further, Im happy to see that the 
emergency was resolved within a short period of time.  
Taking all of the evidence into consideration, Im not satisfied that RSA were unreasonable 
not to agree to pay for the damage caused by the leak. Im therefore not going to tell it to do 
anything further here.My final decision
For the reasons given, I wont uphold X and Xs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and X to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman