DRN-2811040
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the service provided by Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) 
when they made a claim on their home assistance insurance policy.
References to IPA include its agents.
What happened
In April 2020, Mr H contacted IPA to make a claim on his home assistance insurance policy. 
He said there was no hot water or heating in his home and the boiler was making an 
unfamiliar noise. 
IPA says it wasnt able to send an engineer to Mr and Mrs Hs property until four days later, 
but it gave them authority to find their own engineer. When the IPA engineer arrived at Mr 
Hs property, another engineer was leaving.
 
The next day IPA said that because there had been third party interference, its engineers 
wouldnt be able to complete the job and it would only provide cover on a reimbursement 
basis. But after Mr H expressed his dissatisfaction with this, IPA agreed for one of its own 
engineers to replace the pump, as it was considered the source of the problem with the 
boiler.
 
The IPA engineer attended Mr and Mrs Hs home two days later but wouldnt agree to 
complete the work because they felt it was too dangerous to go up into the loft, where the 
water tank was. IPA told Mr H if he used his own engineer, it would reimburse him according 
to the terms and condition of the policy. 
A few weeks later, Mr H phoned IPA and said his own engineer had replaced the pump but 
he still had no heating or hot water. IPA said it didnt have an engineer available in his area 
and gave authority for a third party engineer to look at it. Mr H arranged for another engineer 
to look at the boiler. They said the heat exchanger was cracked and quoted £920 to fix it.
IPA decided that the boiler was beyond economical repair (BER). It told Mr H it would 
contribute £250 towards a new boiler as per the terms of the policy.
Mr and Mrs H complained to IPA about the service theyd received. They raised a number of 
concerns including the initial delay in attending the property, saying there would be no cover 
due to third party interference, deeming access to the loft as unsafe despite the boiler not 
being located there, incorrectly saying the policy had expired and deeming the boiler to be 
BER.
IPA agreed its response time for the home emergency assistance wasnt acceptable. It 
accepted that it was likely to have incorrectly told Mr H that the policy had expired. It said it 
didnt have enough evidence to verify that there had been third party interference to the 
boiler. 
IPA didnt think its engineers were wrong to refuse to complete the repairs because it was 
necessary to access the loft and they didnt consider it safe to do so. It didnt agree it was 
responsible for misdiagnosing the fault as being with the pump. It said it was correct to deem 
the boiler BER. It also commented that the heat exchanger was a serviceable part and if the 
boiler was annually maintained it would be removed and cleaned preventing it from failing. 
IPA said if Mr and Mrs H had replaced their boiler, it would arrange for the £250 BER 
contribution to be paid to them once theyd provided proof of payment and a report or 
invoice.
 
IPA offered Mr H around £200 around the time he raised the complaint and a further £150 
when it issued its final response. This was to compensate them for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
 
Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy, so they brought their complaint to our service. They didnt 
feel the compensation IPA had offered was sufficient. They said theyd been without hot 
water and heating for two months and had to call IPA several times a day to try to resolve 
things.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 April 2021 where I explained why I intended to uphold Mr 
and Mrs Hs complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and direct IPA 
to pay some additional compensation. Ill explain why.
Time taken for initial visit
From what Ive been told, Mr H first contacted IPA about his faulty boiler on the night of 10 
April 2020. On 11 April IPA has noted that it told him it wouldnt be able to send an engineer 
until 14 April and gave Mr H the option of using his own engineer.
IPA has acknowledged that there was a delay in sending the engineer around. And, as both 
parties agree there was a delay, I havent needed to consider if there was a delay or not. 
Instead, Ive needed to consider whether the compensation offered for the overall level of 
service provided is fair and reasonable. And Ive done so below. 
The boiler
IPA says the third party engineer who attended Mr and Mrs Hs property on 14 April 2020 
told it the pump and valve would need to be replaced.  It says Mr H told IPA his own 
engineer had freed the stuck pump to temporarily restore hot water and central heating. Mr 
H disputes this. He says his engineer only looked at the boiler and didnt open it up. 
I havent seen any firm evidence to show the third party engineer did interfere with the boiler. 
And even if it did, IPA had told Mr H to appoint an engineer, given it couldnt come to the 
property earlier. With this in mind, I think it was unfair for IPA to say it could no longer assist 
with the repair. But I think it put things right by later agreeing to send one of its own 
engineers to the property, following conversations with Mr H on 15 April. 
Mr H also says the issue was misdiagnosed. This meant that replacing the pump didnt sort 
out the problem. IPA says it wasnt it that diagnosed the issue with the pump. But, regardless 
of who initially diagnosed the issue, IPA did attend the property and I think it should have 
investigated what was wrong with the boiler before they agreed to replace the pump.The problem with the boiler wasnt resolved when the pump was replaced. So, this does 
suggest the issue was misdiagnosed. But IPA has reimbursed Mr and Mrs H for the pump, 
so they havent lost out financially. I appreciate Mr H has also raised this as being troubling 
and upsetting. As with the delay in attending the property, Ive considered the impact of this 
when discussing compensation. 
Mr and Mrs H are also unhappy that IPAs engineer wouldnt agree to install the pump when 
they visited on 17 April 2020.
IPA says this was because the engineer didnt think it was safe to enter the loft to isolate the 
ball valve. Its provided photos to show that the loft hatch is directly above a shower cubicle. 
It says there was no fixed loft ladder and, even if there was, a shower cubicle is not a safe 
place to place a ladder with load. The pictures also show that the hatch was restricted by the 
top rail of the shower.
I appreciate it was disappointing for Mr and Mrs H when the engineer wouldnt agree to 
make the repairs. They dont agree it was necessary to access the loft to complete the work. 
But IPA says that the water storage tank is in the loft and the ball valve needed to be shut off 
to prevent it refilling the system while it was being drained down. Failure to isolate the ball 
valve would stop them from safely being able to change the pump and valves. 
Im persuaded that IPA believed it was necessary to access Mr and Mrs Hs loft to complete 
the work. And having seen the photographs, I can see why they were concerned about the 
safety of entering the loft. 
IPA gave Mr and Mrs H authority to use their own engineer and said they would reimburse 
him according to the terms and conditions of the policy. Although IPA werent able to enter 
the loft, it did provide Mr and Mrs H with home assistance cover for the lack of heating and 
hot water at the time. I think this was reasonable to ensure they were still able to benefit from 
the cover under the policy. 
IPA says the boiler was deemed BER because the cost of replacing the heat exchanger as 
well as the cost for the pump and valve replacement exceeded the current value of the 
boiler. 
Ive asked IPA to provide evidence to show the market value of Mr and Mrs Hs boiler at the 
time, but it hasnt done so. In its final response to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint IPA has referred 
to the costs exceeding £1000.00 which is greater than the current value of the boiler. So, it 
appears to suggest that the market value was around £1,000. 
I dont think its fair to include the cost of replacing the pump in IPAs calculation to determine 
if boiler was BER, because this appears to have been done as a result of the issue initially 
being misdiagnosed. IPA says the quote for replacing the heat exchanger was £920. If the 
market value of the boiler was £1,000, as IPA has suggested it was, it means the cost of 
repairs was less than that. So, based on the limited information Ive been provided with, Im 
not persuaded that the boiler was BER.
But IPA has also commented that the heat exchanger is a serviceable part, meaning that if 
the boiler was annually maintained then this part would be removed and cleaned therefore 
preventing it from failing. 
I can see that IPA asked Mr H for evidence of his boiler being serviced within 12 months of it 
failing to work, but he said he wasnt able to provide the necessary documents. If IPA hadnt offered the BER contribution to Mr and Mrs H it might reasonably have 
concluded that the boiler breakdown wasnt covered because there werent any service 
documents to show it had been properly maintained.
With this in mind, I think IPAs offer to pay a BER contribution seems fair. Mr and Mrs H 
appear to have acted on this offer by buying a new boiler. So, I think its fair for IPA to 
honour its BER contribution offer.
Other concerns
IPA has acknowledged that it is likely to have told Mr H that his policy had expired in error 
because it was incorrectly showing as expired on its systems. So, Ive considered this as 
part of the trouble and upset compensation I intend to award.
Mr H says he also experienced issues with IPA when he tried to claim for a leak in the 
pipework close by his radiators. Mr H says this happened around the same time he was 
dealing with the issues with his boiler. But I cant see any reference to this in IPAs claim 
notes or final response letter. So, it appears to be a separate matter. If Mr H wants to pursue 
this, he might want to raise a separate complaint with IPA. 
In conclusion
Mr and Mrs H say they were without hot water and heating for around two months. I 
appreciate some of the delay was beyond IPAs control. But IPA does have a duty to 
progress a claim fairly and efficiently. And I think, as IPA has acknowledged, there were 
times when IPA could have progressed the claim, much more quickly than it did. So, Ive 
needed to think about the impact the delays in progressing the claim and the failures in 
service have had on Mr and Mrs H, when deciding whether the compensation already 
offered to them is fair. 
Having done so, I can see how being without heating and hot water would have been 
inconvenient and distressing for Mr and Mrs H. there was a delay in initially attending the 
property, and when an engineer did visit, the problem was misdiagnosed. This meant Mr and 
Mrs H were without hot water and heating for longer than they should have been - if the 
claim had been progressed efficiently, and the problem correctly diagnosed in the first 
instance. 
Ive also taken into account that being without hot water would have been particularly difficult 
for Mr and Mrs H, given this was during the first lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic. 
At this time, the government restrictions meant everyone needed to stay at home. And so, 
Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have been able to go anywhere else to use hot water and heating. 
Mr H has told us that an additional £200 payment for trouble and upset would resolve 
matters for them. Having considered everything, I think this is reasonable, given the trouble 
and upset above. So, I intend to direct IPA to pay Mr and Mrs H £200. This is in addition to 
the £350 its already offered for trouble and upset and the £250 BER for the boiler. 
Mr H has told us that he didnt receive the £150 compensation cheque IPA says it sent him 
on 7 July 2020. IPA said it would check whether this had been cashed, and if it hadnt, it 
would cancel the cheque. But when Mr H contacted us recently, he said he still hadnt heard 
from IPA. So, I would urge IPA to get in touch with Mr H directly to resolve the issue of this 
payment and make sure it is provided to Mr and Mrs H.
I set out what I intended to direct IPA to do to put things right. And I gave both parties the 
opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision.Responses
IPA said it had paid Mr and Mrs H £530 to date. It provided evidence to show that the 
cheque it had issued for £150 in July 2020 had been cashed. It said it accepted what Id said 
in my provisional decision. It was willing to pay Mr and Mrs H the further £200 for trouble and 
upset Id recommended, as well as the £250 BER contribution for the boiler once it had 
received proof of payment for the replacement boiler from Mr and Mrs H. 
Mr H made some further comments about the service hed received from IPA and the impact 
itd had on him and his family. He also attached several documents, although we had 
already received most of these previously.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr H that I have considered all of his comments, even if I havent referred 
to each of them individually. 
I appreciate that being without hot water and heating for so long was extremely inconvenient 
and distressing for Mr and Mrs H. I understand that Mr H spent a lot of time on the phone 
trying to resolve things and this must have been very frustrating. I dont doubt that this 
experience had a negative impact on Mr Hs mental health. But Id already considered the 
impact on Mr H and Mrs H in my provisional decision. And I still feel that a total of £550 is 
fair compensation for the trouble and upset theyve experienced.
Mr H has also commented on IPAs assessment that his boiler was BER. He said he 
challenges this as IPA didnt know the model or age of his boiler. The cost of replacing the 
faulty boiler part was below the claims limit of £1,000 and quotes for new boilers were 
between £2,500 to £3,500.
In my provisional decision I explained that I wasnt persuaded that the boiler was BER. But I 
also said that if IPA hadnt offered the BER contribution to Mr and Mrs H it might reasonably 
have concluded that the boiler breakdown wasnt covered because there werent any service 
documents to show it had been properly maintained. I said (although they might not be 
entitled to it) I thought it was fair for IPA to honour its BER contribution offer because Mr and 
Mrs H appear to have acted on it. And IPA has indicated it is willing to do so, once Mr and 
Mrs H have provided the proof of payment it has requested.
I also explained, in my provisional decision, why it wouldnt be appropriate for me to consider 
the concerns Mr H has raised about trying to claim for a leak in the pipework near his 
radiators. In his most recent communication, Mr H has referred to a claim hed made in 
January 2020 when he had no electricity because his hob had exploded. This also appears 
to be a separate matter. So, this is not something I can consider as part of this complaint.
Having considered all of Mr Hs comments and the documentation hes supplied, I havent 
found any reason to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things rightIPA should pay Mr and Mrs H a further £200 for trouble and upset. This is in addition to the 
£250 BER contribution and the £350 trouble and upset payment it offered them before they 
brought their complaint to our service.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and direct Inter Partner 
Assistance SA to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman