DRN-1993740
The complaint
Mr O complains on behalf of Ms O that Hitachi Capital Vehicle Solutions Ltd (Hitachi) have 
unfairly charged for damage when a car was returned at the end of an agreement.
What happened
Ms O returned her car in August 2019 to Hitachi after her hire agreement ended. Following 
an inspection Hitachi sent Ms O an invoice for £320 which it said was in respect of damage 
to all four alloy wheels and a dent. Hitachi said this was outside fair wear and tear standards 
as set out by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Mr O on behalf of Ms O didnt agree with these charges and brought the complaint to our 
service. He explained that there was no damage to the wheels. The wheels were prone to 
corrosion and this couldnt be considered damage. Mr O said that he inspected the car 
before it was returned, and the dent was not significant or outside normal wear and tear.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Our 
investigator thought that the corrosion that was evident on the wheels fell outside what would 
be considered normal wear and tear as set out in the BVRLA guidelines and Hitachi had 
properly charged for it. The investigator reached the same conclusion in relation to the dent.
Mr O didnt agree and replied to say in summary that he didnt accept the dent was 
significant and it was likely that it was not repaired before the car went to auction. Mr O also 
said that the alloy wheels were not damaged in any way they had rust on them which isnt 
the same as damage and shouldnt be charged for under the guidelines.
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The hire agreement signed by Ms O states as follows;
You will be responsible to us for any damage caused to or deterioration of the 
Vehicle otherwise than through fair wear and tear as indicated in the guidelines issued from 
time to time by the BVRLA.
I dont think these are unfair or unusual terms and Ms O accepted them when she signed her 
agreement.
I have looked at the photographs of the alloys and I can see that there is rust or corrosion. 
The BVRLA fair wear and tear standards expressly state, There should be no rust or 
corrosion on the alloy wheels. So, I cant agree with Mr O that the standards only cover 
damage. I can see that the rust is present on all four alloys and so I cant say that Hitachi 
has done anything wrong by charging for this. 
In the circumstances, the charges are in line with the terms of the agreement signed by Mrs 
O and the relevant standards and I cant say that the charges are excessive or 
unreasonable.
In respect of the dent, looking at the photograph in the inspection report I can see that this is 
measured as outside the 15mm which would be considered acceptable within the BVRLA 
guidelines. I consider that this has been correctly charged for as it is outside what would be 
considered fair wear and tear and in line with the terms of the agreement. Although the car 
may not have had the repair before going to auction it is reflected in the loss of value and I 
cant say that the charge of £60 is excessive or unreasonable.
In these circumstances I think the charges made by Hitachi are fair and I cant ask it to waive 
or reduce them.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or reject my decision before 
28 October 2020.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman