DRN-4089180
The complaint
Mr D complains about access to his Experian Limited credit file. 
What happened
In October 2020 Mr D signed up for a paid Experian subscription using an email address. 
The subscription was charged at £14.99 a month and gave Mr D access to his credit report 
and associated services from Experian. In March 2021 Mr D used a second email address 
and opened a free account with Experian that gave limited access to his credit file. 
Last year, Mr D contacted Experian and raised concerns he was unable to access his 
account online. Experian looked into Mr Ds case and issued a final response on 12 October 
2022. Experian offered Mr D £50 as a gesture of goodwill and explained he had two 
accounts. Experian advised it could cancel either account and asked Mr D to confirm how he 
wanted to proceed. But Experian deleted the free account on 13 October 2022 despite not 
hearing back from Mr D. Experian issued another final response and provided guidance 
concerning how to amend an account to update an email address. 
Mr D referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator initially upheld Mr Ds complaint and asked Experian to amend the email 
address on the remaining account and pay him £150. Experian responded and confirmed it 
was unable to amend email addresses but had given Mr D clear instructions on how he 
could do that. Experian didnt agree to increase the compensation to £150. 
Experian later offered to refund five monthly subscriptions totalling £74.50 and pay Mr D a 
total of £100 to resolve his complaint. Our investigator issued a follow up view of Mr Ds 
complaint and said Experian had agreed to issue a refund but that they still felt it should pay 
£150 to resolve his complaint. Mr D asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
As our investigator has said, theres no option for Experian to amend the address recorded 
on the remaining account in Mr Ds name. But Experians given Mr D guidance on how to 
reset passwords and amend email address associated with his account. Ive looked at 
Experians website and can see similar guidance can be found. So whilst I understand Mr D 
wants Experian to amend the address, Im satisfied its provided reasonable instructions on 
how he can do that directly. Im satisfied thats fair in the circumstances of Mr Ds complaint. 
Experians confirmed Mr D had two accounts, one paid for and one free. When Experian 
responded to Mr Ds complaint on 12 October 2022 it asked him to confirm which account it 
should leave open. But instead of leaving a period for Mr D to respond, the free account was 
closed the following day. Mr Ds explained he wouldve preferred to leave the free account 
open and close the other. I understand Experians point that the account it closed was 
already blocked, but it couldve taken Mr D through the process of unlocking it so he could 
amend it to a paid subscription account. 
Its clear Mr D was very frustrated to find that the wrong account had been closed, especially 
given Experian had asked him to confirm the one he wanted to remain open. I agree with the 
investigator that the £50 compensation offered in Experians final response should be 
increased to reflect the level of distress and inconvenience caused. And Im satisfied £150 
fairly reflects the impact of the issues raised on Mr D. So Im going to proceed on that basis 
and award Mr D £150. 
Experian has already agreed to refund five monthly subscriptions totalling £74.50. As 
Experian has provided instructions on how to reinstate Mr Ds account and refunded five 
subscription payments, Im satisfied its already made an offer that is fair. Ultimately, Mr D 
signed up for a paid service giving access to his credit file with Experian in October 2020. If 
Mr D was having difficulty accessing this account he had the option of contacting Experian 
and resetting his access details. I havent been persuaded there are grounds to award 
further refunds in this case. 
Mr D also raised concerns about whether the information recorded on his credit file is 
correct. In line with the investigators view, I havent seen anything that shows Experians 
made a mistake with the details recorded on Mr Ds credit file. So Im not telling it to make 
any changes. 
Putting things right
Taking all the available information into account, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint and 
directing Experian Limited to issue a refund of £74.50 and pay him a total of £150 (less any 
compensation already paid) for the distress and inconvenience caused. My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint and direct Experian Limited to settle in line with 
the above guidance. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman