DRN-3135725
Complaint
Mrs P and Mr P has complained about the overdraft charges Barclays UK Bank Plc 
(Barclays) applied to their current account. Theyve Barclays unfairly applied charges which 
caused financial difficulty.
Background
Mrs P and Mr Ps complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that 
Barclays had done anything wrong. So she didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.    
Mrs P and Mr P disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs P and Mr Ps
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Barclays charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate 
in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Barclays charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mrs P and Mr P if it applied these interest, fees and charges to 
Mrs P and Mr Ps account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been aware Mrs P and Mr P was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive 
considered whether there were instances where Barclays didnt treat Mrs P and Mr P fairly 
and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where Barclays continued 
charging Mrs P and Mr P even though it ought to have known she was in financial difficulty 
or it ought to have realised this was the case. Ive also looked through Mrs P and Mr Ps 
statements throughout the period concerned I cant see that Barclays ought to have been 
aware that Mrs P and Mr P might have been struggling during the period weve looked at. 
Its fair to say that Mrs P and Mr P did have returned payments on occasion. But this 
happened sporadically. And while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements 
over Mrs P and Mr P expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-
committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions account going from the account. 
Equally the amount being credited to Mrs P and Mr Ps account each month didnt indicate 
that they were struggling either, especially as they were only overdrawn by modest amounts. 
So I think that it was Mrs P and Mr Ps spending rather than the charges which were 
responsible for their overdrawn position.
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mrs P and Mr P 
werent experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in 
themselves which ought to have alerted Barclays to potential financial difficulty. So, in these 
circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Mrs P and Mr P, I dont think 
that it was unreasonable for Barclays to have proceeded adding the charges that it did. And I 
dont think Barclays unfairly charged Mrs P and Mr P in circumstances where it ought to 
have realised that they may have been experiencing financial difficulty.
As this is the case, I dont think that Barclays needs to refund any interest, fees and charges 
and Im not upholding Mrs P and Mr Ps complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mrs P and Mr P  especially as theyve 
been waiting sometime for an answer from us. But I hope theyll understand the reasons for 
my decision and that theyll at least feel their concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs P and Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman