DRN-3970950
The complaint
Ms F complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund the money she 
lost when she was the victim of a scam.
What happened
In October 2021, Ms F received a phone call from someone claiming to be from an internet 
service provider. The caller told her someone was trying to hack into her home wireless 
network and her bank account. They got Ms F to follow a link, which showed that her IP 
address wasnt what she was expecting it to be, and to download an app which allowed the 
caller to view and control her mobile phone.
The caller then told Ms F she needed to open accounts with two other banks and make 
payments from her NatWest account to those new accounts, to help catch the people that 
were trying to hack her. So Ms F opened the new accounts, logged into the NatWest mobile 
banking app on her phone and made the payments the caller suggested.
Ive set out the payments that were made from Ms Fs NatWest account below:
Date Amount
1 October 2021 £3,986
1 October 2021 £1,014
1 October 2021 £499
1 October 2021 £3
1 October 2021 £498
Unfortunately, we now know the caller was a scammer who was able to take the money from 
the new accounts Ms F had set up.
The scam was uncovered when Ms F spoke to her daughter about what had happened. Her 
daughter said it sounded like a scam, so Ms F contacted NatWest and asked it to refund the 
money she had lost. NatWest investigated, but said it had spoken to Ms F before allowing 
the payments to go through and she had confirmed she wanted the payments to go through. 
It said it had sufficient fraud prevention measures in place, so it didnt agree to refund the 
money Ms F lost. Ms F wasnt satisfied with NatWests response, so referred her complaint 
to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They thought NatWest had done the 
amount of checks we would expect it to do before allowing the payments to go through. So 
they didnt think it would be fair to require NatWest to refund the money Ms F lost. Ms F 
disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks are expected to make payments in line with their customers instructions. And while 
its not clear whether it was Ms F or the scammer controlling her phone who actually made 
the payment instructions, Ms F was aware the payments were being made and told NatWest 
she wanted them to go through. So, while I recognise she didnt intend for the money to go 
to scammers, I think Ms F did authorise the payments. And so the starting position in law is 
that she is liable for them and NatWest doesnt have to refund the money she lost.
However, where a customer made a payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer 
even though they authorised the payment.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think NatWest should fairly 
and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
NatWest has said that the payment of £3,986 was flagged by its fraud detection system, the 
payment was blocked and it got in touch with Ms F to discuss it. So Ive also considered 
whether the additional checks NatWest carried out when it spoke with Ms F were enough to 
help protect her from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Its not for this service to dictate the checks NatWest should do or the questions it should 
ask. But banks should take steps to protect their customers from the risk of financial harm. 
And the level of those checks should be proportionate to the level of the risk identified.
Ive listened to a recording of the call when Ms F discusses the payment with NatWest. In 
the call, NatWest asks Ms F what the payment is for and she says its a transfer to another 
account she has. NatWest then asks for more details about what the money will be used for 
and asks Ms F to confirm how she got the account number and sort code the money is going 
to, which bank the money is going to and that she carried out some other activity on her 
account that day  all of which Ms F confirms. NatWest then explains some common types 
of scams it has been seeing, including asking Ms F if anyone has called her and asked her 
to lie to the bank about the payment or if she has been called by anyone telling her to move 
her money or that her account has been compromised  which Ms F says she hasnt. And 
finally NatWest explains that, if the payment does turn out to be a scam, it cant guarantee it 
will be able to get the money back. Ms F then confirms shes happy for the payment to go 
through.
Considering the amount of the payment, I think the questions NatWest asked and the 
warnings it gave in this call were reasonable. I also think its reasonable that NatWest was 
satisfied with the answers Ms F gave, and that nothing she said would have caused it 
significant concern about the payment. And as Ms F didnt tell NatWest she had been asked to move money and told her account had been compromised when it asked, I dont think 
further questions about this payment or the later payments would have uncovered any 
significant concerns either. So I think NatWest did do enough to help protect Ms F from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Ms F has mentioned that her circumstances at the time may have made her more vulnerable 
to this kind of scam. And I appreciate that this was the case and that this was a difficult time 
for her. But Ive not seen anything to suggest NatWest was aware, or ought to have been 
aware, of her circumstances before the scam took place. So I dont think it would be fair to 
have expected it to have done anything differently as a result.
I also appreciate that the scammer told Ms F what to say when NatWest called, and was 
listening while she was speaking to it. But I can only look at whether I think NatWest acted 
reasonably. And, for the reasons Ive explained above and based on the information it was 
given in the call, I think it did.
Ive also considered whether NatWest did enough to help recover the money Ms F lost, once 
it was made aware of the scam. But NatWests records show it contacted the banks the 
money was sent to on the same day it was told about the scam. And those banks have 
replied that there is no money left to return. So NatWest has done all wed expect it to do to 
try to recover the money.
I sympathise with the position Ms F has found herself in. She has been the victim of a cruel 
scam and I understand that my decision will come as a disappointment to her. My decision 
also shouldnt be taken as suggesting she is to blame or did anything wrong herself. But, for 
the reasons set out above, I dont think NatWest has acted unreasonably and so I dont think 
it would be fair to require it to refund the money Ms F lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman