DRN-3389230
The complaint
Miss C complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined her claim under 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss C appointed a contractor to install new patio doors and a front door at her property. 
Miss C paid by direct debit but realised there was something wrong with how the doors were 
fitted. Miss C had an expert review the new doors and he concluded that they hadnt been 
fitted correctly and were undersized, so needed rectifying.
Miss C made a claim under her platinum insurance policy as she wanted the doors rectified 
to current building regulations and she was unhappy with the increased energy costs due to 
heat loss through the poorly fitting doors. She said this was particularly impacting her health 
due to her vulnerable circumstances.
UKI reviewed the claim and agreed the doors had been fitted incorrectly. However, UKI 
decided to decline the claim as it said the policy doesnt cover faulty workmanship.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought UKI had fairly declined the 
claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. Miss C disagreed, so the complaint 
has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI have agreed the doors were fitted incorrectly by Miss Cs contractor. So, I have checked 
the terms and conditions of the policy to understand if UKI have correctly applied these in 
deciding to decline Miss Cs claim.
Page 5 of the policy document highlights a general exclusion clause that applies to the 
whole policy. The clause states faulty workmanship isnt covered by the policy. Therefore, 
Im going to disappoint Miss C, as I think UKI have fairly applied the terms in this case. As 
Miss Cs contractors work has been shown to be poor workmanship by Miss Cs own expert, 
I think UKI has been fair in applying this exclusion clause.
Ive considered how UKI dealt with this claim and I can see UKI did consider if there were 
other elements of the policy that would cover Miss Cs circumstances, such as malicious 
damage. But as there werent, UKI unfortunately declined Miss Cs claim. I think it has 
followed a reasonable approach and has provided a fair outcome to this claim, as I dont 
think the policy does cover Miss Cs circumstances.
I appreciate that Miss Cs has difficult circumstances and that her contractor didnt meet the 
necessary building regulations. But, this issue wasnt caused by her insurer and the policy 
doesnt cover claims where the work was done by the policyholders own contractor and was 
found to be done to a poor standard. Therefore, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require U K Insurance Limited to do 
anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman