DRN-4215110
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with what AWP P&C SA did after he made a claim on his bicycle insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr W has bicycle insurance with AWP covering three bikes. The policy renewed in April 
2022. In August 2022 he was involved in an accident and made a claim on his policy. AWP 
turned down the claim because it said a conversion kit Mr W had added to his bike (fitting a 
motor and throttle) meant it didnt meet the definition of a pedal cycle set out in the policy.   
Our investigator agreed Mr Ws bike didnt meet the terms of his policy and so wasnt 
covered by it. So she thought AWP had fairly turned down the claim he made. She accepted 
Mr W also wanted to claim on the legal expenses section of his policy (for costs to pursue a 
personal injury claim) but as that section was insured by a different business this wasnt 
something AWP was responsible for. And any concerns Mr W had about the sale of the 
policy would need to be considered by the business responsible for that. 
She agreed it wasnt clear whether additional damage had been caused to Mr Ws bike by 
AWP prior to it being returned to him. But as the bike was in any case beyond economic 
repair she didnt think this had caused any loss to Mr W. However, she thought AWP should 
refund the premiums paid for this bike from the date the conversion kit was fitted (with 
interest on that amount); AWP has now done so. 
Mr W didnt agree with her outcome. He thought hed been treated unfairly by AWP and the 
refund of premium was just a get out for it. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr W was seriously injured in his bike accident. I was sorry to read about 
that and I hope his recovery is progressing. But the question I need to consider is whether 
AWP got anything wrong when dealing with the claim he made. The relevant rules and 
industry guidelines say AWP has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. It 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The key issue here is whether the bike Mr W claimed for is covered by his policy. It covers 
pedal cycles which it defines as:
Any bicycle, tricycle, tandem or trailer cycle (powered by human pedalling and/or an electric 
battery with an output not exceeding 250w and 15.5 mph) as disclosed on the schedule, 
including all components, equipment upgrades, or cycle related equipment that form part of 
the pedal cycle and are essential to its operation and which are owned by you or for which 
you are legally responsible.
! We cannot cover electric pedal cycles with motors greater than 250w, those that engage 
the motor without you pedalling or those that can he adjusted above 250w by you
In this case the information Mr W provided about the conversion kit he fitted indicates it has 
a motor of 250w. But hes told us it is possible to change that setting and it could be altered 
up to 500w. And Ive seen information online which confirms thats the case. In addition as 
the kit included a throttle the motor could be engaged without the need for pedalling. 
I appreciate Mr W says he wasnt using the motor at the time of the accident but I dont think 
that makes a difference in this case. The question is whether his bike meets the definition of 
a pedal cycle set out in the policy. For the reasons Ive explained Im satisfied it doesnt. So I 
think his claim has been correctly and fairly turned down in line with the policy terms. 
Mr W has provided a set of policy terms containing a different definition. But those terms are 
dated May 2020 whereas the terms AWP has relied on are from July 2021. As Mr Ws 
accident took place in August 2022 Im satisfied its the later version that would apply and so 
the correct terms have been applied. 
Turning to the damage Mr W believes was caused to his bike prior to it being returned to him 
its not entirely clear from the supplied photographs whether AWP (or its agents) did cause 
further problems here. But, even if it did, that damage was caused to a bike that was already 
beyond economic repair. So I dont think theres anything AWP needs to do to put things 
right here. 
AWP has now made a payment which covers the premiums Mr W paid (plus interest) for the 
period his modified bike was no longer covered by his policy. I appreciate that falls far short 
of what Mr W is seeking as a resolution to his complaint but I think its right that AWP has 
made this payment to him. And as I think his claim has been fairly turned down there isnt 
more I can tell it to do here. 
Mr W is particularly concerned a personal injury claim he wanted to make hasnt been 
funded. As our investigator explained AWP isnt the insurer of the legal expenses section of 
the policy so wouldnt be responsible for decisions in relation to this. And if hes concerned 
AWP or his broker didnt refer this claim to that insurer thats something which could form 
part of a separate complaint. 
But while the legal expenses section of his policy provides cover where a policyholder is 
injured, that only applies whilst on their pedal cycle. And pedal cycle has the same definition 
as in the rest of the policy. So its not clear cover would be available to Mr W under this 
section. However, ultimately thats a decision for the insurer of this section to reach if 
Mr W pursues a claim with them. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman