DRN-4154665
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as P, complains that Starling Bank Limited unfairly closed its 
bank account, defaulted its Bounce Back Loan (BBL) and used the balance of its bank 
account funds to repay part of the BBL debt. P also complains that the bank hasnt provided 
historic statements of its account.
What happened
P had an existing bank account with Starling. In March 2021, P successfully applied to 
Starling for a £50,000 BBL and the funds were paid into the P bank account. 
BBLs were designed to help businesses get finance more quickly if they were adversely 
affected by the coronavirus outbreak. Under a government-backed scheme, lenders could 
provide a loan with a six-year term for up to 25% of the customers turnover, subject to a 
maximum of £50,000.
In August 2021, Ps shares were transferred to a new owner who became the companys 
director. Ill refer to him as Mr M1. He contacted Starling in order to take over the running of 
Ps account, but the bank declined to accept him. Starling said this was because of matters 
arising from identity, fraud and credit checks.
Starling went on to default the BBL, to restrict the companys access to the bank account 
and eventually to close the account. In February 2022, Starling set off £20,378.60 from Ps 
bank account to repay part of the remaining balance on the BBL.
During these events, a family member, who I shall call Mr M2, also became a director of P. 
Starling did allow Mr M2 access to the account.
P complained about the banks actions regarding its bank account and the BBL. Mr M1 also 
said Starling hadnt provided bank statements that the company could access, with the result 
that P couldnt submit its accounts to Companies House. 
I issued a provisional decision in which I said I was minded to direct Starling to provide P 
with statements of its bank account. But I didnt think it was unfair or unreasonable of 
Starling to default the BBL or to use Ps remaining bank account funds to reduce the BBL 
debt, so I wasnt minded to require the bank to do anything further. I explain my reasons in 
summary below.
In response to my provisional decision, Starling said it would be happy to provide copies of 
statements. 
P disagreed with my findings. Its director said he remains bitterly disappointed, and he made 
a number of points which I also summarise below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the light of Ps disagreement with my provisional findings, Ive looked again at the 
evidence. Im sorry to disappoint Ps director, but after careful consideration, I havent 
changed my view.
Bank account restriction and closure
I think Starlings decision to restrict then close Ps bank account was reasonable. Mr M1 was 
a new owner and director applying to take over the running of an existing company account 
and, in the circumstances, the bank was entitled to run security and credit checks. Mr M1 
didnt pass those checks. As a result, Starling wasnt willing to continue the banking 
relationship with P with Mr M1 as primary user of the account. I dont think the banks 
decision was unreasonable or unfair.
Mr M1 says the problem identified in Starlings checks was simply an incorrect date of birth 
on Companies House, which was soon corrected. But from the evidence Ive seen, Im 
satisfied that the bank had wider concerns than the information filed at Companies House. 
I realise that after Starling declined to add Mr M1 to the account, Mr M2 was appointed as a 
second director and the bank did give him access to the account. But in my view, Mr M2s 
involvement didnt change the fact that Starling already had security concerns about Mr M1. 
These led Starling to restrict then close the account and I dont think the bank was unfair or 
unreasonable to act on its concerns.
The BBL
The BBL was agreed between Starling and P when the company was under its previous 
ownership and management. As a result of Mr M1 taking over the company, he became Ps 
Person of Significant Control, as registered at Companies House. The BBL agreement lists a 
number of potential acts of default, including a change in the companys Persons of 
Significant Control. 
Starling has said that it doesnt automatically default loans when theres a change of 
ownership  rather, it says it considers cases individually. The bank defaulted Ps BBL 
because of its concerns over the new Person of Significant Control and broader concerns 
about the risk of keeping the loan open.
Given that Starling had security concerns, which had already led it to decline to add Mr M1 
to the bank account, I dont think it was unreasonable for the bank to use its contractual right 
to default the BBL under the terms of the loan agreement. 
At that time, the entire loan balance was still outstanding, and the bank would have 
assessed the risks it would face in leaving the loan running in the new circumstances. I think 
it was reasonable to regard the lending risk as having changed with the new ownership and 
management of the company. 
In other words, the ownership and control of the company had changed entirely since the 
drawdown of the BBL, and the bank wasnt happy with level of risk that it perceived to be 
associated with the new owner. I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for the bank to 
bring the loan agreement to an end and to seek repayment. Again, I dont think the presence 
of Mr M2 as a second director makes any difference to this.
There was a substantial sum in Ps bank account with Starling, equivalent to about 40% of 
the BBL debt which the bank was requiring P to repay. In the circumstances, the bank was entitled, under its right of set-off, to use the funds held in the bank account to reduce the 
balance of Ps BBL debt, and I dont think it was unfair to do that. 
For the above reasons, I dont think Starlings actions regarding the BBL were unreasonable 
or unfair.
Historic statements
Starling failed to provide historic bank statements which P had requested, and the bank 
hasnt given a reasonable explanation for this. 
P has said that, without the statements, it hasnt been able to submit its account filings to 
Companies House, putting the company in danger of strike-off action. But I note that the 
accounts that are late are those for the companys financial year ending in July 2021, which 
was before the company changed hands, so I would expect the company already to possess 
the required information for that period. 
In response to this, Mr M1 says that on the same day that he applied to take over the bank 
account, the companys previous owner left the account. As a result, he says the previous 
owner was unable to obtain any statements for preparing the company accounts. That may 
be true, but its still my view that a company would usually possess information on its assets, 
income and expenditure for the most recent complete financial year prior to its sale to a new 
owner. If that wasnt the case here, I dont think I can reasonably hold the bank responsible 
for P not having the information now. 
I note that the companys confirmation statement is also late, and my understanding is that 
no accounting information is necessary for that submission. Mr M1 says he felt it would be 
strange to submit this statement and not the accounts. But the requirement to submit a 
confirmation statement is clear, irrespective of the company accounts submission. This 
strengthens my belief that the bank shouldnt be held responsible for the lateness of Ps 
filings at Companies House, or for P being at risk of strike-off action.
Nevertheless, noting that Ps accounts for the year ending in July 2021 have still not been 
submitted to Companies House, I believe it would be of practical assistance for the company 
to receive bank statements reaching back to cover that year. I think Ps request for the 
statements is reasonable. Im therefore directing Starling to provide P with bank statements 
covering the period from the beginning of August 2020 up to the date the account was 
closed..
My final decision
My final decision is that I direct Starling Bank Limited to provide P with statements of its bank 
account from the beginning of August 2020 up to the date the account was closed. The 
statements should be sent by post to the companys address. In all other parts of this 
complaint, I dont require Starling to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman