DRN-3172193
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W have complained about the basis on which Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited (LV) settled a claim under their home insurance policy.
  
What happened
In 2017, Mr W and Mrs W complained to this service about issues with an ongoing claim 
following an escape of water in their home in 2015. One of our investigators said an 
independent surveyor should be appointed at LVs expense to prepare a report on the 
outstanding work, with both parties bound by the surveyors findings. Both parties agreed 
with what our investigator said and the complaint was closed at this service.
After some delays, an independent surveyor carried out a survey and provided a report. A 
tender analysis report was then prepared and four different contractors provided a tender 
based on the surveyors scope of works. Following this, the kitchen was found to be beyond 
economic repair, so the surveyor said this needed to be included in the cash settlement.
LV offered a cash settlement based on the lowest tender price. Following this, Mr W and Mrs 
W approached the company that had provided the lowest tender price to ask it to carry out 
the work. However, the company said it no longer carried out work in the area where Mr W 
and Mrs W lived.
So, Mr W and Mrs W complained to LV. They said the basis of LVs cash settlement wasnt 
valid, as it wasnt possible to find a contractor to carry out the work at the lowest tender 
price. When LV replied, it said it had complied with the recommendations of this service by 
appointing an independent surveyor and agreeing to be bound by their findings. It said there 
had been delays, but these had been down to the independent surveyor, so were outside of 
its control. It said it was confident that its settlement figure was in line with the findings of this 
service. However, it said it was aware there was still a dispute about the tiled floor. It said Mr 
W and Mrs W should have enough tiles in their possession to replace the poorly cut tiles but 
that if it became necessary to replace matching floor tiles across the entire ground floor, 
subject to validation, it would increase the settlement figure to deal with this.
Mr W and Mrs W complained to this service. Our investigator raised a number of issues with 
LV, as a result of which LV:
agreed to appoint a quantity surveyor to price the repair schedule, including taking into 
account competitive contractor rates based on where Mr W and Mrs W lived. 
following this, provided an increased settlement figure that included the pricing prepared 
by the quantity surveyor, the costs of a replacement kitchen based on the costs provided 
by Mr W and Mrs W and VAT.
confirmed it would consider alternative accommodation for Mr W and Mrs W should this 
be necessary during the reinstatement works. 
Our investigator also said how LV had proposed to deal with the floor was reasonable. She 
said LV should also pay £750 compensation for the delays and errors that it was responsible 
for since the previous complaint was dealt with by this service.
As Mr W and Mrs W didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part. I will explain why.
Im aware this service considered a previous complaint from Mr W and Mrs W about the 
claim. One of our investigators issued findings on that case, which both parties accepted. 
Ive only considered what has happened since then, although Im aware of what the 
investigator for the previous complaint said and why.
I would also like to assure both parties that Ive read all of the evidence that was provided 
related to this complaint. Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues in order to make 
my decision. 
Mr W and Mrs W complained that LV offered a cash settlement for the claim based on a 
tender from a company that wasnt able to carry out the work. Mr W and Mrs W said they 
didnt think it was fair to base the cash settlement on that tender amount. Im also aware that 
the independent surveyor said to LV that, due to the difference between the lowest tender 
and the next two tenders, he thought LV should set aside the lowest quote, which was from 
this company. So, I can understand that Mr W and Mrs W were of the view that the cash 
settlement they were offered wasnt calculated on a fair basis. 
While Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint was with this service, LV agreed the cash settlement 
offer shouldnt have been based on the tender from that company. It said it would appoint a 
quantity surveyor to re-price the work, taking into account contractor rates in the area Mr W 
and Mrs W lived. LV has now done this and provided Mr W and Mrs W with a revised cash 
settlement figure. 
Mr W and Mrs W also said they hadnt been offered an appropriate amount to replace their 
kitchen. LV has now agreed to increase the cash settlement for the kitchen, so that Mr W 
and Mrs W receive the amount for the kitchen as given in a kitchen quote they provided. So, 
I think that LV didnt settle these parts of the complaint fairly when it made its cash 
settlement. However, I think the additional steps LV has now taken to deal with this both of 
these parts of the complaint are reasonable in the circumstances. If Mr W and Mrs W are 
unhappy about the cash settlement offered, they would need to raise this as a new complaint 
with LV.
Mr W and Mrs W have said they also dont think their floor can be repaired by replacing 
individual tiles and that, instead, LV should replace the whole floor. Im aware that Mr W and 
Mrs W have said they also werent given enough tiles to replace the ones that were 
damaged. LV has said Mr W and Mrs W should first arrange for the damaged tiles to be 
replaced. Having done so, if the floor cant then be properly repaired, Mr W and Mrs W can 
provide LV with evidence of this. LV will then consider whether the whole floor should be 
replaced. I think that is reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive also thought about compensation. Im aware this has been a very lengthy claim. I 
havent considered the period from the start of the claim until our previous investigator 
issued some findings, as that has already been dealt with. Im aware that there were delays 
after that point though. Some of these delays seem to be because of ill-health and other 
issues related to the independent surveyor. As the surveyor wasnt working for LV, it wasnt responsible for those delays. Im also aware that LV made a substantial payment to Mr W 
and Mrs W over two years ago, which did allow them to carry out some works if they wished 
to do so.
However, LVs cash settlement was based on a tender amount that wasnt realistic and that 
the surveyor had advised LV to set aside. LV seemed to ignore the surveyors advice, which 
I think added to the delays in progressing settlement of this claim. Given the size of the claim 
and the outstanding issues that needed dealing with in Mr W and Mrs Ws home, I think this 
caused them considerable inconvenience. Im also aware of the distress and impact that Mr 
W and Mrs W outlined, including some health issues, which I wont provide any details of 
here. So, thinking about this, Im of the view that LV should pay £750 compensation to 
recognise the impact on Mr W and Mrs W.
  
Putting things right
LV should pay Mr W and Mrs W £750 compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr W and Mrs W £750 
compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman