DRN-4226295
The complaint
Mr W complains that Rock Insurance Services Limited auto-renewed his annual travel 
insurance policy without his consent.
What happened
n August 2021, Mr W took out an annual travel insurance policy through Rock. The contract 
terms stated that in cases of an annual policy, Rock would auto-renew the policy each year 
unless it was specifically told not to. Mr W didnt let Rock know that he didnt want to renew 
the policy.
So in August 2022, Mr Ws annual travel insurance policy renewed at almost double the 
previous price. Mr W was unhappy with the auto-renewal of the policy, as he said he hadnt 
consented to Rock taking his money or starting a new policy. Rock cancelled the policy and 
refunded Mr Ws premium.
Separately, Rock told Mr W it was looking into his concerns, but it didnt provide a final 
response to his complaint within the regulators timeframes. So Mr W asked us to look into 
his complaint.
Rock didnt provide us with its file in line with our deadlines. So the investigator assessed the 
complaint based on the evidence he had. He didnt think Rock had treated Mr W fairly.
Subsequently, Rock made an offer to provide Mr W with a written apology and to pay him 
£50 compensation. But Mr W remained unhappy with Rocks position and so the complaint 
was passed to me to decide.
Rock has since let me know that its prepared to offer Mr W £75 compensation. Thats 
because it noted that he hadnt been sent a renewal notice prior to renewal of the policy. A 
renewal notice would have set out the new premium and given Mr W a chance to contact 
Rock and cancel renewal if he was unhappy with the terms of the new policy. Rock also 
acknowledged that it hadnt responded to Mr Ws complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 5 June 2023, which explained why I thought Rocks offer of 
compensation was fair. I said:
Its clear that Mr W was very unhappy when Rock auto-renewed his 2021 policy, after he 
failed to opt-out of auto-renewal. I can see that the premium had increased quite significantly 
too.
The terms of Mr Ws 2021 contract do state that in cases of an annual policy, Rock will 
automatically renew the policy at its expiry date. And Mr Ws 2021 policy certificate also 
states that unless Mr W opted-out, the policy would automatically renew upon the expiry 
date. I dont agree with our investigator then that Rock didnt make it sufficiently clear that 
annual policies would be subject to auto-renewal. Im mindful too that it appears that Mr W 
had opted out of auto-renewal with Rock for a policy hed held in 2019, so I think he was 
likely to have been reasonably aware of the way Rock handled renewals.
However, the contract terms also say that Rock will write to policyholders ahead of renewal 
with the renewal price and details. Rock acknowledges that this didnt happen in Mr Ws 
case. This means that Mr W received information about the renewed policy after auto- 
renewal had already taken place. Therefore, he wasnt given an opportunity to check he was 
happy with the level of cover - or the price of the policy - prior to Rock debiting the premium 
and renewing the contract. Given Mr W seems to have been unhappy with the price, it 
seems to me that had he been sent renewal information ahead of time, hed likely have 
contacted Rock to cancel the auto-renewal.
So this means I think Rock did do something wrong. Its clear though that Rock refunded Mr 
Ws premium within five days of it being requested  which I find to have been prompt and 
appropriate. Accordingly, Im satisfied that Rock hasnt caused Mr W to suffer a continued 
financial loss.
On the other hand, its clear that this matter has put Mr W to some time and trouble. As Ive 
set out about, it failed to provide Mr W with a renewal notice ahead of time. He had to 
contact Rock to cancel the policy following its auto-renewal and it failed to respond to his 
complaint in a timely way. While this didnt prevent Mr W from bringing his complaint to us, I 
dont doubt that Rocks failure to address his complaint sooner caused him additional 
frustration and inconvenience. As such, I think its appropriate that Rock takes steps to put 
right its mistakes. In my view, the £75 compensation Rock has now offered, along with the 
written apology to Mr W it previously offered, is fair compensation to reflect the impact I think 
this matter has had on him. Im pleased that Rock has now agreed to pay this amount of 
compensation and, priorly, to offer a written apology to Mr W.
I asked both parties to respond with any additional evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Rock didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
Mr W considered that if Id placed an obligation on him to have been reasonably aware of 
the way Rock handled renewals, then the same obligation should apply to Rock. As such, 
given Mr W had opted out of auto-renewal in 2019, he felt Rock shouldve been reasonably 
aware of the way he regarded auto-renewals. He said that if hed received the renewal 
notice, hed have acted straight away to cancel the policy before any money left his account. 
And he referred to other insurers asking policyholders to opt-out of auto-renewals before 
proceeding with a policy application. However, he considered that Rock relied on its 
customers not reading the small print, which he felt was sharp practice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think Rocks offer of settlement is fair and reasonable and Ill explain 
why.
As Ive set out above, I do think Mr Ws policy documentation did make it sufficiently clear 
that the policy would auto-renew unless he opted out of auto-renewal. This means that I 
think the policy terms were clear enough to put Mr W on notice that his policy would auto-
renew at the end of the insured period.
However, Rock acknowledges that it didnt send Mr W a renewal notice prior to the renewal 
of his policy when it ought to have done so. And I accept that had Mr W received a renewal 
notice ahead of the policy renewal date, hed most likely have cancelled the policy ahead of the premium debiting his account. So I agree that Rock made a clear error here, which put 
Mr W to unnecessary time and inconvenience. It accepts too that it didnt respond to the 
complaint in a timely way. Its appropriate then that Rock should take steps to put things 
right.
When considering what fair redress should be, I must consider (amongst other things) what 
went wrong; whether an error caused a consumer to suffer financial loss; whether the 
financial business took reasonable steps to resolve things and whether any compensation 
award is proportionate to the error or loss. As Ive explained, Rock cancelled the policy and 
refunded the premium promptly, ensuring Mr W didnt suffer a continued financial loss. Its 
agreed to write Mr W a letter of apology. And its offered to pay him £75 compensation for 
his upset and inconvenience. In my view, this is a reasonable and proportionate award to 
recognise the overall impact I think this matter had on Mr W. 
Id add that Rock has also told us that it accepts that good business practice is that a 
consumer should positively agree to opt-in, rather than opt-out of auto-renewals and that this 
is something Rock is working towards. I hope this reassures Mr W with regard to this 
particular point. However, as were not the industry regulator, this isnt something Im able to 
compel Rock to do.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
Rock has now made a fair offer of settlement.
I direct Rock Insurance Services Limited to pay Mr W £75 compensation and issue him with 
a written apology for its actions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman