DRN-3748088
The complaint
Mr G complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (OCRF) rejected his claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to his 
purchase of some solar panels.
Mr G is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC).
Background
Mr G bought solar panels for his home in September 2017. The purchase was funded by a 
seven-year loan from OCRF, and so that business is liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the Act. In this case, that relates to the supplier of the panels misleading Mr G 
into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr G originally approached the Energy Ombudsman, which in 2018 upheld his complaint 
and awarded him £2,000 compensation. Mr G accepted that offer in writing in full and final 
settlement of his claim. That award is enforceable in court.1 But this compensation was 
never paid. After chasing the supplier for payment for two years, in 2020 he instructed the 
CMC to bring a claim against OCRF under section 75 of the Act. When OCRF declined that 
claim, Mr G complained about that outcome to our service.
Mr Gs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr G, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance, and should take the Energy Ombudsmans award of £2,000 into account, as 
Mr G could still claim it. OCRF didnt substantively respond, so the case was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am minded to uphold it, but only to award Mr G £2,000. I will explain why.
Mr Gs complaint is that OCRF did not uphold his claim under section 75 of the Act. That 
claim was that the supplier of the panels had misrepresented them. Section 75(1) says that 
where goods or services are bought with credit, the creditor  here, that is OCRF  is jointly 
and severally liable with the supplier for any misrepresentation made by the supplier, and the 
purchaser shall have a like claim against the creditor as he has against the supplier.
1 See https://www.ofgem.gov.uk/information-consumers/energy-advice-households/making-complaint-
about-your-energy-supplier-or-network-operator
That means that OCRFs liability for what the supplier did is the same as the suppliers. So 
once Mr G accepted an award of £2,000 in full and final settlement of his claim against the 
supplier, that discharged the supplier  and, in my view, OCRF too  from any liability it 
might have had to pay Mr G more than that. I have seen Mr Gs signed acceptance form, 
dated 3 December 2018, and it clearly states that the award was in full and final settlement.
If Mr G took the supplier (which is still trading) to court, the supplier could rely on the Energy 
Ombudsmans award as a partial defence to his claim, capping damages at £2,000 plus 
interest. So I do not think it would be fair to require OCRF to pay him more than that. I will 
award simple interest at eight per cent a year from 3 December 2018 to the date of 
settlement.
I have considered the risk of double recovery; that is, that after getting £2,000 from OCRF, 
Mr G could still take the supplier to court to get another £2,000. That would not be fair. But 
I think that risk can be ruled out, because under section 75(2) OCRF has the right to be 
indemnified by the supplier for any loss it incurs in meeting its liability under section 75(1). 
And once the supplier has indemnified OCRF, it could then plead that payment in its defence 
to any court claim that might be brought against it for the Energy Ombudsmans award.
For the reasons Ive explained, I am currently minded to uphold this complaint. Subject to 
any further representations I receive from the parties  I intend to order Omni Capital Retail 
Finance Limited to pay Mr G £2,000, plus simple interest on that sum at the rate of eight per 
cent a year from 3 December 2018 to the date of settlement.
Responses to my provisional findings
OCRF accepted my provisional decision. The CMC did not. It argued that Mr G should still 
receive the full award that the adjudicator had recommended. He had originally asked for 
£4,500, and had only begrudgingly accepted the Energy Ombudsmans award because it 
had been presented to him on a take it or leave it basis and he had wanted to draw the 
matter to a close. At the time, he had not been aware of the alternative remedy described by 
the adjudicator, but the CMC said that this would be the fairest way to resolve this complaint.
My findings
I have considered whether it would be fair and reasonable for me to depart from the terms of 
section 75 to the extent of allowing Mr G to recover more from OCRF than he would be 
entitled to claim from the supplier in an action to enforce the Energy Ombudsmans award, 
for the reasons advanced by the CMC. But I do not think that it would be. It was not OCRF 
who mis-sold the solar panels, but a third party; OCRF has done nothing wrong (except to 
decline Mr Gs section 75 claim in 2020). So I think it would not be fair if OCRF now had to 
pay more compensation than the party who was really at fault would have to.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited to 
pay Mr G £2,000, plus simple interest on that sum at the rate of eight per cent a year from 
3 December 2018 to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman