DRN-2441248
The complaint
Mr F has complained about what happened when he wanted to cancel his minibus insurance 
policy through Riviera Insurance Services Limited. 
What happened
In April 2019 Mr F bought a minibus policy through Riviera. On 9 December 2019 he 
contacted Riviera to say hed sold his 17-seat minibus and asked Riviera to freeze the 
policy. Riviera said he couldnt keep the policy open without a vehicle on it, so Mr F asked it 
to quote him on his mothers car. Riviera said it couldnt quote on this as the car was already 
insured elsewhere. Riviera agreed to quote Mr F for a similar vehicle to his mothers  a 5-
seat vehicle  and contacted the insurer. Riviera said the insurer confirmed on 11 December 
that it would cover a 5-seat vehicle.
Riviera said it tried to call Mr F on 27 December to see if he wanted to change the vehicle
and as it couldnt get hold of him it sent him a letter saying his policy would be cancelled in
seven days. Riviera said it called Mr F on 3 January 2020 and he was unhappy because it
hadnt called him back to confirm if the insurer would cover a 5-seat vehicle. Riviera said it
input the details into the insurers portal and through this the insurer confirmed it would cost
an additional £52.10 to cover his mothers car, if ownership was to pass to him.
Riviera said it tried to contact Mr F on 6 January to see if he wanted to change the vehicle on
the insurance. Mr F called on 8 January and was unhappy he hadnt received a call back on
3 January. He didnt want to cancel his policy at that point because he didnt want to lose a
years no claims discount (NCD). Riviera agreed to keep the policy open for another seven
days while Mr F looked for a new vehicle.
Mr F called a couple of days later as hed bought a car similar to his mothers. Riviera said it
contacted the insurer who said they couldnt cover this vehicle, they had thought Riviera
meant Mr F was asking to reduce the number of seats in the minibus to five. Riviera said it
contacted other insurers to find a competitive quote for Mr F and was able to offer him an
annual premium of around £2,500. It also said it would provide him with one years NCD if
Mr F took the new policy.
Riviera ultimately cancelled the policy as there was no vehicle on it. It waived the £100
cancellation fee and also offered him £100 in vouchers due to not having called him back
when it said it would.
Mr F complained to Riviera. When Riviera didnt respond he brought his complaint to us. He
said hed been given incorrect information and that had caused him a financial loss, as hed
bought a car that hed later had to sell due to the information Riviera gave him. He also
thought Riviera should have given him a years NCD and was unhappy with the lack of
contact.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 23 November 2020, where I explained 
what I thought Riviera needed to do to put things right. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its usual for a years NCD to only be awarded when a policyholder has their policy for the
whole term of the policy. That means that as Mr F had sold his vehicle before the end of the
policy, he wouldnt be entitled to a years NCD unless he placed another vehicle on it
instead. And he wouldnt be able to freeze the policy or keep it open without a car on it. So, I
dont think Riviera did anything wrong in telling Mr F he wouldnt be able to freeze his policy
or that he wouldnt gain a years NCD if his policy cancelled.
I understand Riviera initially had concerns about providing a quote for Mr Fs mothers car. I
think it was correct in telling Mr F he wouldnt be able to add that particular car to the policy,
as it was already insured by his mother. But Im pleased that Riviera agreed to generate a
quote on the car in order to help Mr F decide if he could add a similar car to the policy.
However, in doing so, I dont think Riviera gave him the correct information about the cost of
adding a new car to his policy. I say that because Riviera told us it asked the insurer whether
it would cover a 5-seat vehicle. But it doesnt seem to have been specific about the type of
vehicle, which led the insurer to believe it was quoting for a taxi rather than a private car.
And when the insurer found out that Mr F wanted to add a 5-seat car to his policy which
wasnt a taxi, it wasnt able to do so.
So, Ive thought about whether that caused Mr F and loss. I think it did and Ill now explain
why. Mr F told us that as he thought he could insure a car similar to his mothers for around
£50 he bought one for £950. However, when he found that he would need to pay around
£2,500 to insure this car he wasnt able to afford it. Hes told us that as a result he had to sell
his car for £450.
I dont think that Mr F would have bought this car if it wasnt for the information Riviera gave
him about the cost of insuring it. I can understand why Mr F wouldnt want to pay an
additional £2,500 to insure a car hed been told he could insure for around £50. So, I think
Riviera should compensate him for any loss he experienced in buying and selling the car.
Mr F said he paid for and sold the car in cash, so hasnt been able to provide any evidence
of this loss other than his testimony. However, I find this plausible and dont think it would be
unusual or unreasonable to lose £550 when buying a car and selling it in the space of a few
months, given that he wanted to get rid of it quickly as he wasnt able to afford to insure it. I
also dont find it unusual that Mr F paid for a car of this value in cash and so isnt able to
provide bank statements to show the sale.
I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this particular complaint is for Riviera to put Mr F
back in the position he would have been in if it hadnt given him the wrong information, by
paying him £550 for the amount he lost in buying and selling the car. Due to the time hes
been without the money it should also add interest at 8% simple per year from the date he
sold his car to the date it makes payment.
I understand Riviera has also offered Mr F £100 in vouchers as it doesnt feel he received
the level of service he should have expected, due to not being called back when requested
and for delays in responding to his concerns. I think this a fair and reasonable amount to
compensate for his distress and inconvenience. So, I dont intend to require Riviera to pay
anything further.
Mr F accepted my provisional decision but added that the delays caused by Riviera had cost 
him additional premium, due to his policy not being cancelled sooner. He also said he hadnt 
received the £100 in vouchers Riviera offered. Riviera didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
I contacted Riviera and Mr F to say that I thought Riviera providing Mr F with the wrong 
information about whether the insurer would cover his car had caused the policy to be 
cancelled later than it would have done if it had given him the correct information when hed 
called up. As such I said Riviera should ask the insurer if it would amend the refund to reflect 
the date Mr F sold his car. And if the insurer wouldnt amend the refund then Riviera should 
pay Mr F that amount instead.
Riviera said the insurer wouldnt refund anything further, but Riviera would pay Mr F an 
additional £98.95 as this was the additional refund between when Mr F asked for a change 
of vehicle on 9 December 2019 and when the policy was cancelled on 16 January 2020. We 
put this amount to Mr F who didnt add any further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Riviera didnt respond to my provisional decision and accepted the finding in my subsequent 
email. Mr F accepted my provisional decision and hasnt provided any further comments to 
say he disagrees with the premium refund of £98.95. As such I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional decision and subsequent email.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
require Riviera Insurance Services Ltd to pay Mr F: 
£550, plus interest at 8% simple per year from the date he sold his car to the date it 
makes payment.
£98.95 as the difference in premium between what Mr F should have paid if hed 
cancelled his policy on 9 December 2019 and what he received when it was 
cancelled, plus interest at 8% simple per year from the date he received his premium 
refund to the date it makes payment.
£100 in vouchers if it hasnt already done so.
If Riviera Insurance Services Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr F a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman