DRN-3658700
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limiteds (VWFS) handling of 
her request to voluntary terminate a hire purchase agreement. Mrs M has been represented 
by Mr M in this complaint. For ease of reference I will refer only to Mrs M.
What happened
In May 2016 Mrs M was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement with 
VWFS. The agreement was for £96,773, with 47 monthly payments of £1,090, and a final 
payment of £37,501.  Whilst the agreement shows the monthly payments as £1,090, I 
understand the agreed monthly payments were for £1,130.
The agreement set out Mrs Ms right to end the agreement. The agreement said if she did 
this, VWFS would be entitled to the car, and half the total amount payable under the 
agreement. That amount was stated as £48,336. 
Mrs M said that she noticed faults with the car within a short time. She said the car had been 
in the garage for repairs on many occasions. She said it had done less than 25,000 miles 
and had a number of faults. She said she wanted to reject the car but VWFS were not willing 
to help her. 
She said she struggled to make the payments because the agreement wasnt affordable.
The quality of goods and affordability complaints are being dealt with under separate 
complaint references.
Mrs M said she tried to exercise her right to voluntary terminate the agreement in June 2019. 
She said VWFS ignored this request. This is the only issue Im considering in this decision.
Mrs M said she wrote to VWFS on 10 June 2019 explaining why she wished to reject the car 
 she sub titled the request to reject as part 1 of the letter. Page three of the same letter, 
the final page, contains her request to voluntary terminate the agreement. This is written 
under the heading Part 2.
Mrs M set out her wish to voluntary terminate the agreement if VWFS would not accept the 
rejection of the car. In the letter she said she had already paid, £45,315. She said this was 
£4,013 less than the amount required to pay half the total amount payable under the 
agreement. She asked VWFS to waive this amount due to the problems shed had with the 
quality of the car. 
She said VWFS did not respond to this letter. She said she wrote to VWFS on 26 August 
2019, including a copy of the 10 June 2019 letter, again exercising her right to voluntary 
terminate the agreement. She said she followed this up with letters in September 2019 and 
October 2019 confirming that she had voluntary terminated the agreement in June 2019.
She also said that she received a default notice on 9 July 2019 informing her that she 
needed to pay £7,405 by 22 July 2019 to end the agreement. She said she received another 
letter from VWFS on the following day correcting the figures given in the notice. She said 
she then received a default letter on 15 July 2019 informing her she needed to pay £6,274 
by 24 July 2019. She said these letters ignored the fact that she had already invoked the 
Voluntary Termination clause as set out in her letter of 10 June 2019.  
VWFS said they did not receive Mrs Ms letter of 10 June 2019. They said they didnt see it 
until it was provided along with another letter in August 2019. They said that voluntary 
termination was no longer an option by this time as they had terminated the agreement on 7 
August 2019 due to non-payment of arrears.
VWFS said they contacted Mrs M on several occasions in July 2019, by letter, by email, and 
by telephone, before terminating the agreement. They said this communication should have 
alerted Mrs M that they hadnt received the letter with her request to voluntary terminate the 
agreement. They said they didnt receive any contact from Mrs M until she wrote to them on 
24 August 2019, after they had terminated the agreement.
Mrs M was unhappy with VWFSs response, and she brought her complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. He felt it was reasonable for VWFS to 
terminate the agreement due to non-payment after they received no response from Mrs M to 
the notices they sent, and contact attempts they made after the 10 June 2019. He felt that 
Mrs M ought reasonably to have known that VWFS had not received her request to voluntary 
terminate the agreement.
Mrs M disagreed with the investigators outcome and submitted a detailed response of why 
she disagreed. Much of this focussed on her complaint about the quality of the car. In the 
response Mrs M said that she had seen VWFS contact notes. She said the notes 
demonstrated that VWFS raised a Voluntary Termination on 3 July 2019. She said this 
showed that they had received her letter of 10 June 2019. 
Mrs M said VWFS were aware that she was withholding payments because of the faults with 
the car. She said at no time had she told VWFS she would not pay the arrears.
She said she sent several emails and sent three letters to VWFS after the VT was ignored.
Because Mrs M didnt agree with the investigator, the matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mrs M was supplied with a car under a hire purchase 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look 
into complaints about it.Id like to reassure both parties that Ive considered and read everything theyve said and 
sent us, particularly Mrs Ms lengthy submissions. But, in line with this services role as a 
quick and informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of Mrs Ms complaint in deciding whats 
fair and reasonable here. That is whether or not it was reasonable for VWFS to terminate the 
hire purchase agreement when it did.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mrs Ms request to voluntary terminate
Mrs M said she submitted her request to voluntary terminate the agreement in a letter dated 
10 June 2019. Shes provided me with a copy of the letter, and an image of the envelope 
she said the letter was posted in. She said this was sent by normal post, and she had no 
proof of posting.
I dont doubt that the letter was sent. 
VWFS said they never received the letter. I agree with Mrs Ms comments: its possible it 
was mis-filed, lost in transit, or lost internally. We simply dont know.
VWFS Correspondence
VWFS wrote to Mrs M on 22 May 2019, 2 June 2019, and 8 June 2019 advising her of the 
amount of arrears due. 
On 3 July 2019 VWFS issued a notice of default to Mrs M. This explained she had to make 
payment of £3,392 by 22 July 2019 to avoid the termination of the agreement.
On 5 July 2019 they issued a further notice of default. This was because they discovered the 
previous one contained wrong information. The replacement explained to Mrs M that she 
had to pay the arrears by 24 July 2019.
VWFS said they called Mrs M on 31 July 2019 because she hadnt responded to the default 
notices. And they sent an email on the same day because the call wasnt answered.
Mrs M confirmed she received the notices.
A default notice is a statutory notice, required under the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Its 
purpose is to make sure consumers like Mrs M, are fully aware of the consequences of not 
making the payment.
In both notices, VWFS informed Mrs M that she was required to pay the arrears. And they 
explained that if she failed to make payment, VWFS would take enforcement action. The 
notice informed her that if she failed to pay the arrears before 24 July 2019, they may 
terminate the agreement, repossess the car, and she would also still owe the outstanding 
arrears, and all other payments due under the agreement.
Im satisfied that VWFS gave Mrs M sufficient notice that they would terminate the 
agreement if she didnt contact them and pay the arrears. They wrote to her to tell her about 
the arrears, and then sent formal notices warning her that if she failed to pay, they would 
terminate the agreement.
VWFS decision to terminateI have to decide whether or not it was reasonable for VWFS to proceed with the termination. 
Im satisfied they did not receive Mrs Ms letter of 10 June 2019, and Ive seen no evidence 
to persuade me that they deliberately ignored her letter. Im not concerned with the reason 
why they didnt receive it.
I say that because they didnt immediately proceed with the termination. They sent 
subsequent letters and notices, as described above, informing Mrs M what steps they were 
proposing. And Mrs M has confirmed she received these notices.
She said they thought they were automatically generated. She said she didnt respond 
because she thought they were considering her request to voluntary terminate. She said 
shed previously refused to pay the monthly payments so thought they were going through 
the same process.
But VWFS werent to know that. They clearly told Mrs M what steps they were taking, and 
the consequences of not paying the arrears. So I think it was reasonable for them to 
terminate when they received no response from Mrs M.
Termination of the agreement
Ive explained above why Im satisfied that Mrs M was given sufficient notice of VWFS 
intention to terminate the agreement. 
On 7 August 2019 VWFS wrote to Mrs M explaining that they were terminating the 
agreement. In another letter dated the same day, they confirmed they were seeking return of 
the car, or full settlement of the agreement. 
Mrs M said she wrote and emailed VWFS on 2 September 2019 and 11 September 2019. 
But this is several weeks after the agreement had been terminated by VWFS. 
So whilst I can understand Mrs Ms frustration that the agreement was terminated despite 
her late attempts to remedy the situation, I think it was reasonable for VWFS to terminate the 
agreement as the agreement had already been broken. Mrs M said she intended to make 
the payments  but VWFS had no way of knowing that, and I dont think it was reasonable to 
expect them to assume Mrs M would pay as she had done in March 2019. 
Repossession
Id expect VWFS to consider her current financial situation and treat her with appropriate 
forbearance when considering an affordable payment plan to clear any amounts outstanding 
under the agreement. I think this is fair and wont be asking them to do anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint about Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman