DRN-3644622
The complaint
Mr F complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Ald Automotive Limited (Ald).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ald, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr F acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law is the Consumer Rights Act (2015). That says, amongst other things, that 
the car should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Ald, who are 
also the supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods 
is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr F. The car here was about 
three years old and had already completed about 44,000 miles so I think a reasonable 
person would expect it to have some wear and tear.
The investigator has suggested that theres been a failed repair here and that the turbo 
failure and diesel particulate filter problems are interrelated. It seems clear that the turbo 
repair wasnt successful as the garage have explained they believe fragments from the turbo 
have contaminated the engine and led to its failure. But the turbo did fail after Mr F had been 
in possession of the car for about two years and if its failure was induced by problems with 
the exhaust system, and/or diesel particulate filter, Ald have suggested the fault would have 
been apparent earlier. Ive considered whether to ask Mr F to obtain an independent 
engineers view of the issue so that we can identify when the fault was likely to have 
occurred and whether it was developing when Mr F took receipt of the car  the point at 
which Ald are responsible for its quality.
But here I dont think its necessary to obtain further expert evidence. Thats because the 
relevant legislation says that when we think about whether a car has been of satisfactory 
quality we should also consider if it has been durable; and here Im not persuaded that has 
been the case. In June 2022 after Mr F had covered just 10,000 or so miles in the car, a 
garage report confirmed the car now needs a new engine and that the repair will cost in the 
region of £15,000.
I dont think a reasonable person would expect to have to replace an engine on a car after 
only 55,000 miles and I dont therefore think it is fair to suggest this car has therefore been 
durable. Mr F has provided the servicing records to show he serviced the car within the 
manufacturers recommended intervals so I dont think theres evidence the engine failed 
because of anything Mr F did wrong.
In those circumstances Ald should support the rejection of the car. I can see they have 
offered some assistance to Mr F, but I dont think theyve gone far enough.
Putting things right
Ald should collect the car at no cost to Mr F and they should end the finance agreement.
Theyll need to refund any deposit Mr F has paid and, as hes been deprived of that money, 
they will need to add interest to that refund.
Mr F understandably stopped using the car on 14 March 2022 when the issues were 
identified and Ald should therefore refund any finance instalments paid since then as hes 
not had use of the car. Mr F did, however, have reasonable use of the car prior to 14 March 
2022 and Ald should therefore retain payments made prior to that date.
Mr F has explained that he to pay for a report into the cars condition and that whilst he 
expected that cost to be refunded by a care policy he has; it hasnt been yet. Ive considered 
whether to ask Ald to refund that cost as it wouldnt have been refunded had the car been of 
satisfactory quality. But as Mr F has clearly already made a claim under his care policy and 
dont think it would be reasonable to ask Ald to refund it as well. 
Mr B has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to take the car back to the 
dealership on several occasions and hes had to stop using the car and find alternative 
means of transport. Hes also had to escalate his complaint to this service when I think it 
could have been resolved earlier. In those circumstances Ald should pay him £300 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Ald Automotive Limited to:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr F and end the finance agreement.
Refund Mr Fs deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement.
Refund all finance instalments paid by Mr F since he stopped using the car on 14 
March 2022. Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr F £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Fs credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman