DRN-4443988
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed and then withheld access to the funds in 
his bank account.
What happened
Mr P had an account with Barclays. In 2022, Barclays blocked the account. It then contacted 
Mr P and asked him for information about payments into the account. Mr P provided some 
information  but Barclays decided to close Mr Ps account. While it was doing all this, it 
removed the remaining funds in the account to a holding account. Mr P asked Barclays to 
release the funds. But Barclays said the information hed given wasnt sufficient to allow 
them to do so. Dissatisfied, Mr P complained to Barclays, and then referred the complaint to 
us.
Barclays now says it released the funds in May 2023  and that Mr P should have been able 
to receive the funds by visiting a branch. Mr P has subsequently got his funds back. Our 
investigator thought that Barclays had been following its legal and regulatory obligations 
when it blocked and closed Mr Ps accounts. But she thought that Mr P would have got his 
money back sooner if Barclays had told him it was willing to release the funds sooner. So 
she recommended Barclays pay simple interest on the amount in the account from 30 May 
2023 until Mr P got the money back in August 2023. She also thought Barclays should pay 
Mr P £100 to reflect the distress and inconvenience all this caused.
Mr P doesnt agree. He thinks he should get more. The complaint has been referred to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I reach the same conclusions as the investigator. Ill explain why.
Barclays, like all financial businesses, are subject to legal and regulatory requirements. 
These require Barclays to monitor transactions into and out of a customers account, and 
many mean they need to carry out a review at any time. And where Barclays carries out 
such a review, these requirements may require it to block use of the account.
The terms and conditions that applied to Mr Ps account also say Barclays can close an 
account by giving at least two months notice. In some circumstances it can close an account 
immediately. In this case Mr Ps account was closed immediately.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied Barclays acted in line with its legal and 
regulatory requirements, and the terms and conditions of the account, when it blocked and 
then closed Mr Ps account. I appreciate Mr P wants to know more about why Barclays did 
this. But when Barclays closes an account in these circumstances it doesnt have to give 
reasons  and nor would it be appropriate for me to share those reasons.
Ive next considered the delay in returning Mr Ps funds. I see that after Barclays closed the 
account, Mr P visited branch to withdraw the remaining funds. Barclays told him he could 
withdraw wages or benefits which are paid to the account, but for anything else hed need to 
provide information about those funds. There was then some back and forth, with Barclays 
asking for information, Mr P providing some information, followed by Barclays asking for 
further details about the payments into the account. This continued until early May when 
Mr P explained that some of the credits into his account related to cash hed previously 
withdrawn for his business. A few weeks after this, Barclays decided that it could release the 
funds to Mr P. But it doesnt appear Barclays told Mr P about this. Mr P says he didnt know 
the funds had been released until we told him about this in August 2023.
Id expect Barclays to complete its review in a timely manner. Here, I see Barclays took 
some time to review the information Mr P sent them and to go back to him to request further 
information. Mr P, equally, initially refused to provide some of the information Barclays asked 
for, and there were also some delays between Barclays asking for information and Mr P 
getting back to Barclays with a response. In the circumstances, and based on everything Ive 
seen, Im not persuaded the time Barclays took to look at things was unreasonable.
But after Barclays completed its review on 30 May 2023 it released the funds, but didnt tell 
Mr P it had done this. Mr P in fact contacted Barclays during this period for an update, and 
was instead told he needed to contact us. I dont think Mr P could have known that Barclays 
had decided he could have access to the funds  and had Barclays explained this, hed have 
access to the funds sooner. Mr P has therefore lost out because of this.
Putting things right
Where I uphold a complaint, any compensation I award is intended to put Mr P in the 
position hed be in if things had happened as they should have done.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded Barclayss review ought to have been 
completed sooner than it actually did. Im satisfied that Barclays was entitled to ask for 
information about these payments in line with its legal and regulatory obligations. But 
Barclays could have told Mr P the outcome sooner  and so although hes already had the 
funds back, he was deprived of the funds for longer than he should have. 
With this in mind, Barclays should pay Mr P simple interest  the rate is 8 per cent. simple 
per year  from 30 May 2023 until Mr P got the money back.
Ive considered the further losses Mr P has mentioned. He says that because the account 
was blocked, his business wasnt able to repay its credit card. He says he needed to take 
out a second charge mortgage over his property.
Ive thought about this. I note that Mr Ps business was a limited company. That means its a 
separate legal entity from Mr P. I cant hold Barclays responsible if Mr P chose to borrow 
money personally to repay the debts owed by the company. Moreover, the terms and 
conditions that applied to Mr Ps account said that the account was for personal use only, 
and mustnt be used for money relating to any business he runs. In the circumstances, I 
dont accept these losses are ones that Mr P can fairly recover from Barclays.
I accept, however, that all this would have been stressful to Mr P. Where I award 
compensation for distress or inconvenience this isnt to punish the business but to reflect the 
impact Barclayss actions had on Mr P. Much of the impact here was unavoidable  I accept 
that Barclays was able to close the account and block access to the funds while it looked into things. But I accept that the delay in getting back the funds was distressing. I therefore 
award £100 to reflect the trouble and upset this caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank PLC has already paid Mr P the amount it withheld. It 
should also pay Mr P simple interest (the rate is 8 per cent. a year) on this amount, from 30 
May 2023 until the date Mr P got the money back. It should also pay £100 for the trouble and 
upset it caused Mr P.
If Barclays Bank PLC is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give Mr P a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman