DRN-4032517
The complaint
Mr C complains about Bank of Scotland plcs, trading as Halifax, response to his claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr C, but I dont think Halifax have been unreasonable.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, as is the case
here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit
Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a
like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach
of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met.
Ive not seen a copy of the contract or the detailed design drawings as Mr C has explained 
he doesnt have those, and the merchant has gone out of business and can no longer be 
consulted. Early correspondence with the merchant suggests that the contract was to supply 
and design Mr Cs kitchen and that fitting was a separate contract between Mr C and the 
fitters who were recommended to Mr C by the merchant. I think that the fitting was likely to 
be a separate contract as I can see Mr C paid the fitters separately and not through his 
credit card.
In those circumstances, I think Halifaxs approach to establishing whether there had been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation upon which they could uphold a section 75 claim 
was a reasonable one. They paid for an independent inspection of the kitchen by a 
recognised industry expert. The quotations and comments Mr C had provided from third 
party kitchen companies couldnt fairly be considered to be impartial as they stood to benefit 
from them being given the contract to complete remedial work. 
The independent inspector said: 
There are remedial re workings of the design layout required {} The issues identified that 
require remedial work in my opinion, are a direct result of design plan inaccuracy which has 
impacted on the built under fridge and freezer accessibility.
So, as the merchant was responsible for the design of the kitchen and the inspector 
identified design plan inaccuracies I think Halifax were right to decide there had been a 
breach of contract.
The independent inspector suggested four areas of action in order to rectify the breach, they 
were:
1. Restricted access to fridge/freezer to be rectified.
2. Gaps around appliances and doors.
3. A heat deflector to be installed on the larder door.
4. Realignment of the fridge/freezer and washing machine door hinges.
I dont therefore think Halifax were unreasonable to offer to put the breach right in the way 
the independent expert had suggested.
With regard to point 1 Mr C has explained that the remedy the independent expert 
suggested cant be implemented and that the companies hed been in correspondence with 
had confirmed that. I note that the independent expert gave suggestions as to how the 
current problem could be overcome. He said:
In my opinion, there are two potential solutions which would rectify the restricted access into 
the fridge and the freezer which are: - Remove the two decorative end panels that the fridge 
and freezer door fascias are currently hinged to which would then create an additional 
36mm. Re hinge the doors (they would then open on the opposite sides) on to the oven 
tower unit and the other door fascia on to the 500mm hi line base unit. Alternatively 
exchange the 500mm hi line base unit for a 450mm hi line base unit (the fridge and freezer 
door openings would remain the same) this solution would create an additional 50mm.
Ive looked at what the companys Mr C has been in contact with have had to say about that, 
but I cant see they specifically referred to that issue or that they were asked to consider how 
practical the independent experts suggestions were. I dont therefore think I have sufficient 
evidence to suggest those resolutions are impractical. 
Mr C has explained that there are limited suppliers available to resolve the issues he has. 
Im not persuaded I have enough evidence to demonstrate a quote cant be provided and, if 
the original equipment manufacturer isnt available, I would think it may be feasible to 
commission a bespoke design. I dont think Halifax were unreasonable to rely on the opinion 
of an industry expert who had 35 years executive experience within the kitchen,  design, 
surveying and installation industry. I think, as our investigator suggested, if Mr C continues 
to have problems sourcing a supplier to carry out the experts remedial actions, he should 
talk to Halifax to see what other arrangements they can come to, such as a cost reduction. 
But on the basis of the evidence Ive been provided with I dont think Halifaxs response to Mr Cs section 75 claim has been unreasonable and Im not asking them to take any further 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman