DRN-3966286
The complaint
Miss G and Mr J complain that The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as Platform) caused 
delays with their mortgage application and property purchase. They ask for compensation. 
What happened
Miss G and Mr J were buying a property. In March 2022 they applied to Platform for a 
mortgage, via a broker. 
Platform initially declined the application when the valuer flagged what appeared to be an 
issue with the property title. The broker appealed the decision, sending written confirmation 
from the solicitor that the issue had been resolved. The valuer re-inspected the property in 
mid-May 2022 and provided a valuation. 
Miss G and Mr J say the application process didnt progress as it should, and they didnt 
receive a mortgage offer until mid-July 2022. Their purchase completed in late September 
2022.
Platform accepts that it continued to correspond about the title issue after receiving 
confirmation it had been resolved. It also accepts that it asked Miss G and Mr Js broker for 
information it had already received. It paid £100 to Mr J.
Our investigator said Platform caused avoidable delays and said it should pay compensation 
of £275 in total.
Miss G and Mr J didnt agree. Miss G said Platform should compensate them for the cost 
incurred due to completion being delayed  including two months rent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Platform received confirmation that the potential issue with the title was resolved in May 
2022. The valuer re-inspected the property in mid-May 2022 and provided a valuation report 
that was sufficient for funds to be released. Platform says the issue was resolved and 
clarified by the end of May 2022.
Platform accepts that it caused delays after this, and asked for information that had already 
been provided. It issued a mortgage offer on 18 July 2022.
I think its fair to say there was a delay in the mortgage offer being issued of about six to 
eight weeks due to errors by Platform.  
Miss G says they expected to move into the property in mid-July 2022 after completion of 
their purchase and renovation work. She didnt provide evidence a completion date in late 
June/early July 2022 was agreed with the seller. Miss G provided a rental agreement, which 
ends on 30 June 2022.
Miss G says the delay in the mortgage offer being issued resulted in completion being 
delayed by two months. They paid for rented accommodation and storage (about £1,300 per 
month including utility bills) in the meantime, and Miss G says Platform ought to compensate 
them for these costs. 
Miss G and Mr Js purchase completed in late September 2022  more than two months 
after the mortgage offer was issued. I asked Miss G and Mr J why this was. Miss G 
explained what happened after the mortgage offer was issued.  
Miss G and Mr Js solicitor emailed them on 25 July 2022 to confirm shed received the 
mortgage offer. The solicitor said outstanding matters included preparing a report with the 
result of searches and the sellers replies to enquiries. 
Miss G says theyd hoped to proceed on the basis of searches carried out for the previous 
sale, which were by this time a year old. Platform requires searches to be no more than six 
months old, and doesnt accept search indemnity insurance in place of this. Like all lenders, 
Platform is entitled to develop its own policies about what it finds acceptable. Miss G and 
Mr Js solicitor ordered property searches in late July 2022 which were returned in early 
August 2022. In late August 2022 the solicitor was still chasing responses from the sellers 
solicitor. 
It seems Miss G and Mr J had some questions following the searches, as at the end of 
August 2022, they emailed their solicitor with a number of queries. They were considering 
having a full structural survey, and had questions about insurance related to non-compliance 
with building regulations. Some of the issues related to shared access/facilities with the 
adjoining property. Miss G said theyd like to hold off completing until these issues were 
resolved, which they were a few days later. 
It was a condition of the mortgage offer that the legal adviser check the access rights to the 
property and that precise details of shared access rights were provided. This was because 
the valuer said it could affect the valuation. Mr J and Miss Gs solicitor confirmed this and 
provided the certificate of title to Platform on 6 September 2022, for completion on 8 
September 2022. 
Miss G and Mr J were in a position to exchange and complete in early September 2022. 
However, this was then held up by the conveyance of an adjoining property. 
The property Miss G and Mr J bought was in the same legal title as an adjoining property. 
These two properties were to be sold in succession, the first as a transfer of part and the 
second as a transfer of whole. 
The solicitor said in early September that the adjoining property was to be sold first as theyd 
been told it was due to complete imminently some time ago. In early September the seller 
confirmed the sale of the adjoining property was scheduled for 23 September 2022. 
Miss G says there was no reason that their own purchase couldnt have completed first 
(before the transfer of the adjoining property), and this would have been possible if there 
hadnt been a delay with the mortgage offer. The legal work would have been completed 
sooner, and their completion wouldnt have been delayed by the sale of the adjoining 
property. I understand her point, and it is possible events might have unfolded that way. But for me fairly to require Platform to pay compensation for Miss G and Mr Js purchase 
being delayed by two months Id need to find that its error was the only (or at least the main) 
reason for this. To put it another way, Id need to find that their purchase would have 
completed in July 2022 but for Platforms error. 
Had the mortgage offer been issued without delay, its likely the solicitor would have started 
the legal work, such as requesting searches and checking access rights, sooner. The 
solicitor might have received responses from the sellers solicitor sooner. But the issues 
related to the transfer of the adjoining property are less clear. 
Mr J and Miss Gs solicitor said in early September 2022 the transfer of the adjoining 
property was to happen first as theyd been told it was due to complete imminently some 
time ago. Its unclear when some time ago was. I dont know if Mr J and Miss G would 
have been able to agree with the seller that their transfer should happen first, and that this 
would be in June or July 2022. Whats also unclear is whether, if they had, their completion 
would have been delayed by the same or similar issue that held up the transfer of the 
adjoining property. 
I know Miss G and Mr J will be disappointed. But having thought carefully about this, I dont 
think I can fairly find that their purchase would have completed sooner if Platform hadnt 
made an error. It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Platform to pay 
compensation for the costs Miss G and Mr J incurred during the delay.
What is clear though is that this matter caused Miss G and Mr J worry and trouble, and I 
think its right that Platform pays compensation for this. There was an unnecessary delay in 
issuing the mortgage offer. During this time, Platform asked for documents it already had, 
and referred to a problem that it had been told was resolved. The broker would have been 
the primary point of contact with Platform. Nonetheless, this must have been inconvenient, 
worrying and frustrating for Miss G and Mr J. 
Taking all this into account, I dont think the £100 paid by Platform was sufficient. I think it's 
fair and reasonable to require Platform to pay compensation of £275 (in total).
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as 
Platform to pay £275 to Miss G and Mr J. It can deduct the compensation it has already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman