DRN-3972008
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim they 
made on their home insurance policy for subsidence.
As Mr D primarily dealt with things, for simplicity Ill refer to him only.
Reference to UKI includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr D got in touch with UKI in April 2021 about damage to his home. UKI appointed a 
loss adjuster, who accepted the damage had been caused by subsidence and was 
covered by the policy. The loss adjuster arranged for site investigations, including soil 
and drain testing.
The outcome of those investigations was shared with Mr D in September 2021. The 
loss adjuster confirmed the subsidence had been caused by vegetation drying the 
clay subsoil. It appointed an arborist to survey the nearby vegetation.
In January 2022, the arborists survey was shared with Mr D. It recommended 
removing various vegetation belonging to Mr D, which was later arranged. It also 
recommended removing trees belonging to his neighbour. The loss adjuster agreed 
to get in contact with the neighbour about this and did so a month later.
Shortly after, the neighbour agreed in principle to removal of their trees, subject to 
details about replacement trees. Discussions continued but, by June 2022, the 
details had yet to be agreed and the trees remained in place.
Mr D complained about the way UKI had handled the claim, particularly the time it 
was taking. UKI accepted there were delays and its communication was lacking. It 
conceded that Mr D had to chase matters and his queries werent always responded 
to in a timely manner. It offered him £600 compensation.
By late July, no further progress had been made and Mr D complained again.
UKI said it was taking steps to have the neighbours trees removed, but it couldnt do 
so without their agreement. It acknowledged continued communication issues and 
offered Mr D a further £100 compensation.
Our investigator didnt think £700 compensation fairly reflected the impact of the poor 
service UKI had provided. He said it should be increased to £900 based on what had 
happened up until UKIs complaint response in September 2022.
Mr D didnt think the increased compensation our investigator suggested fully 
reflected the distress and inconvenience he and Mrs D had endured during the claim.
UKI didnt agree to increase compensation. It acknowledged the service had been 
poor at times but it thought £700 was reasonable in the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The scope of this complaint is the way UKI handled the claim from the outset to its complaint 
response in September 2022. Im aware the claim has continued, and I understand Mr D has 
raised a further complaint about events since then. Thats being considered separately, so I 
wont comment on anything that happened after the September 2022 complaint response.
UKI is responsible for any agent it appoints, such as the loss adjuster and any companies 
carrying out investigations on its behalf. The scope of the complaint includes these agents. 
But I cant hold UKI responsible for any other parties, such as the neighbour.
Whilst Ive read and considered everything provided by both parties, I wont comment on 
each and every step of the claim in detail. That reflects the informal nature of this Service. Ill 
limit my comments to the points I consider are most relevant to my decision.
UKI has a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly. Its not in dispute that it failed to do that 
here. It accepts it caused avoidable delays and didnt communicate as proactively as it ought 
to have done. UKI has offered a total of £700 compensation as a result. The key question for 
me is whether that goes far enough to fairly compensate Mr and Mrs D for the impact of 
UKIs failures.
Looking back over the history of the claim, there were significant delays carrying out the 
initial investigations and establishing the cause of the subsidence problem. It took around 
nine months from the start of the claim to identify the relevant trees. I would usually expect 
that to be a much quicker process, perhaps around three months.
After that, there was a delay of around a month getting in touch with the neighbour. They 
agreed to remove the trees in March 2022  but by the end of the scope of this complaint, 
September 2022, the trees remained in place. This was because an agreement about 
replacement trees hadnt been reached.
Whilst UKI cant force the neighbour to agree, it can proactively and persuasively encourage 
the neighbour to do so. But initially it largely left Mr D and his tree surgeon to carry out 
negotiations, and, when it did get involved, it didnt always add meaningfully to discussions.
Its difficult to predict what the neighbour would likely have done had UKI dealt with this more 
effectively. Its possible that even with prompt and compelling contact, an agreement 
wouldnt have been reached. But at least then there would have been a clear and firm 
position with the neighbour and alternatives to stopping the movement could have been 
progressed. Instead, the matter continued, without tangible progress, over many months. So 
I think its fair to say several more months of delays were caused during this time.
During the claim, UKIs communication with Mr D was often reactive and slow. UKI has 
accepted that. It meant, particularly in the earlier stages of the claim, Mr D didnt know what 
was happening, or when he could expect the next steps to be taken. That would naturally 
have added to the distress and inconvenience of the delay.From the outset, Mr D was clear that his wife was seriously unwell, and that they planned to 
move home soon. The ongoing claim has made moving much more difficult than it ordinarily 
would be and has no doubt added to Mr and Mrs Ds difficulties.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied our investigators suggestion of £900 
compensation in total is reasonable, bearing in mind the length of the delays and the impact 
on Mr and Mrs D. If UKI has already paid any of the compensation amounts it previously 
offered Mr and Mrs D, it need only pay the remainder.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require U K Insurance Limited to pay a total of £900 compensation*.
*UKI must pay the award within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs D accept 
my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the award from the 
deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman