DRN-3046665
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc handled a claim for 
theft under their home insurance policy.  
What happened
 In January 2020, Mr and Mrs S home was unfortunately burgled. Several items were stolen, 
including a large quantity of jewellery. The burglars also caused damage to the doors and 
windows while entering and leaving the property, and when the police attended they caused 
some damage to an internal wall.
Mr and Mrs S submitted a claim to AXA under their home insurance policy for the above, 
and later for a damaged fence panel relating to the same burglary. AXA appointed its loss 
adjuster to investigate the claim. Following a visit to the property, the loss adjuster concluded 
that Mr and Mrs S were significantly under-insured. The sum insured for contents was 
approximately £40,000, but including the stolen jewellery the loss adjuster estimated the 
total value of contents in the property to be nearly £150,000. They were also concerned that 
several high value items had been added to the claim several months after the theft. After 
some investigation, the loss adjuster suggested that the claim should be settled up to the 
policy limit.
AXA then appointed a different loss adjuster to deal with the claim. In October 2020, Mr S 
gave a witness statement outlining his version of events. In his statement, Mr S said that the 
alarm in their home wasnt set on the day of the theft. AXAs loss adjuster recommended that 
the claim be rejected in full, referring to an endorsement on the policy requiring that all 
security features are in full operation whenever Mr and Mrs S are away from the home.
AXA declined the claim in full, and said this endorsement hadnt been complied with. AXA 
acknowledged that it had taken a significant amount of time to reach that decision, and that 
its loss adjuster should have considered whether the endorsements were complied with 
when the claim was first made. It offered £500 to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the delay.
Mr and Mrs S didnt think this was fair. Mr S said his statement was given nine months after 
the theft had taken place, and that he couldnt be sure that the alarm wasnt set. He also felt 
the endorsement on the policy wasnt clear and that it was unfair of AXA to rely on it. Finally, 
he said the theft had been incredibly stressful for him and his family, and that the claims 
process had impacted his mental health.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She said that on balance the alarm was most 
likely not in operation at the time of the theft, and that AXA had acted reasonably by relying 
on the policy endorsement. She also agreed that £500 was a fair reflection of the distress 
and inconvenience caused by the delay. 
But she agreed with Mr S that regardless of whether the alarm was set, the external doors, 
windows and gate would have been damaged when the thieves attempted to enter and 
leave the property. So she recommended that AXA settle the claim for the damaged window, 
French doors, front door and gate. She didnt think AXA should cover the damaged fence 
panel, as there was no evidence to suggest this was damaged during the theft and wasnt 
mentioned in any of the reports.
AXA accepted our investigators recommendations.
Mr S said that while he was satisfied the external damage had been settled, he still felt it was 
unfair to decline his claim for the stolen contents and damaged internal wall. He asked for 
the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S say they dont agree that AXA can rely on its endorsement to decline the 
claim. They say they were only asked about the alarm nine months after the theft, so they 
couldnt be sure whether or not it was operational. They also say they dont think the 
endorsement AXA relied on is clear enough.
Ive reviewed the policy schedule. The endorsement section outlines the following:
1. Protections clause
For any claim caused by theft or attempted theft, no cover is provided under Buildings 
(Section 1) or Contents (Section 2) unless all security features listed within your statement of 
fact are:
-Maintained in good working order; and,
-In full operation, whenever you are away from the home.
The statement of fact outlines that the property is fitted with a functioning alarm. So this 
needed to be in operation when Mr and Mrs S were away from the home. This is a 
significant term in the policy, so Ive looked to see whether it was drawn to Mr and Mrs S 
attention as Id expect. The first page of the policy schedule sent to Mr and Mrs S says its 
important that the endorsements are read and checked. The endorsements are then listed a 
few pages later and highlighted in a box. So Im satisfied that the endorsement was clearly 
drawn to Mr and Mrs S attention.
Ive also reviewed the witness statement, which was signed by Mr S in October 2020. In his 
statement, Mr S says that the alarm system wasnt set when they left home on the day of the 
theft, and that the neighbours werent alerted to the theft as their alarm hadnt sounded. Mr S 
now says this is incorrect, and that he actually cant recall whether the alarm was set. He 
says the alarm wasnt sounding when they arrived home on the day of the theft, but that may 
be because it only sounds for 15 minutes when triggered.
Ive considered Mr S comments. Although Mr S says he cant recall whether the alarm was 
operational, Im satisfied that he signed the witness statement saying it wasnt. If Mr S 
thought the statement was incorrect, he could have amended it or refused to sign it. Since 
the alarm wasnt sounding when Mr and Mrs S returned home, and neither the neighbours 
nor the police had been alerted by it, I think the alarm was most likely not turned on at the 
time of the theft.
So Im satisfied that the terms of the endorsement werent complied with. Im also satisfied 
that the failure to comply with the endorsement made a difference to the claim. I say this as had the alarm been operational the thieves may have been deterred from entering when it 
was activated, or they may not have had the time to steal the items they did. So I think 
AXAs acted fairly in relying on the above endorsement to decline the claim for the stolen 
contents.
Ive also considered the damage caused to the property during the theft. I agree with our 
investigator that any damage caused by the thieves attempting to enter the property should 
be covered  as its unlikely that the alarm being set would have prevented this damage. 
AXA has agreed to settle the costs incurred by Mr and Mrs S for the external damage to the 
front door, French doors, gate and window damaged in the theft so these items are no 
longer in dispute. 
Mr and Mrs S have also said the damage to a fence panel and internal wall should be 
covered. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that the damage to the fence panel was 
caused at the time of the theft. The panel isnt mentioned in the inspection reports, and in his 
witness statement Mr S said he wasnt sure how the panel was broken. So I dont think - on 
balance - that Mr S has shown this damage occurred during the theft, and I wont be 
recommending that AXA covers it.
The internal wall was damaged when the police forced entry into the property  but this was 
only necessary because the thieves had put the front door chain on whilst inside the 
property. Like the stolen items, Im satisfied that this damage was most likely as a result of 
the alarm not being set, as the thieves wouldnt have put the chain on the door if theyd been 
deterred from entering or staying in the property. So I dont think AXA needs to cover this 
damage.
Finally, AXA has offered Mr and Mrs S £500 to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused by their handling of the claim. I understand Mr and Mrs S have been through a 
difficult time, and having their home burgled has caused them a great deal of distress. But I 
can only award compensation where I think an error caused by AXA has resulted in 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience to them.
The claim was made in January 2020, and AXA didnt give an answer on the claim until 
November 2020. I appreciate there was some delay when it was determined that Mr and Mrs 
S were under-insured, and that this needed to be investigated. This delay would have been 
avoided had they reviewed the endorsements on the policy when the claim was originally 
made and asked whether the alarm was set. 
AXA also indicated to Mr and Mrs S that the stolen contents would be partially settled, which 
would have raised their expectations. Given the value of the stolen jewellery, the situation 
would have been very stressful for Mr and Mrs S. But I think £500 is a fair reflection of the 
distress and inconvenience caused by AXAs errors here, so I wont be recommending a 
higher award.    
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is AXA Insurance UK Plc needs to:Settle Mr and Mrs S claim for the damage caused to the French doors, front door, 
window and gate in line with the remaining policy terms.
Pay £500 for the distress and inconvenience it caused, if it hasnt done so already.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman