DRN-3369889
The complaint
Mr C complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined his critical illness claim. 
What happened
Mr C was part of his employers Group Life, Accident and Illness scheme. 
Mr C unfortunately became ill in June 2020 and was admitted to hospital with chest pains 
and pain in his left arm. He remained in hospital for several days. Medical staff were initially 
concerned that he had suffered a heart attack. Once tests were completed, Mr C was 
diagnosed with Myocarditis.  
Mr C submitted a claim to Aviva in July 2020. Aviva declined the claim as it said Myocarditis 
was not a condition covered under the policy. 
Mr C submitted further information in July 2021 and asked Aviva to reconsider the claim. He 
said he had only recently received medical information in support of his claim. Mr C said the 
medical evidence provided indicated he had suffered a heart attack. He pointed to his 
medical presentation when he fell ill, details of electrocardiographic changes, information 
that clots caused inadequate blood flow to his heart and that an MRI showed scarring to his 
heart. 
Avivas Chief Medical Officer (CMO), who had assessed the original claim, reviewed the 
information provided but didnt change the claims decision. Mr C was unhappy and 
complained to Aviva in November 2021. 
Aviva responded to the complaint in December 2021 and said the decision of its CMO was 
unchanged. It said the policy was very specific and benefits were only paid to members for 
certain clearly detailed illnesses and conditions, which had to meet the policy criteria.
Mr C remained unhappy and so brought his complaint to this Service. Our Investigator didnt 
uphold Mr Cs complaint as he thought Aviva acted fairly when it said Myocarditis wasnt a 
condition covered by the policy. Mr C didnt agree and so this came to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first of all want to be clear about the cover provided by critical illness policies. They provide 
cover for only a limited number of medical conditions, namely those listed in the policy terms. 
So even if a consumer suffers from a medical condition that could be described as critical, 
there is no cover provided by the policy if that particular condition is not listed as a covered 
condition in the terms.
In this case, Mr C was diagnosed with Myocarditis following his stay in hospital in June 2020. 
Im sorry to hear of this, and I dont doubt its caused him a great deal of worry and upset. 
Aviva has declined his claim on the basis that the policy doesnt cover this condition. So Ive 
looked at whether it acted fairly when it did this, taking into consideration Mr Cs assertion 
that he suffered from a heart attack. 
I can see that Mr C submitted information in July 2021 which he said shows he had a heart 
attack. Its clear he experienced chest and arm pain immediately prior to being taken to 
hospital and that staff were initially concerned he was having a heart attack. He also pointed 
to electrocardiographic changes when tests were carried out immediately following his 
admission to hospital. Mr C also provided information that suggested theres scarring around 
his heart following his illness. 
However, I can see that Aviva has relied on information, including a letter from Mr Cs 
Consultant Cardiologist dated from July 2020, that says that Mr Cs diagnosis was one of 
Myocarditis. So even though medical staff were concerned initially that he was having a 
heart attack, further tests were carried out and the diagnosis was acute Myocarditis with 
pattern typical of viral Myocarditis. In addition, when Mr C was discharged from hospital in 
June 2020 he was prescribed medication that treats bacterial infections. 
I think its fair for Aviva to rely on the diagnosis made by the medical professionals involved 
in Mr Cs care. They are the experts and their opinion carries the most weight here. I think 
Aviva acted fairly when it concluded Mr C suffered from Myocarditis and not a heart attack. 
Ive looked at the policy terms and Im satisfied the policy doesnt provide cover for 
Myocarditis, so I think Aviva acted fairly when it declined Mr Cs claim. 
I know that Mr C feels that Aviva should pay the claim as his symptoms were so similar to 
those of a heart attack, as outlined in the policy definition. However, it wouldnt be fair to ask 
Aviva to pay a claim on the basis that the symptoms of one condition were similar to the 
symptoms of another. In order for a claim to be paid, it needs to be established that a 
consumer has suffered from one of the specific conditions listed in the policy terms. 
I realise that my decision will disappoint Mr C, and I sympathise with the position hes in, but 
Im satisfied Aviva acted fairly when it concluded his illness wasnt covered under the policy.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022
. 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman