DRN-2709478
The complaint
Mr A complains that delays by EB Associates Group Limited (trading as Edward Bond 
Associates) (EBA) in releasing tax-free cash from his pension fund caused financial loss.  
What happened
Mr A wanted to take 25% tax-free cash from his pension fund managed by EBA. He wanted 
to make a specific investment with the money, but it took longer than expected for EBA to 
make it available. By that time the investment Mr A wanted to make had increased in price, 
compared to the date on which hed said he wanted to invest. So Mr A considers EBA 
caused him financial loss.
When Mr A first complained to EBA it didnt uphold his complaint because it didnt consider it 
was responsible for the loss he believed hed suffered. But it acknowledged Mr A had been 
unhappy with the service hed received, so it waived its £200 fee for arranging the tax-free 
cash drawdown.
Following the involvement of this service, EBA reviewed the matter again. In addition to 
taking his tax-free cash, Mr A had also wanted to switch the remainder of his pension fund to 
a different fund. It had taken over a year for EBA to arrange for Mr As fund to be moved to a 
new provider.
EBA accepted it had caused some delay in releasing Mr As tax-free cash. But it said it 
wasnt feasible for the cash to have been available by 5 May 2019, which was when Mr A 
had said hed wanted to invest. It said the earliest the cash couldve been available was 4 
June 2019. He wouldve received slightly more tax-free cash on this date, than he did on the 
date he actually invested, which was 23 July 2019. So on this basis, Mr A had suffered some 
loss.
EBA also accepted it had taken too long to move Mr As remaining fund to the new provider. 
But the timing of the move meant Mr As fund was worth more than it wouldve been if it had 
been moved without delay. EBA said the increase in fund value covered the loss associated 
with the tax-free cash delay. Which meant there wasnt any overall financial loss to Mr A.
EBA recognised that its actions had caused inconvenience for Mr A and it offered £200 
compensation. This was in addition to the fee waiver and £1,208 in backdated income 
payments.
Our investigator considered EBAs offer was fair. Mr A had previously been advised by a 
different firm, and EBA werent properly appointed to advise him until March 2019. The 
investigator didnt find that EBA couldve reasonably been expected to act on his behalf 
before that time. So he didnt consider EBA was responsible for any delay in dealing with Mr 
As pension benefits before that time.
The investigator was also satisfied that the earliest Mr As tax-free cash couldve been 
available was 4 June 2019. The investigator considered Mr A was able to invest more on the 
actual date of investment (23 July 2019) than he couldve done if the money had been 
available on 4 June 2019. 
The investigator accepted EBAs explanation that Mr As remaining fund shouldve been 
reinvested by August 2019, rather than March 2020. But he also accepted that if the fund 
had been invested as it shouldve been, it wouldve been worth less than it was when EBA 
reviewed the matter in December 2020. So the investigator didnt consider Mr As pension 
fund had suffered any loss.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He said in a phone call with EBA it had 
admitted it wasnt making his tax-free cash available. Mr A said he became very angry at 
that point and the money appeared about a week later. Mr A considered EBA had made a 
series of mistakes and had lied to him. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so the matter has been passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im also satisfied that EBAs offer is fair. Ill explain why.
Mr A was expecting to have his annual review with a financial adviser in late 2018. When the 
appointment wasnt arranged he contacted EBA to find out what was going on. Mr A had 
been a client of a different firm that was separate to EBA. He found out that the previous firm 
had transferred his business elsewhere. But from what Ive seen, Im satisfied that EBA 
wasnt responsible for the decision to move Mr As business to a different firm. So Im not 
persuaded that EBA caused any delay in accessing Mr As tax-free cash before it was 
appointed as his adviser.
When Mr A contacted EBA, the business had to get a letter of authority from him so that it 
could act on his behalf in connection with his pension. It seems there was some delay in 
providing that letter to the pension provider. But I dont consider it would be fair to hold EBA 
responsible for the letter not being received or being lost by the pension provider.
EBA became Mr As appointed representative in connection with the pension at the end of 
March 2019. Im satisfied that its responsibility for dealing with his instructions started at that 
point.
Following an annual review phone call at the end of March, EBA spoke to Mr A on 2 April 
2019 about the tax-free cash he wanted to take. During that call two other pensions were 
mentioned, and Mr A said he wanted to look at transferring one of them to the pension EBA 
managed. EBA told it him it would take four to six weeks to review the possible transfer. Mr 
A confirmed he was happy with this. 
EBA contacted Mr A later in April to say that the pension he wanted to transfer was a final 
salary pension, so it wasnt advisable to transfer it. Mr A accepted this. EBA also told him it 
would take another couple of weeks to access the tax-free cash, which Mr A also accepted. 
He mentioned the investment he was planning to make, but he didnt refer to any particular 
time frame for making the investment.
Mr A says the money only became available after he expressed his anger in a phone call 
with EBA. Ive noted everything Mr A has said, but the evidence Ive seen and heard doesnt 
support his claim that EBA were blocking access to the money. Although I can see Mr As 
strength of feeling was demonstrated in a letter he sent to EBA on 30 June 2019, in 
response to EBAs recommendation letter.EBA has set out in detail its process for dealing with tax-free cash drawdown requests. I 
consider the timescales its referred to are reasonable, and on this basis the drawdown letter 
shouldve been available to send to Mr A by 8 May 2019. 
The letter was actually sent to Mr A on 27 June 2019. It took him 26 days to return the letter 
and other documents EBA needed to process the payment. If EBA had sent the letter as it 
shouldve done on 8 May 2019, Im satisfied that the payment couldve been made on 4 
June 2019.
From what Ive seen and been told, even without any delays I dont consider it was feasible 
for the tax-free cash to have been paid to Mr A on 5 May 2019  the day on which hes said 
he wanted to invest. Im satisfied that without the delay the earliest the tax-free cash could 
be paid was 4 June 2019. 
EBAs evidence shows that the price of Mr As investment was lower on 4 June 2019 than on 
23 July 2019 when he actually invested. On this basis his loss was £1,255.49. 
EBA says Mr As remaining fund shouldve been reinvested in line with his instructions by 
August 2019, and I accept what it says. But EBA has provided evidence to show that if it had 
been invested without delay, it wouldve been worth less than it was when EBA reviewed the 
matter in December 2020. The value of the fund in December 2020 meant the loss referred 
to above had been absorbed, and there was no overall financial loss to Mr A.
Again, I accept what EBA has said. Im not persuaded Mr A has suffered financial loss, so 
there are no reasonable grounds on which I can ask EBA to pay him redress on that basis. 
loss.
But I think it is reasonable for EBA to pay the £200 compensation it has offered for the 
trouble and upset caused to Mr A. This is in addition to the backdated income payments it 
has made and fee waiver of £200.
Putting things right
EBA should pay £200 to Mr A if it hasnt already done so, in addition to the backdated 
income payments it has made and fee waiver of £200.
My final decision
My decision is that EB Associates Group Limited (trading as Edward Bond Associates) 
should pay £200 to Mr A if it hasnt already done so, in addition to the backdated income payments it has made and fee waiver of £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman