DRN-3830358
The complaint
Miss B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc lent irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss B applied for a loan for £5000 in April 2017 and a further loan for £2000 in August 
2017. HSBC approved the application.
Miss B complained that HSBC had lent irresponsibly. She said that at the time shed applied 
for the loans she was unemployed and was suffering from mental health issues.
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint, so Miss B brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought HSBC had carried out reasonable 
and proportionate checks and that the lending decision was fair.
Miss B didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending on our 
website, including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. In short, 
lenders must ensure that any credit that is approved is affordable and sustainable for the 
borrower. Ive kept this in mind when considering Miss Bs complaint.
The first loan Miss B took out was in April 2017 for £5000 over a term of 48 months with 
monthly repayments of £123.40. The second loan was in August 2017 for £2000 over 60 
months with monthly repayments of £44.69.
When offering lending, HSBC is required to ensure that it does so responsibly. It needs to 
carry out reasonable and proportionate checks in order to assess this. Theres no set list of 
checks that HSBC has to do, but the checks should be proportionate to the circumstances of 
each loan and should take into account factors such as the amount of the loan, the amount 
of repayments and the borrowers financial circumstances.
Miss B has said that she doesnt think HSBC acted responsibly when it lent to her. She says 
that at the time she applied for the loans, she already had a loan with another lender and two 
credit cards and an overdraft which was near its limit. Miss B says she took out the loans so 
she could pay her other debts.
Ive thought about whether HSBC carried out reasonable and proportionate checks. Ive 
looked at the information HSBC obtained when Miss B applied for the loans. Miss B had a 
current account with HSBC, so it had access to information about her monthly income and 
expenditure data. HSBC says that Miss Bs income matched the income she declared when 
she applied for the loans, and says that her current account was in credit, and that she had 
an overdraft facility available to use but which was not being utilised.
Because Miss B was a customer of HSBC, this means it was able to make a reasonable 
estimate of her income and expenditure each month, as well as monitoring how she 
managed her existing credit commitments. With this information, as well as the information 
that HSBC obtained from the credit reference agencies to flag any adverse credit records, I 
think the checks caried out by HSBC were reasonable and proportionate to decide whether 
Miss B would be able to sustainably met the loan repayments.
Ive gone on to consider whether the decision to lend was fair. Based on the information Ive 
seen about Miss Bs income and expenditure each month, Im satisfied that Miss B had 
sufficient disposable income to maintain the loan repayments after all her other financial 
commitments were met. Theres nothing in the information Ive seen to suggest that the 
loans werent affordable for Miss B, or that she was experiencing any financial difficulties at 
the time of the loan application.
Miss B has told this service that she experienced financial difficulties in 2019 and that she 
has engaged with a debt support organisation. Im sorry to hear about the situation that Miss 
B found herself in, however, I dont think these financial problems could fairly have been 
identified by HSBC and I dont think the lending was irresponsible.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 February 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman