DRN-4371797
Complaint
The estate of Mr H says that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) irresponsibly provided a 
loan to Mr H which it is now unfairly pursuing repayment of, in circumstances where it 
previously said the outstanding balance had been written off.
Background
In November 2018, Barclays provided Mr H with a loan for £17,000.00. The loan had an 
APR of 4.4% and a term of 60 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£18,956.40, which included interest, fees and charges of £1,956.40, was due to be repaid in 
60 monthly payments of £315.94. Mr H made the payments to this loan until he sadly passed 
away in January 2021. 
After probate was granted, in May 2021, Mr Hs estates (the estate) legal representative 
complained, on behalf of the estate, that Mr H shouldnt have been provided with the loan in 
November 2018. Barclays didnt uphold the estates complaint. 
Nonetheless, its final response of 30 July 2021 confirmed that the outstanding balance on 
the loan had been written off on 14 June 2021 as a result of Mr H passing away. Barclays 
has subsequently said that its complaint handler made a mistake in saying that the loan 
balance had been written off. In reality, the loan account was showing as having a zero 
balance because it had been passed to another area in line with its bereavement process.  
What remains in dispute here and effectively is the main crux of this complaint, is when the 
estate was notified of this error. On one hand, the estate states that it wasnt notified of this 
error ahead of the distribution of the funds. And, in its view, as the funds were distributed in 
good faith and in reliance upon Barclays statement in its final response, it is unfair and 
inequitable to require repayment of the loan at this late stage. 
On the other hand, Barclays says the state was notified the loan balance remained payable 
in advance of the funds being distributed and therefore it is reasonably entitled to recover 
this amount.
The estates complaint was considered by one of our investigators. And she thought it was 
unfair for Barclays to expect the balance on the loan to be repaid. So she thought that the 
balance should be written off and as the amount outstanding was more than the interest, 
fees and charges on Mr Hs loan, she didnt consider it necessary to consider the 
affordability aspect of the complaint as this wouldnt have changed the position.
Barclays disagreed with our investigators assessment and so the case was passed to an 
ombudsman for review as per the next stage of our dispute resolution process.
My provisional decision of 31 August 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 31 August 2023 - setting out why I wasnt intending to 
uphold this complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary 
of my findings. 
I started out by saying that it was my view that there were three separate issues for me to 
consider. I set out that I would consider each of them in turn. And I started by looking at 
whether Barclays needed to write off the outstanding balance on the loan.
Was it unfair for Barclays to ask the estate to repay the outstanding balance on the loan? 
As Id explained, there wasnt any dispute that in June 2021 Barclays informed the estates 
legal representative that:
Moving forward, the Loan was written off on 14 June 2021 with a zero balance as Mr H is 
deceased.  
Both the estate and its legal representative argued that this statement was reasonably relied 
upon when the funds from the estate were dispersed. And as a result, it was unfair and 
inequitable for Barclays to expect repayment of the balance at this late stage. 
I carefully thought about whats been said. 
However, as I understood it the legal representative was initially notified in April 2021 that 
there was an outstanding balance on the loan, which Barclays expected to be repaid. There 
didnt appear to be any dispute that this was the case, as the complaint regarding Mr H 
having been irresponsibly provided with the loan in the first place was made shortly after 
this.  
The final response to this complaint did suggest that the balance had been written off on      
14 June 2021 because Mr H had passed away. But I noted that there was also an 
outstanding balance on a Barclaycard credit card account. And I would have expected the 
legal representative to query why this balance wasnt also being written off in similar 
circumstances, as the loan was being written off due to Mr H being deceased. 
I also explained that I would also have expected the legal representative to know that a 
lender writing off the balance on a loan simply because the borrower passed away, in 
circumstances where the estate had assets, wasnt the norm. I also kept in mind that the 
legal representative had made a complaint that Barclays irresponsibly provided that loan in 
the first place. However, the final response clearly stated that this complaint wasnt being 
upheld. And there was no suggestion that the loan balance was being written off as some 
kind of gesture of goodwill either.
More importantly, while the estate had said that it wasnt notified about the correct position in 
relation to the outstanding balance until 5 January 2022, which was after the proceeds were 
distributed, the evidence that I had been provided with indicated that, at the very least, the 
legal representative was informed the balance hadnt been written off well in advance of this. 
I said this because I had been provided with recordings of phone calls between the estate 
management company responsible for notifying the legal representative of any outstanding 
balances and the legal representative. In the first of these phone calls, in November 2021, 
the estate management company contacted the legal representative to explain that as result 
of the legal representative sending correspondence disputing that a balance remained on 
the loan, it had gone back to Barclays to confirm whether one did. And Barclays had 
confirmed that a balance of £7,112.11 remained outstanding. The second of the phone calls I listened to took place in December 2021. During this phone 
call the estate management company once again notified the legal representative that a 
balance on the loan remained outstanding, as well as a Barclaycard credit card and a water 
bill. The legal representative stated that it was waiting for the sale of a property to complete 
but that it was still disputing the balance on the loan. In my view, all of this pointed to the 
legal representative, at the very least, being aware that Barclays didnt consider that this 
loan had been written off.
  
So while I accepted that it was possible that the estate itself might not have been made 
aware that the loan balance remained outstanding until January 2022, which was after the 
property was sold and the proceeds paid out, for the sake of completeness I went on to 
make it clear that I was not making a finding this was actually the case at this point, at the 
very least the legal representative was aware of this. 
In these circumstances, I didnt think that it was reasonable for the funds from the property 
sale and the rest of the estate, to have been disbursed while the legal representative was on 
notice that further funds could still be required to repay an outstanding loan amount. 
This was particularly the case given what I had already said about it being the case that the 
legal representative ought to have known that writing off a balance on a loan simply because 
the borrower passed away, in circumstances where the estate had assets, wasnt the norm. I 
explained that the estate may argue that at best it was only the legal representative that was 
made aware of the loan not having been written off before the proceeds of the estate were 
dispersed and it could not be held responsible for any liability. 
However, the legal representative was responsible for settling any liabilities before passing 
the remaining funds onto the estate. And the legal representative was made aware that a 
dispute remained over an outstanding liability. I was therefore satisfied that the legal 
representative was not entitled to continue placing reasonable reliance upon what had been 
said about the loan having been written off in the July 2021 final response. In my view, it 
ought to have been clear that the repayment of the outstanding balance on the loan 
remained in dispute.
Furthermore, I set out that if the estate was unhappy that this was information that the legal 
representative didnt pass on, before dispersing the funds, then this was a matter it needed 
to take up with the legal representative.
Overall, I was satisfied that the legal representative had been made aware that Barclays 
didnt agree that the outstanding balance on the loan had been written off, before the estate 
was finalised. As this was the case, I was satisfied that the legal representative (and by 
definition the estate) wasnt entitled to place reasonable reliance upon the statement in the 
final response and so this left me minded to conclude that Barclays did not need to write off 
this balance. 
Was the loan irresponsibly provided to Mr H in November 2018?  
  
The estate had also argued that notwithstanding what Barclays said about having written the 
loan off, it was, in any event, irresponsibly provided to Mr H in the first place. So I considered 
whether this was the case.
I went on to explain that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me 
provisionally decide Mr Hs complaint.Barclays needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, what this meant was that Barclays needed to carry out proportionate checks to be 
able to understand whether Mr H could afford to make his repayments before it provided this 
loan to him in November 2018. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to provide loans to a customer 
irresponsibly.
In truth, I thought that Barclays arguments regarding what it did to check Mr Hs ability to 
make his payments at the time and why this was sufficient, were bordering poor. And it 
hadnt really said much about what it did to establish that the loan repayments were 
affordable for Mr H before lending to him. 
Nonetheless, I understood that it was Barclays view that a credit search was carried out 
which showed Mr Hs existing commitments were relatively well maintained at the time, 
although it hadnt been able to produce the results of this. It also confirmed that this loan was 
provided for debt consolidation purposes, Mr H was an existing Barclays customer and it 
provided copies of his bank statements.
In Barclays view all of the information it gathered and it had since considered demonstrated 
that Mr H could comfortably afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the 
other hand, the estate said that it was irresponsible for Barclays not to settle Mr Hs existing 
debts directly and it also said that Barclays failed in its safeguarding as Mr H was suffering 
from dementia at the time.
I carefully thought about what the estate and Barclays had said. 
There had been some debate about the sales channel for this loan. But having considered 
the loan agreement it seemed clear to me that M H applied for his loan online. Nonetheless, 
Mr H was an existing Barclays customer. So I thought that Barclays would have had a 
reasonable amount of information about him before it decided to proceed with his loan 
application. And having considered the copies of the bank statements provided, it did look as 
though Mr H had the disposable income to make the repayments to the loan. 
I said this because when Mr Hs regular committed expenditure is deducted from his monthly 
income there are sufficient funds left over for Mr H to make these payments. Indeed, I had 
also seen the estate refer to Mr H also receiving rental income and having other sources of 
funding available to him too. And in these circumstances, I was even more persuaded of the 
fact that the loan was affordable.  
I also considered what the estate had said about Barclays lack of safeguarding. But I hadnt 
seen anything to indicate that Barclays was, or that it ought reasonably to have been, aware 
that Mr H may have been suffering from Dementia. Given Mr Hs statements also appear to 
show that he was managing his own finances at the time and this was an online loan 
application so Mr H wont have spoken to Barclays for it to be able to identify M Hs condition 
in the way the estate had suggested, I was satisfied that Barclays didnt unfairly fail to take 
account its safeguarding obligations.   The estate had also suggested that Barclays acted irresponsibly by not directly settling the 
debts Mr H was consolidating with his existing creditors. However, there wasnt a 
requirement for a lender to restrict funds provided for consolidation purposes by paying 
them directly to a borrowers existing creditors.
Furthermore, Barclays could only make a reasonable decision based on the information it 
had available at the time. It wont have known for sure that Mr H would have used the funds 
to reduce his indebtedness. But, in any event, this appeared to be a first loan Barclays was 
providing to Mr H for consolidation purposes and there wasnt a history of Mr H obtaining 
funds and then failing to consolidate debts elsewhere in the way he committed to either. 
So given the circumstances, I was satisfied that Barclays was reasonably entitled to believe 
that Mr H would be left in a better position after being provided with this loan, particularly as 
this loan had a much lower interest rate, of 4.4% APR, than any credit card balances Mr H 
would be consolidating. 
It was also my understanding that Mr H did go on to repay the balances on the debts he was 
looking to consolidate. Therefore, while I thought about the estates arguments in relation to 
Barclays not taking steps to restrict the way the proceeds of the loan could be used, I was 
not persuaded that this meant it had acted irresponsibly. 
Overall and having given careful thought to the arguments presented, while I had not been 
presented with sufficient evidence that Barclays did carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks before lending to Mr H, I was nonetheless minded to conclude that carrying out such 
checks wouldnt have prevented it from lending. As this was the case, this left me minded to 
conclude that Barclays did not irresponsibly provide this loan to Mr H.
Did Barclays act unfairly by using balances in Mr Hs current accounts to reduce the 
outstanding balance on the loan?
Finally the estate had also argued that Barclays unfairly used balances in Mr Hs current and 
savings accounts to reduce the outstanding balance on this loan. 
I acknowledged that the estate believed that Barclays wasnt entitled to take this course of 
action. However, the terms and conditions of Mr Hs Barclays accounts did permit Barclays 
to use the funds held in his accounts to reduce amounts that he owed.
I also added that offsetting amounts held against amounts owed when someone passed 
away is in line with good industry practice. Particularly, as it reduced the administrative 
burden of paying out funds to an estate only for them to have to be repaid again. 
Furthermore, as I had already set out that I was minded to conclude that Barclays didnt 
have to write off the outstanding balance on the loan, I was satisfied that Barclays offset the 
amounts that were in Mr Hs current and savings accounts against an amount that was 
legitimately owed. 
As this was the case, I was minded to conclude that Barclays didnt act unfairly or 
unreasonably towards the estate with regard to this matter either.  
So overall and having considered everything, I didnt think that Barclays acted unfairly or 
unreasonably and I wasnt intending to uphold the estates complaint. 
Barclays response to my provisional decisionBarclays confirmed receipt of my provisional decision. It said that it had noted my comments 
and wished to confirm that it did carry out checks regarding Mr Hs ability to repay his loan. 
But as it wasnt able to obtain evidence of these checks in a legible format, it carried out a 
retrospective income and expenditure assessment using Mr Hs bank statements. 
The estates response to my provisional decision
The estate also responded to my provisional decision. It stated that its concern wasnt that 
Barclays acted irresponsibly by not settling the debts Mr H was consolidating with his 
existing creditors, it was that it had not offered to do so.
The estate also maintained that lending £18,000.00 to an alcoholic with dementia, who had 
no clear need to raise funds was astonishing. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The estate has confirmed that its concern wasnt that Barclays hadnt settled Mr Hs existing 
debts it was that Barclays hadnt offered to do so. Ive thought about what the estate has 
said and Im sorry that it feels that its argument wasnt fully considered. 
Nonetheless, it remains the case that there wasnt a requirement for Barclays to offer to 
settle existing debts with the proceeds of loans  particularly as there isnt anything to 
suggest that Mr H had a history of failing to consolidate existing debts after taking out 
consolidation loans. 
Furthermore, I still havent been provided with anything to indicate that Mr H didnt repay the 
balances in question. So, in any event, Im not persuaded that Barclays not offering to repay 
Mr Hs existing balance made a difference here.
I appreciate that Barclays believes that it carried out sufficient checks before agreeing to 
provide Mr H with his loan. However, without any evidence of what these checks showed, I 
cannot take it as read that these were proportionate and showed the loan payments to be 
affordable. 
Nonetheless, as I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think that Barclays was aware, 
or could reasonably be expected to know, about the matters the estate has referred to. I 
appreciate that the estate considers it astonishing that Barclays lent £18,000.00 to Mr H 
given his circumstances at the time. 
However, as Im satisfied that the monthly loan payments were affordable (notwithstanding 
any cash withdrawals being made) and I dont think that Barclays was aware of the 
circumstances the estate has referred to, Im not persuaded that it was unfair for the loan to 
have been provided in these circumstances.
Overall and having considered everything, Im still not upholding this complaint. I appreciate 
that this will be very disappointing for the estate. This is especially in light of the time it has 
taken for the case to reach this stage and it was initially told that this complaint should be 
upheld. But I hope that it will understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that its 
concerns have been listened to.
Finally, I note that Barclays offered to make a payment of £150, in light of any distress 
experienced by the estate. As our investigator explained, Im not able to make an award for distress and inconvenience to the estate of a deceased complainant. Nonetheless, I 
understand that Barclays is still willing to pay the £150 it offered. 
The estate has confirmed that it will be contacting Barclays directly, albeit it isnt clear 
whether this is in relation to this offer, or other matters. In any event, I leave it up to the 
parties to resolve the payment of this amount for should the estate wish to accept Barclays 
offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 31 August 2023, Im 
not upholding the estate of Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman