DRN-3281838
The complaint
Ms B complains about QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) for its decision to decline her claim and void 
her buildings insurance policy. She wants QIC to remove the voidance from her history. 
What happened
Ms B purchased her buildings insurance with QIC in July 2017 via a comparison website. 
At the time of purchase, she was asked if any occupant of her home had been served with a 
County Court Judgment within 5 years. She answered no. 
QIC sent Ms B renewal information each year, and automatically renewed her insurance in 
July of each year. At renewal she was asked to confirm that no information had changed. 
From 2018 onwards, Ms Bs family member moved back into her home and was resident 
there. 
In October 2019, Ms Bs family member was served with a County Court Judgment at the 
address.
In July 2020, Ms B received her renewal information. She automatically renewed her policy 
and did not bring to QICs attention that her family member had received a County Court 
Judgment. 
In July 2021, Ms B again renewed her policy, and did not declare that her family member 
had received a County Court Judgment within the previous 5 years. 
In 2021 an accident occurred at Ms Bs home, in which a car hit her boundary wall. She 
submitted a claim to QIC. 
Whilst processing the claim QIC carried out a search and identified that an occupant of the 
property had received a County Court Judgment in October 2019. 
QIC wrote to Ms B and advised that it was declining the claim and also intended to void the 
policy back to July 2021. 
Ms B complained. She stated that she had not known about the Judgment and that her 
family member had not been an occupant of the property when she completed the 
information. She felt it unfair that an error could have such a severe impact upon her. 
QIC rejected her complaint. QIC accepted that Ms B had not deliberately misrepresented the 
position, but maintained its decision to void the policy. QIC offered to refund Ms Bs 
premiums for 2021, and after further exchanges with Ms B agreed to void the policy back to 
its original inception in 2017 and refund all of her premiums. 
Ms B remained unhappy and contacted us. 
One of our investigators looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties. This was 
that QIC had been entitled to void the policy and that in refunding premiums back to 2017 it 
had gone beyond what it was required to do. She therefore did not uphold the complaint and 
did not recommend that QIC do anything further. 
Ms B did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms Bs upset. I appreciate that the decision to void a policy is a serious thing 
and will need to be declared in future. I understand that this will likely cause difficulties for 
Ms B in obtaining cover in future and why she wishes this to be removed from her record. 
I also note the explanations provided by Ms B about what she understood and knew about, 
and that she did not read the documentation thoroughly at each renewal to know what 
needed to be updated.
I sympathise with Ms B as she has explained that this was not a deliberate 
misrepresentation, and QIC has accepted that. As the policy holder, however, Ms B is 
responsible for the accuracy and completeness of information she provides to her insurer. 
My colleague has previously set out the relevant legislation and what this requires. The 
question she was asked at policy inception was clear and was accurately answered. 
At her renewals in 2018 and 2019, Ms B was asked to update any changes, and the 
literature was clear that it was her responsibility to check the information the agreement was 
based on and to correct it if it was wrong. On those years there was no change to update. 
From the 2020 renewal onwards, however, the information became inaccurate and needed 
to be corrected. The renewal information made clear that QIC needed to know if any 
occupant of the property had received (amongst other types of outcome) a County Court 
Judgement. By not updating QIC at that time she was from that time onwards 
misrepresenting the circumstances. 
QIC made clear in the literature how important it was to check the information, and what the 
consequences of providing inaccurate information could be, including that a policy be 
voided. Ms B did not properly check this or meet her responsibilities as policy holder. I 
appreciate why, but QIC asked clear questions and inaccurate information was not 
corrected. 
As my colleague explained, the relevant rules set out the steps QIC can take in these 
circumstances. QIC has demonstrated that it would not have provided cover had it known 
that Ms Bs family member and occupant of the property had received a County Court 
Judgment, and so it is entitled to void the policy back to the beginning of the period when the 
misrepresentation was made (in this case July 2020). 
QIC has refunded the premiums, in line with the rules, and has also voided the policy back to 
2017 and refunded the premiums further than it was required to. I cannot say that this is 
unfair. 
Consequently, whilst I sympathise with Ms B, I agree with my colleagues view that QIC has 
acted in line with the relevant rules and has not acted wrongly. I understand this will be disappointing to Ms B but for this reason I do not uphold her 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Ms Bs complaint and do not ask QIC Europe 
Ltd to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman