DRN-3417697
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs D, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs D acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant legislation is the Consumer Rights Act (2015). That says, amongst other things, 
that the car should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then VWFS, 
who are also the supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality 
of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other 
relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mrs D. The car here was brand-
new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
I think its clear there have been significant faults with the software in this vehicle from the 
beginning. Ive seen garage reports that show repairs being completed and its clear the 
initial repairs were unsuccessful, and that Mrs D is still experiencing problems with the car.
The relevant legislation allows a business one opportunity to fix a fault present when the car 
is supplied, but if the fault persists they should allow the consumer to reject the car. VWFS 
approved that in October 2021 and Id agree with their decision to do so.
Putting things right
In those circumstances this service would usually expect the business to, end the 
agreement, collect the car, pay some compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused, refund the deposit, and refund the finance instalments paid. But the relevant 
legislation allows the business to retain some of the finance instalments to compensate it for 
the use the consumer has had from the vehicle.
VWFS have agreed to take the car back, end the agreement, pay £250 compensation, 
refund the deposit and refund half of the finance instalments Mrs D has paid.
Mrs D didnt have use of the car between for a couple of months in July/August and 
September/October 2021. Ive also seen that shes had to take the car back to the 
dealership in 2022 and hasnt had full use of it as shes explained shes been plagued by 
software issues that affect things like the speedometer, warning lights, satellite navigation 
and connectivity. The dealership provided courtesy cars to keep Mrs D mobile whilst her car 
was with them being fixed, but it seems those cars werent to the same standard as Mrs D 
expected. Taking all of that into account, however; I think VWFSs offer to refund half of the 
instalments paid is a very fair one. Whilst the car has been experiencing problems that Im 
sure would have been annoying, its still been driveable, and I think its fair to suggest Mrs D 
has benefitted from the majority of its functionality.
There appears to have been some confusion over the deposit to be refunded. VWFS initially 
suggested that was £1,260 but the finance agreement explains that an advanced payment of 
£2,360 was made and I think thats what should be refunded to Mrs D, with interest as shes 
been deprived of that money. 
Mrs D has experienced further inconvenience since the business offered her £250 
compensation in August 2021. Shes had further faults and has had to take the car back to 
the dealership and in those circumstances I would agree with our investigators suggestion 
that VWFS should pay Mrs D a further £100 in compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to:
Allow Mrs D to reject the car and end the finance agreement.
Collect the car at no cost to Mrs D.
Refund the deposit of £2,360 that has been paid and add 8% simple interest* per 
year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund the finance instalments, retaining half of those paid in respect of the use   
Mrs D has had from the car. Add 8% simple interest* per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mrs D a further £100 to compensate her for the additional distress and 
inconvenience shes experienced.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs Ds credit file in relation to 
this issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires VWFS to take off tax from this interest. VWFS must give Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mrs D asks for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman