DRN-2733214
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about the way BUPA Insurance Limited has handled claims they 
made on their private dental insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs R was a beneficiary of a group private dental insurance policy. The policy year ran from 
2 June 2019 until 1 June 2020. In 2019, Mrs R suffered a cracked tooth and ultimately, 
extraction and implant treatment were planned. Mrs R paid a deposit for the planned 
treatment. However, Mrs R was unfortunately diagnosed with a medical condition and was 
then prescribed medication. Her consultant advised her against undergoing the dental 
treatment while her medical condition was being treated and to allow her to become 
accustomed to the medication she was receiving. This meant Mrs Rs treatment was delayed 
by a few months.
And on 23 March 2020, national lockdown was imposed by the UK government as a result of 
the Covid-19 pandemic. This led to the closure of NHS and private dentists to prevent the 
virus spreading. This meant Mrs R was unable to undergo the treatment shed planned 
before the group scheme was due to expire. She also suffered a second cracked tooth in 
mid-May 2020. Mrs R said she called BUPA which simply suggested she take pain relief 
medication until dentists reopened.
Subsequently, the group scheme lapsed at renewal and instead, Mrs R took out a new, 
personal private dental insurance policy on 2 June 2020. Following the reopening of dental 
practices in June 2020, Mrs R was able to undergo treatment for her second cracked tooth 
on 12 June 2020 and intended to make a claim for the costs associated with the treatment.
However, BUPA let Mr and Mrs R know that the claim for Mrs Rs treatment would need to 
be considered under the terms of the new, personal policy. Thats because shed undergone 
treatment during the term of the new policy year. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt think BUPAs position was reasonable. They said Mrs Rs tooth had 
cracked while the old group policy had still been in force. And they said that Mrs Rs original 
treatment had been planned while the group policy had been active. So they felt BUPA 
should deal with the claim under the terms of the group policy, which also appeared to have 
covered dental implants in some circumstances. They asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld. He felt the policy 
terms and conditions made it clear that BUPA would assess claims in line with the date of 
treatment  which meant Mrs Rs claim would be considered in accordance with the 2020-21 
private policy terms. Hed also noted that BUPA had no record of Mrs R calling it to discuss 
her cracked tooth in May 2020; so he didnt think there was enough evidence to suggest itd 
denied her emergency treatment.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed. They maintained that Mrs R had called BUPAs emergency number 
and had been told there was no face-to-face treatment available and had instead been 
offered a telephone consultation. They felt that as thered been no treatment available in 
May 2020, BUPA should assess the claim in line with the old policy terms, rather than the 
new policy terms. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide. I need to make it clear that this decision will 
only look at whether BUPA handled Mrs Rs claim fairly. Ive considered a complaint about 
the premiums BUPA charged for the old, group policy during the Covid-19 lockdown 
separately. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think BUPA has treated Mr and Mrs R fairly. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs R that while Ive summarised their detailed responses to 
our investigator, Ive carefully considered all theyve said and sent us. In making my decision 
though, I havent commented on each and every point theyve raised and our rules dont 
require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issue. 
When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of their contracts 
with BUPA as well as other relevant considerations such as the law and industry guidance. 
Is it fair for BUPA to pay Mr and Mrs Rs claim under the 2020-21 policy?
Ive first considered the policy terms of both the old group scheme and the new private 
policies, as these formed the bases of Mr and Mrs Rs contracts with BUPA. Both policies 
include a section called General Rules on Benefits. And in each of these policies, the 
contract says:
BUPA agrees to pay benefits in respect of treatment received by you and each of your 
dependants in accordance with the terms and conditions of your membership when the 
treatment was received provided that whoever receives the treatment does so during their 
period of membership. (Bold is my emphasis).
I think this term makes it clear that BUPA will only pay claims once treatment has been 
completed. In this case, while I dont dispute Mrs Rs testimony that she suffered a second 
cracked tooth during May 2019 while the group policy was in force; its clear that she didnt 
undergo treatment until June 2020, after the new, personal policy had begun. And as I 
understand it, she hadnt undergone the original treatment when the complaint was brought 
to us. So on a strict interpretation of the policy terms, I think it was reasonable for BUPA to 
conclude that the claim for Mrs Rs treatment costs in June 2020 should be considered 
under the 2020-21 personal policy, rather than the 2019-20 group policy.
Its clear Mr and Mrs R feel strongly that as BUPA didnt provide emergency treatment during 
the group policy year, it should deal with Mrs Rs claim in line with the old policy terms. But 
while Mrs R says she sought help from BUPA in mid-May 2020, theres no record of this call 
or what information Mrs R mightve been given. And despite the investigator asking Mr and 
Mrs R if they could provide evidence which mightve allowed us to consider this point further, 
nothing more has been provided. Its also the case that at this point, BUPA was providing 
virtual dental emergency services. So I think it wouldve been open to Mrs R to access 
treatment at this point had she considered the situation to be an emergency.
On this basis then, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to find that BUPA should depart from its policy terms and consider Mr and Mrs Rs claims under the old group 
terms. This means I think its fair for BUPA to consider Mrs Rs June 2020 claim for 
treatment in line with the terms of the 2020-21 personal dental policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman