DRN-2235590
The complaint
Ms F has complained about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold to her in 
1999. 
AXA France IARD (AXA), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale. So, in my decision, 
Ill just refer to AXA as the seller. Ms F says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
The adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. They said that Ms F was suffering with a 
pre-existing medical condition (PEMC) that she wouldnt have been able to claim for, which meant 
the PPI was less useful to her. 
Since the adjudicator felt AXA hadnt made the relevant policy terms clear to Ms F at the time of 
the sale, and they would have made a difference to Ms Fs decision to take the PPI, they asked 
AXA to compensate Ms F for the premiums shed paid, plus interest.
AXA wanted to appeal against the adjudicators findings. The case was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to review afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Ms Fs case.
Having done so, I consider that the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
I believe the policy terms likely meant Ms F wouldnt have been able to claim for her PEMC. And I 
havent seen enough evidence to show AXA brought the relevant policy terms to Ms Fs attention 
at the time of the sale as it should have.
I think AXAs failings significantly affected Ms Fs decision to take the PPI. I say that because shes 
told us her PEMC was long-standing and had previously affected her ability to work. Ive no reason 
to doubt what shes said, and I think the condition would have been a major factor in her deciding 
whether or not to go ahead with the PPI.
Taking everything into account, I find that Ms Fs lost out because of how AXA sold her the 
PPI. That being the case, I believe it should put things right for her as explained below.
Putting things right
AXA should put Ms F in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
A. AXA should find out how much Ms F would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Ms F owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms F would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Ms F would have owed each month without PPI  Ms F 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms F paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms F would 
have owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. AXA should tell Ms F what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Ms F a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im upholding this complaint. I require AXA France IARD to put things right 
for Ms F as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman