DRN-3215774
The complaint
Miss G complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma Loans unfairly 
defaulted two loan accounts at a time when she was trying to set up a repayment plan.
What happened
Miss G had two loans from Satsuma which were affected by Satsumas decision to default 
the accounts.
Loan 1 was taken on 14 August 2019 for £900. Miss G was contracted to make 12 
monthly repayments of £149.90. 
Loan 2 was granted on 10 October 2019 for £300. Again, Miss G was contracted to 
make a total of six-monthly of £94.80. 
However, as these loans overlapped, Miss Gs total monthly commitment to Satsuma was no 
more than £244.70 per month.
  
Ive gone into quite a bit of detail below around the circumstances that led to the accounts 
being defaulted, because it will help to add context to what is discussed in the my findings 
part of the decision. The information below has been taken from Satsumas final response 
letter as well as the contact notes that it has provided. 
Miss G made her first three contractual repayment for loan one and her first contractual 
repayment due for loan two. No further contractual repayments were made to Provident after 
December 2019. 
I can see that at the end of December 2019 there was a conversation between Satsuma and 
Miss G where shed explained she had been off work ill, and so didnt have the money to 
make the next payment. Satsuma then applied a hold on to the account, with Miss G due to 
recommence contractual repayments in February 2020. 
At the end of January 2020 there was a further call, in which Miss G explained she had still 
been off work ill and so couldnt make her payment which was due in February 2020. 
Satsuma applied a further 30 day hold to the account where no payments were expected. 
In February 2020 Miss G told Satsuma she was back at work and would receive her next 
salary at the end of March. Satsuma applied a further payment freeze until then. However, 
on 20 March 2020 Satsuma was told that due to the COVID-19 pandemic Miss Gs 
workplace was affected and her salary was reducing. This led to another breathing space 
being added to the accounts. 
On 30 April 2020 Miss G emailed Satsuma with an update explaining that she still couldnt 
make a payment because of the pandemic. 
A further freeze was applied to the account on 3 May 2020 due to Miss G being on furlough. 
At the end of May 2020 Miss G told Satsuma that she had received a salary, but this was 
just enough to cover her bills and so couldnt make any repayments to Satsuma. 
Satsuma asked Miss G for an income and expenditure form; however, no response was 
received. So, the payment arrangement was removed from the account and a default notice 
sent to Miss G on 12 June 2020. The default notice required Miss G within 28 days to either 
repay the loans or come to an arrangement with Satsuma to make the repayments. 
Miss G contacted Satsuma on 6 July 2020 and it was agreed that reduced repayments 
would start from 5 August 2020. But repayments werent made and Satsuma removed the 
arrangement. Shortly, after the payment arrangement failed Miss G made an irresponsible 
lending complaint. No further details have been provided about the irresponsible lending 
complaint. 
In November 2020, a new plan was agreed where Miss G would repay £10 per month to 
each loan account for the next three months, after this time there was an expectation that 
Miss G would return to her regular contractual repayments. I can see from the statement of 
account that these payments were made between December 2020 and February 2021. 
In March 2021, Miss G informed Satsuma that she couldnt afford to return to pay the 
contractual repayments. Satsuma was aware that Miss G was no longer on furlough and 
Miss G says work was slow to return to normal. Satsuma sent Miss G an income and 
expenditure form and then held the account for seven days to enable her to complete and 
return it. 
On 17 March 2021 Miss G returned the income and expenditure form. Satsuma then 
responded to ask Miss G some security questions to enable it to discuss the account. 
However, Miss G didnt respond and Satsuma after attempting to reach Miss G and failing. 
As no contact was received Satsuma took the decision to default the two accounts on 
12 April 2021. 
Miss G then made a new complaint about what had happened and Satsuma issued its final 
response letter on this matter on 4 May 2021. In it, Satsuma concluded that it had tried to 
assist Miss G but without contact the accounts had defaulted and been passed to a third-
party collection agency. 
Unhappy with this response, Miss G referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and he said it shouldnt be upheld. She provided 
the background to the complaint and she thought that Satsuma had treated Miss G fairly 
when it was made aware of her difficulties caused by the pandemic. She thought it was 
reasonable, given what Satsuma knew that it agreed a repayment plan in November 2020.
 
She also thought it was reasonable for Satsuma to rely on the June 2020 default notice, 
when the payment plan broke down in March / April 2021, which led her to conclude that 
Satsuma hadnt made an error with the way it dealt with Miss G.
 
Satsuma didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment. 
Miss G didnt agree with the adjudicators recommendation. In summary she said.
Miss G says Satsuma told her that it couldnt open the income and expenditure form 
that she had sent. 
Miss G didnt receive a copy of the default notice. 
She didnt receive any notification from Satsuma that it was going to default the 
account. The adjudicator went back to Miss G to explain why her comments hadnt changed her mind 
about the outcome of the complaint. Miss G still didnt agree with the outcome but didnt 
provide any new comments beyond what she had already told the adjudicator. 
Later, Satsuma provided some further information to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
including confirming it had taken the decision to write off the outstanding balance that was 
owed in December 2021  due to the current trading position of the company. Satsuma also 
confirmed the defaults have been marked as satisfied on Miss Gs credit file. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pandemic support
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, in April 2020 the industry regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) released guidance to lenders  such as Satsuma as to how they ought to 
deal with consumers who were having problems directly related to the pandemic. 
In this case, I can see that for Miss G, Satsuma put in place a number of payment holidays  
but importantly these started before the pandemic took hold and before the guidance issued 
by the FCA was released. Importantly, it seems that Miss G was having financial difficulties 
before the guidance was issued. And I note that shed not made a contractual repayment to 
either loan since December 2019. 
In any event, I can see that Miss G was given a number of payment deferrals both before 
and during the pandemic, which I think was the right thing to do and is in my view, evidence 
to show that Satsuma treated Miss G fairly. 
Recording a default
As Ive explained above, Miss G had made her first repayment due for loan one and had 
made her first payment due for loan two, but from December 2019, no further contractual 
repayments were made. 
At which point Satsuma, in December 2019 agreed a payment freeze with Miss G. As soon 
as it did this Miss G had not kept to the schedule of repayment. This meant as soon as she 
went into the payment freeze her account wouldve fallen into arrears and adverse credit file 
information couldve been reported to the credit reference agencies at this time. 
But no payments were made, partly because of the pandemic, but equally, some of the 
missed payments were made before the FCA guidance (which Ive mentioned above) came 
into force. So when, Satsuma couldnt reach Miss G in June 2020 I think it was reasonable 
for the default notice to be sent because the account was sufficiently in arrears for a notice 
to have been sent. 
Miss G says that she didnt receive a copy of the default notice. The Financial Ombudsman 
Service asked Satsuma for information relating to this. It has explained that an actual copy of 
the notice cant be provided  but that wouldnt mean I can conclude an error had been 
made. Satsuma has provided a system note showing that on 12 June 2020 a default notice was 
issued. So, Im satisfied that on that date, the notice was sent, and for the reasons Ive 
explained I think, at this point, it was the correct course of action to have taken. 
In addition, Satsuma has shown that it was sent to the address that Miss G had provided it 
when the loans were granted, and which was then re-confirmed as being correct in both April 
and September 2020. 
It would therefore be reasonable to conclude that the system note shows that the default 
notice was generated and therefore wouldve been sent to the address that Satsuma had for 
Miss G. 
A template of the default notice has also been provided, so I can see what the notice sent to 
Miss G wouldve contained. Having looked at this template, it is clear the templated notice 
contained everything it needed to do. It wouldve explained;
the arrears that were on Miss Gs account. 
what she needed to do in order to prevent the account from defaulting and 
the timescale that she had  28 days in order to take the above action. 
I appreciate that Miss G says that the notice wasnt received but based on the evidence 
provided by Satsuma Im satisfied that on balance, a default notice was created and 
dispatched to the correct address. 
It is of course possible, that Miss G didnt receive a copy of the notice  I have no way of 
knowing for sure. But its worth saying that Satsuma only has to provide evidence of the 
notice being sent, not that the notice was actually received. And given this was at the start of 
the pandemic it is entirely possible the notice wasnt delivered. But that wouldnt be an error 
on the part of Satsuma. 
However, it was reasonable at the time for a default notice not to be applied in July 2020 
because the system notes shows that Miss G contacted it at the start of July 2020 and within 
the 28 days the default notice provided her in order to set up a repayment plan. 
Shortly, after the first repayment plan was created in July 2020, Miss G didnt stick to it, and 
so, Satsuma may have been entitled at this point to record a default. But, shortly after the 
missed payment a complaint was raised by Miss G Satsuma may have thought it reasonable 
not to apply one given there was an ongoing complaint. 
A £10 per month, per loan repayment was then set up and agreed between Satsuma and 
Miss G in November 2020. Miss G stuck to the repayments of this plan  albeit the 
January 2021 payment was late. 
I also accept that based on the contact notes that Satsuma provided at the start of March 
2021 it was working with Miss G to create a new repayment plan because it was clear, given 
what 
Miss G had said she was unable to return to normal contractual repayments. This was a 
reasonable step, and still not enough in my mind to default the account at this point because 
there was communication and Satsuma was aware of what was going on.
Satsuma also provided a further hold on the account for seven days to allow Miss G to 
complete the income and expenditure form. The income and expenditure form were returned 
within the seven-day period given to Miss G by Satsuma. But Satsuma contacted Miss G 
shortly on the same day (17 March 2021) with the income and expenditure information 
asking for security information. I can see no response was received to this request, and no response was received to a 
phone call made to Miss G on 9 April 2021. It was shortly, after this contact, that given no 
repayment plan was in place and the account was sufficiently in arrears that Satsuma 
defaulted the account and recorded it with the credit reference agencies. 
In my view, the actions of Satsuma are consistent with the guidance issued by the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO). The ICO is the body created which deals with an 
individuals data, and it has released a document called Principles for the Reporting of 
Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies. It is entirely reasonably 
to rely on this, because in my view, it constitutes good industry practice.
Principle 3 is entitled If you offer or make a reduced payment, how it is reported will depend 
on whether it is agreed with the lender.
It goes on to say:
Should a temporary reduction in the payment amount be jointly agreed between you 
and your lender, this arrangement will be recorded at the CRAs.
and
If your lender agrees to give you a temporary arrangement, but you fail to make the 
agreed payment against the new terms, they may still file a default (see Principle 4 
below) as soon as a payment is missed, as long you were at least 3 months in arrears 
on the original agreement.
The ICO is clear, all the time that had Miss G stuck to her repayment plan a default wouldnt 
be recorded on her credit file  although adverse information would still be reported about 
such a plan. But as long as the account was sufficiently in arrears, then Satsuma could, if 
the plan wasnt stuck to default the accounts. 
This is why, after the plan with Miss G ended in February 2021 a default notice was 
recorded, the plan ended, and there was a breakdown in communication which resulted in 
no payments being received (either contractual repayments or reduced payments). 
Turning to Principle 4, which is mentioned above  titled If you fall into arrears on your 
account, or you do not keep to the revised terms of an arrangement, a default may be 
recorded to show that the relationship has broken down.
The Principle then goes on to say;
As a general guide, this may occur when you are 3 months in arrears, and normally 
by the time you are 6 months in arrears. 
There are exceptions to this which may result in a default being recorded at a later 
stage, such as secured or long term loans e.g. mortgages, or if the product operates 
in a more flexible way e.g. current accounts, student loans, home credit. 
If an arrangement is agreed (see Principle 3 above), a default would not normally be 
registered unless the terms of that arrangement are broken.
As Ive said, full contractual repayments hadnt been made since December 2019 and no 
payments received at all  according to the statement of account between January and 
November 2020. But, as Miss G was in communication with Satsuma I dont think it wouldve been correct to default the account in July 2020 after the default notice was initially issued. I 
say this because she was in communication with it. However, after the plan completed in 
February 2021 and no new plan was agreed it was entitled, in this case,  to rely on the 
previous default notice and apply the default to Miss Gs credit file. 
I accept, as Ive said above there does appear to have been a breakdown in communication 
in March and April 2021 by this point in time Miss G hadnt made contractual repayments for 
over a year, the account was sufficiently in arrears and Satsuma wasnt able to reach her. A 
default notice had been previously issued explaining the consequences of not agreeing and 
sticking to repayment plans. 
As the adjudicator said, another default notice couldve been issued, but even if it was, I 
dont think recording a default on Miss Gs credit file would be unreasonable considering the 
amount of time that had passed since the account entered into arrears and the fact there 
was apparently no immediate prospect of Miss G returning to normal contractual 
repayments. So, I think, in this case, it was reasonable for Satsuma to have defaulted the 
account when it did. 
When Satsuma applied the default to her credit file and considering the guidance by the ICO 
as well as the notes provided by Satsuma Im satisfied; 
the account was sufficiently in arrears for the account to be defaulted
the default notice had been sent to Miss G 
it was sent to the address Satsuma believed Miss G was resident at and 
the notice contained everything that was required by the regulations. 
So, while I know Miss G will be disappointed by my decision, I do think it was reasonable for 
Satsuma to record the default notice when it did, and in my view it has done this in line with 
the ICO principles. This means, I am unable to ask Satsuma to make a corrections to her 
credit file. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman