DRN-4402912
The complaint
Miss C complains about AXA PPP Healthcare Limiteds handling of her private medical 
insurance claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Under the policy Miss C could see a specialist and have the treatment covered in full, 
so long as AXA recognised the specialist. AXA authorised Miss Cs treatment, and 
provided the names of two specialists she could see that it recognised. That is what I 
would expect AXA to do.
Its not clear what happened next. Miss C says that AXA gave her the name of a 
different specialist (who provided her with the treatment) and AXA says it didnt. 
Either way, I dont think it matters. That specialist was recognised by AXA, so it 
covered Miss Cs treatment. Im satisfied that AXA acted reasonably here and in line 
with the policy terms.
Miss C is unhappy about the quality of the treatment she received from her specialist. 
As our investigator has said, AXA isnt responsible for any treatment provided by a 
specialist. The specialist that treated Miss C will have his own regulatory body and 
professional standards to adhere to.
Miss C questioned what criteria AXA used to recognise the specialist who carried out 
her treatment, and I see that AXA provided her with details of its recognition criteria. I 
think that was reasonable. 
As Miss C needed corrective treatment, AXA explained it would cover this with a 
specialist it recognised. However, Miss C decided to see a non-recognised specialist. 
That decision was of course up to Miss C. Though the policy makes it clear that AXA 
doesnt cover any fees for a non-recognised specialist. 
Ive noted that Miss C says one of the recognised specialists that AXA named wasnt 
an appropriate specialist and couldnt do the treatment. However, AXA gave Miss C 
the name of two specialists, and theres no suggestion that the other one couldnt do 
the treatment. 
AXA therefore wasnt required to pay anything towards the cost of the corrective 
treatment. Nonetheless, AXA chose to contribute £700 towards the treatment as a 
gesture of goodwill. That was up to AXA, but it didnt need to do so. I therefore dont 
require AXA to pay anything more for Miss Cs treatment or appointments. 
 
Miss Cs travel costs for treatment wouldnt have been covered under the policy, 
even if Miss C had seen a recognised specialist for the further treatment.
Overall, I dont find that AXA did anything wrong here and so I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman