DRN-4178172
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the service he received from The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) in
relation to opening a new bank account. He complains that issues with Co-ops identity
verification system meant he missed out on an introductory switching offer of £125.
What happened
On 4 February 2023 Mr B submitted an online application to open a new bank account with
Co-op. There was a refer a friend offer in place which paid £125 to both if the referred friend
of an existing account holder opened a new account and switched to the Co-op within a
certain time period. Following the application, Mr B received a text on 11 February 2023
asking him to provide his proof of ID and address online  but he couldnt easily find where
to do so on the website. So he contacted Co-op via social media and was sent a link to
upload the necessary documents.
Co-op use a third party provider for its digital document verification, and Mr B says the portal
asked him to upload a copy of his passport and then required a selfie so his face could be
matched with the passport image. He says the copy of his passport uploaded fine, but the
webcam picture of his face wasnt accepted. Later that same day Mr B says he used a better
quality webcam to retake the selfie  and no errors were highlighted following that second
attempt. So he assumed everything was fine, and the account switch from his old bank to
Co-op would now happen.
But on 22 February 2023 Mr B received a text from Co-op saying the switch hadnt
completed because his new account wasnt yet open. So that day he contacted the bank via
social media to query when it would be open  and Co-op asked him to phone in so he could
go through security to discuss the application.
Mr B messaged Co-op again on 1 March 2023 to explain he wasnt able to make or receive
calls due to issues with his network provider  and asked whether the team dealing with his
application could email him. Co-op explained email wasnt an option, for security reasons, 
but he could visit a branch or use the text relay service instead. Mr B told Co-op he was
housebound, so visiting a branch wasnt an option. He then logged an enquiry with the
Current Account Switching Service (CASS), and was told the switch hadnt been processed.
So, on 3 March 2023, Mr B contacted Co-op by email to raise a complaint.
Co-op gave us a slightly different version of events, and says Mr B first attempted to upload
the required documentation on 13 February 2023  but the third party provider flagged a
concern with the image. The instructions had asked for a photo of his passport but the
software thought a scanned copy had been uploaded. The bank says it sent Mr B a text that
day advising it didnt have all the information needed, and a few days later Mr B attempted to
upload the same image again. When that was also flagged Co-op says it sent him a further
text, but didnt hear from him again until 3 March 2023.
Co-ops final written response to the complaint said it hadnt done anything wrong. The bank
said Mr Bs application couldnt be completed in time (within a month) as the two images
hed uploaded for proof of identity purposes werent acceptable. As Co-op hadnt been able
to open the account, it said it also hadnt been able to process the request to switch. Mr B
wasnt happy with the response and so referred the complaint to us for review.
An investigator here didnt think the complaint should be upheld because Mr B had
attempted to upload his passport a second time. In the investigators view that meant Mr B
was aware the first image wasnt acceptable, and therefore had likely received Co-ops texts.
The investigator concluded that because the same method and image type was used for the
second attempt, he didnt think Co-op could fairly be held at fault for the application not being
approved in time.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators view, and was adamant he hadnt received any texts
following the two attempted uploads (which had been on the same day). He also said the
process didnt request a picture of his passport, and the copy he uploaded was accepted.
Instead Mr B believed the facial recognition software was at fault.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was passed to me for a final decision. I 
issued a provisional decision saying I wasnt planning to uphold the complaint. Ive copied 
below the part outlining my rationale:
I partly went through the third partys online identification process myself, and found the
instructions were clear: a photo of an ID document (for instance, a passport) was required,
and scanned copies wouldnt be accepted. I also found it still allowed you to proceed to the
selfie stage even if a scanned copy was uploaded  which is perhaps why Mr B thought his
passport image had been accepted. But Ive seen evidence supporting that the third party
provider rejected the two attempted passport image uploads due to them potentially being
scanned copies. Mr B told us he thought the process didnt require a photo of his passport,
but it did  which leads me to believe he might not have realised that image type was
needed. So, I think its likely Mr B didnt upload his proof of ID in the required format  and
Im not persuaded Co-op are at fault there, as I find the instructions were clear.
There are two entries on Co-ops system on different days, where an agent noted the
outcomes of the third party providers assessment of the images. That doesnt necessarily
prove they were uploaded on different days  but I dont think that discrepancy in the
versions of events matters greatly. Co-op hasnt shown me what Mr B would have seen on
screen following his second attempt at completing the process to upload his ID  but Im
willing to accept Mr Bs version that it wasnt made clear it hadnt been accepted.
The system notes also dont mentioned that a text was sent on either day, which Co-op has
said was due to there being limited character space. While that may be true, there isnt any
other corroborating evidence they were sent either. Mr B had issues with phone during this
period, but that doesnt seem to have affected his ability to receive texts  and hes sent us a
screenshot which suggests he only received texts on 11 and 22 February. Mr B contacted
Co-op pretty quickly after receiving each of those, so I dont think its likely he would have
ignored messages telling him more was needed to complete his application. Therefore Im
concluding there was likely a service failing here, and Co-op didnt send him a text after his
uploads to say he needed to get in contact.
So, Ive gone on to think about what would have happened had Co-op sent a text earlier in
the process  which alerted Mr B that he needed to contact the bank about his application.
Having done so, Im not persuaded it would have made a difference here, as I still dont think
he would have been able to complete the application in time.
Mr B wasnt able to speak to Co-op by phone during this period. He also would have known
that going into branch was an option (he lived near one)  but told the bank he was
housebound and unable to do that. Its common practice among banks, for security reasons,to not discuss account details over email either  so I dont think Co-op was at fault for Mr B
not being able to get in contact. That meant Mr B wouldnt have been able to find out what
was needed from him before the application expired. He also wouldnt have been able to
complete the required ID checks another way  for instance, by taking his passport to
branch, or sending in a certified copy.
I appreciate the process wouldve been frustrating for Mr B, and it sounds like his
circumstances at the time made things more difficult. But, bearing in mind Im not holding
Co-op at fault for the issues with the passport images, Im not persuaded the bank are
ultimately responsible for that impact. So, while I do consider there was likely a service
failing, I dont think Co-op texting Mr B (following his second attempt at uploading his ID)
would have produced a different result. Therefore Im not planning to direct the bank to do
anything further in resolution of this complaint.
The refer a friend offer appears to be available again on Co-ops website. So if Mr B is still
interested in opening a new account and switching, then he has the option of speaking to the
bank about reapplying when his circumstances allow.
Mr B responded to say he was disappointed with the outcome but had nothing further to add. 
He asked for the complaint to be concluded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given Mr Bs response to my provisional findings I see no reason to depart from that 
outcome. So, for the reasons given above, Im not directing Co-op to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about The Co-operative Bank Plc..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman