DRN-2667938
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Ageas Insurance Ltd were wrong to decline their claim on their 
home insurance policy. They also complain about the time it took Ageas to process their 
claim.
What happened
On 5 April 2019 Mr and Mrs B noticed water coming through the ceiling and down the wall in 
their lounge. They called out a local builder, who investigated where it was coming from. The 
builder said the leak was from the en-suite shower room upstairs  he gave Mr and Mrs B a 
quote to fix it and repair the damage. 
On 9 April Mr and Mrs B spoke to their insurer, Ageas, about making a claim on their home 
insurance. Mr and Mrs B explained that their builder had taken things apart in the shower 
room to find out what was causing the leak, so they were keen for him to carry on with the 
job. They asked whether an insurance claim would be accepted based on the photos theyd 
taken. Ageas asked Mr and Mrs B to email their photos, together with measurements of the 
affected rooms.
Mr and Mrs B say they chased Ageas several times for an update, but they didnt hear 
anything until 9 May, when Ageas made an offer of £1,227.09 to settle their claim. Mr and 
Mrs B werent happy with this  theyd paid £2,600 to get the problem sorted. They asked 
Ageas to send a loss adjuster to their house to carry out a more accurate valuation.
On 29 May 2019 a loss adjuster visited Mr and Mrs Bs house. After this visit, they again 
chased Ageas for an update. On 27 June they were told that their claim had been declined. 
Mr and Mrs B complained to Ageas about the decision to decline the claim and the length of 
time this had taken. 
Ageas responded to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint on 2 July. Ageas said the loss adjuster 
believed the damage had been caused by failure of the grout and/or sealant in the shower. 
Ageas said that their policy makes it clear that this isnt covered. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think Ageas were wrong to decline Mr 
and Mrs Bs claim, because the policy doesnt cover failure of grout or sealant. Mr and Mrs B 
didnt agree with our investigators view. They said the loss adjusters report doesnt say the 
damage was caused by failure of grout or sealant, and their builder had confirmed it was 
caused by a cracked tile.
My provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision, I said:
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out rules and guidance that insurers such as 
Ageas must follow  these are set out in the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS). This includes a requirement to handle claims promptly and fairly, and not to 
unreasonably reject a claim. Ive considered the way Ageas handled Mr and Mrs Bs claim 
with this in mind. 
I first need to consider whether, in the circumstances of this case, it was fair and reasonable 
for Ageas to decline the claim. It wouldnt be reasonable to expect insurers to cover every 
eventuality  theyre entitled to set out what cover theyre prepared to offer. Ive read the 
wording of Mr and Mrs Bs policy in detail. I can see that the policy provides cover for 
damage caused by tracing and accessing leaks inside the home, up to a maximum of 
£5,000. Damage caused by the escape of water is also covered, with a £350 excess. But the 
policy has exclusions - including that Ageas will not pay for damage caused by the failure, or 
lack of grout and/or sealant.
 
In this case Mr and Mrs B contacted Ageas after their builder had removed the sealant, grout 
and tiles from the shower area  they say he had to do this to find out what was causing the 
leak and how bad it was. Having seen water coming through the ceiling, I can understand 
why Mr and Mrs B first focussed on stopping the leak. When damage occurred, their policy 
required them to take reasonable steps to prevent further loss or damage. Unfortunately, Mr 
and Mrs B dont have photos showing the condition of the tiles, grout and sealant before they 
were removed. I accept that all of this meant that Ageas were deprived of the opportunity to 
assess the condition of the shower installation at the time the damage occurred.
In insurance cases, its for the policy holder to show that, on balance, an insured event 
caused damage or loss. Ive seen the photos Mr and Mrs B provided to Ageas  these 
evidence a water leak from their en-suite shower. If an insurer wishes to rely on an exclusion 
clause, they must establish on balance that the exclusion applies. 
On 9 May, Ageas contacted Mr and Mrs Bs builder to ask what had caused the damage. 
Ive listened carefully to that call recording. The builder talked about water marks running 
down the wall  he said he wasnt sure if they could be seen on the photos. He said thered 
been border tiles on the wall which were cracked - water had been going down the back of 
them and that this had rotted the floor. The builder told Ageas that the grout and sealant 
were perfect. After that phone conversation Ageas made an offer to settle Mr and Mrs Bs 
claim. 
Ageas appointed the loss adjuster because Mr and Mrs B disputed the amount offered. Ive 
seen a copy of his report. At the time of his visit the loss adjuster noted that water was again 
escaping near the base of the shower tray and that there was some movement at the base 
of the cubicle itself. He described this as a secondary issue, due to poor workmanship when 
the shower room was reinstated two months earlier. Im not going to discuss that second 
problem, because its not part of Mr and Mrs Bs original insurance claim. The loss adjusters 
report concluded that it hadnt been possible to confirm the cause of the damage in April 
2019 because the shower room had since been renovated.
Ageas then sent copies of Mr and Mrs Bs photos to the loss adjuster. The loss adjuster 
gave his opinion as to the likely cause of the damage based on those photos. His opinion 
was that the damage was caused by failed grout, sealant or damaged tiling. He went on to 
say that, without further clarification from Mr and Mrs B, he would recommend declining the 
claim as the evidence suggested a failure of sealant or grout. 
I cant see anything in the evidence that shows how the loss adjuster narrowed down the 
most likely cause to failure of grout or sealant. And in this case, Ageas had also spoken to 
the builder whod investigated the cause of the damage. Having looked closely at all the 
evidence, Im satisfied that the builder gives a good indication as to whats most likely to 
have happened in this instance. The builder said there wasnt a problem with the grout or sealant  that they were perfect  the issue was the cracked tiles which had allowed water to 
penetrate over time. This is accepted by Mrs B. For these reasons, Im not persuaded that 
Ageas has shown that the exclusion they relied on to decline the claim was applicable in the 
circumstances. It follows that I dont find that they properly weighed up all the evidence when 
they assessed Mr and Mrs Bs claim. 
Im also not satisfied that Ageas properly considered whether they would cover the damage 
caused by the builder when he investigated the source of the leak. Whilst I accept that its 
not necessary to remove tiles to see whether theyre cracked, I consider it reasonable for 
him to have carried out some further investigation of the shower cubicle, so that he could be 
sure whether cracked tiles were the sole cause of the water damage. 
Ageas have a duty to deal with claims promptly and fairly. They should also keep the 
policyholders updated as to progress. Ive reviewed the contact notes Ageas have provided, 
as well as what Mr and Mrs B have told us. I accept that Ageas were entitled to assess the 
claim, and that was more difficult in this case because the shower cubicle had already been 
partially dismantled by the time they were notified of the problem. But the evidence shows 
that Mr and Mrs B have had to chase for updates as to progress. 
Mr and Mrs B have told us that this was a stressful time  they needed the shower room in 
working order because their son had just come home from hospital. I can appreciate their 
stress and frustration at having to chase up their insurance claim at an already difficult time. 
And I find that Ageas failure to properly weigh up all the evidence before declining Mr and 
Mrs Bs claim has meant that this matter has dragged on for longer than it should have done. 
I think £150 compensation is fair and reasonable in these circumstances.
I said that, subject to any further comments I received, I intended to direct Ageas to reassess 
Mr and Mrs Bs claim and pay them £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. I 
made it clear that this wasnt a direction to pay the claim. 
Ageas accepted my provisional findings. Mr and Mrs B havent made any further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further comments in response to my provisional findings, I 
see no reason to depart from them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, I uphold this complaint. I direct Ageas Insurance Ltd to: 
reassess Mr and Mrs Bs claim in accordance with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy, and 
pay Mr and Mrs B £150 compensation for the trouble and upset theyve been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman