DRN-3983100
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the way in which hes been treated by Vitality Life Limited including 
withdrawing cover for life and serious illness insurance after hed been told that cover had 
been put in place. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. 
The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that Vitality should pay Mr K £300 compensation (in total) for 
distress and inconvenience together with a refund of the first monthly premium paid for the 
policies (together with simple interest at 8%). Ill explain why.
Vitality has a regulatory obligation to treat customers fairly. 
Vitality accepts that it sent Mr K an incorrectly worded letter in October 2022 
confirming that it had accepted his applications for life cover and serious illness 
cover. It explained, based on his medical history, it couldnt offer him serious illness 
cover. And although it could offer him life cover, this would be more expensive than 
initially quoted as there would be a premium loading applied. Having considered the 
evidence provided by Vitality I accept that it shouldnt have offered life cover on the 
terms it did, or serious illness cover. 
Vitality apologised for the incorrect communication and offered £150 compensation. I 
dont think this sum fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience experienced by Mr 
K caused by Vitalitys error. I think £300 is reasonable to compensate him.
Cover was in place for a couple of weeks, and hes had a monthly premium collected 
by Vitality. I accept it wouldve been very disappointing for Mr K to discover that he 
wasnt going to have serious illness cover, and life cover would be more expensive. 
Particularly as hed cancelled similar policies with another insurance provider 
because of the cover hed have in place with Vitality. So, there was a time when he 
thought he didnt have valid cover in place if anything had happened to him. I accept 
this wouldve been very worrying for Mr K.
Thankfully, Mr K has been able to approach his previous insurance provider to 
reinstate cover with no break in protection. However, this wouldve caused him 
unnecessary inconvenience as he wouldnt have needed to do this if hed been given 
the correct information by Vitality in the first place.
Mr K says that the financial benefits of his previous policies arent as high as the 
cover Vitality had confirmed was in place. However, that offer was made in error and, 
based on the information Vitality had at the time, it shouldnt have agreed to offer him 
serious illness cover. And life cover shouldve been more expensive. I can, of course, 
understand his disappointment but Vitality shouldnt have offered him cover on the 
basis that it did.
I know Mr K is also unhappy because it took a long time for cover to be offered by 
Vitality and he was required to obtain lots of medical information and undergo tests. 
Even, if Vitality hadnt confirmed cover in error, to decide whether to offer cover, 
Vitality is entitled to ask for information about Mr Ks medical history and health. 
Depending on the applicants medical history, this isnt an unusual thing for insurers 
to do when someone is applying for life and/or serious illness cover. So, I think this is 
something that wouldve happened even if Vitality hadnt given him the wrong 
information about coverage. 
Mr K did have to pay backdated monthly premiums to reinstate cover with his 
previous insurance provider. However, he wouldve continued paying the monthly 
premium for those policies had Vitality not given him the wrong information. So, I 
dont think it would be reasonable to hold Vitality responsible for this. 
Vitality still hasnt refunded Mr K the first monthly premium hed paid for the serious 
illness and life cover, hed been offered incorrectly by Vitality, around £112. Its 
recently confirmed that it will be doing so. As cover was put in place in error, Mr K 
has cover under his previous policies for the same period and Vitality has seemingly 
cancelled both policies it offered (as they shouldnt have been in place), I think it 
should refund the monthly payment with simple interest from the date on which it was 
collected, as Mr K has been without that money for too long. 
I also think receiving unnecessary reminders for monthly payments, and not 
refunding the first monthly premium earlier, has caused Mr K further distress. 
Putting things right
I direct Vitality to pay Mr K:
- £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience (it can deduct the £150 its 
offered to pay him if this has already been paid).
- the monthly premium paid for serious illness cover and life cover collected which is 
around £112, together with simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum from the date 
on which the amount was collected until the date on which its refunded. 
If Vitality considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any 
interest paid, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. 
It should also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one. That way Mr K can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct Vitality Life Limited to put things right as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman