DRN-3346548
The complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wouldnt agree to extend the term of his interest 
only mortgage. 
What happened
Mr K has a residential interest only mortgage with HSBC. As the mortgage came to the end 
of the term in 2019, Mr K discussed a term extension.
Mr K says that HSBC offered him a term extension when he met with a mortgage manager 
in a branch in late 2019. But then HSBC went back on that offer and refused to extend the 
term of his mortgage after all. It told him that the mortgage wouldnt be affordable for him.
HSBC said that it hadnt offered an extension in 2019. It had discussed the possibility of an 
extension, and agreed to consider an application. When the application was considered in 
full by its underwriters, it was refused. HSBC said that the application was refused because it 
thought that Mr K was able to repay his mortgage and so an extension wasnt necessary. 
And it said that because Mr K was a professional landlord  he relied on income from his 
property portfolio  his application fell outside its lending criteria. It wasnt willing to consider 
applications from professional landlords relying on their rental income to fund a residential 
mortgage, and Mr K didnt have enough other income to show that the mortgage was 
affordable in any other way.
Mr K complains that HSBC misled him and withdrew the offer of a term extension. He says it 
made him take other steps, in respect of some of his other accounts, as part of the 
application  steps he wouldnt have taken had he known that it would be refused. He said 
he told the mortgage manager from the start what his income was, and was told that 
wouldnt be a problem and that his extension had been granted. He doesnt think HSBC 
should be allowed to go back on that now. Mr K said that the loan to value was very small 
and he had plenty of other assets, so there was no risk to HSBC and the application should 
have been granted. He said that because of HSBCs refusal he had re-financed elsewhere, 
at a much higher interest rate.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He noted that HSBC 
had refunded the cost of two valuations Mr K had paid for, and had paid £500 compensation 
for the inconvenience Mr K had been put to while his application was being considered. He 
thought that was a fair way to resolve the complaint, and didnt think HSBC should have 
extended the term, or needed to compensate Mr K for the higher interest rate on his new 
mortgage. So Mr K asked for an ombudsman to review matters.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ks mortgage was in three parts, taken out at different times and with slightly different end 
points between 2020 and 2022. HSBC wrote to him in 2017 and again in 2019 to remind him 
that the terms of his mortgage were coming to an end and that he needed to make provision 
to repay the capital.
In 2019, Mr K began discussions with HSBC. But Im not persuaded that HSBC agreed to 
extend the term of Mr Ks mortgage  Im satisfied that it agreed to consider doing so, not 
that it would do so.
During the next few months, into 2020, Mr K provided HSBC with information about his 
assets and plans. Valuations were carried out on two of his buy to let properties. HSBC 
considered his application, and refused to agree to extend the term.
Ive looked carefully at the evidence Mr K provided, HSBCs considerations at the time, and 
the decision it made.
There were, it seems to me, two key reasons why HSBC didnt want to extend the term of 
Mr Ks mortgage. In the first place, it didnt think a term extension was necessary since Mr K 
could have repaid the mortgage then  it wasnt that he couldnt repay, it was that he 
preferred not to. And, secondly, his application didnt meet HSBCs lending criteria at the 
time, in particular when considering his income.
Ill deal with the second point first, because thats a more technical point. And then Ill deal 
with the broader first point about whether it was reasonable to expect HSBC to extend the 
term when  it believed  it wasnt necessary because Mr K could repay his mortgage.
HSBCs consideration of Mr Ks application against its lending criteria
The regulator of financial services, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out a series of 
rules for lenders that it expects them to abide by. The rules can be found in the FCAs 
Handbook, available online, in the chapter headed MCOB.
One of the rules says that where a lender is considering granting a new mortgage 
application, or considering varying an existing mortgage (for example, as here, extending the 
term), it must do an affordability assessment.
There are various rules about what should be included in an affordability assessment, and 
how income and expenditure is to be assessed. The purpose of the assessment is to 
determine ability to repay the mortgage. 
One of the rules says that a firm should have a policy setting out the factors it takes into 
account  including setting out the types of income which it finds acceptable, and the 
proportion of income of each type it will take into account.
The reason for this is that different lenders have different priorities when taking on (or 
renewing) mortgage business. Some lenders are more adventurous  they are prepared to 
take more risks with their lending business. But others are more cautious. And different 
lenders can legitimately have different views about what their risk appetite is and the sorts of 
business they want to be involved in.
Thats why the FCAs rules dont prescribe exactly how firms should assess income  rather, 
they require firms to consider this, have a policy, and apply the policy.
Relevant to this case, one of HSBCs policies is that its not prepared to accept income from 
professional landlords  that is, people who rely wholly or mainly on income from rental 
property (rather than, for example, income from employment). Thats a reasonable position 
for HSBC to take  it could be argued, for example, that because rental income is dependent on third parties (a landlord will only get income if the property has a tenant and the tenant 
pays the rent), its less certain and more risky than income from employment.
HSBC takes the position that it doesnt consider income from professional landlords. Thats a 
position its entitled to take under the mortgage rules.
And that in turn meant that in this case, HSBC wasnt prepared to take into account Mr Ks 
rental income when considering whether the mortgage was affordable for him.
I take Mr Ks point that he has considerable assets. But the rules require a mortgage to be 
affordable from income  and, without Mr Ks rental income and looking at his pension alone, 
this one wasnt. 
I also take Mr Ks point that he had, in fact, been affording the mortgage without difficulty  
and that track record makes, he thinks, HSBCs decision illogical. However, the rules require 
that when varying the mortgage, affordability is assessed against current income, not assets 
or past history, and that a firm can decide what income it is prepared to accept. And thats 
what HSBC did.
There is another matter though. There are further rules that say that firms dont need to carry 
out an affordability assessment unless theres a change to the terms of the mortgage thats 
material to affordability. And even if there is a material change, a firm can still set aside an 
unfavourable affordability assessment if making the change would otherwise be in the 
borrowers best interests.
Incidentally, Mr K took exception to the investigators use of the phrase best interests, 
saying that the investigator was giving him unwanted financial advice which wasnt what he 
had asked for and not what the Financial Ombudsman Service is set up to do. But that 
wasnt what the investigator was doing  best interests is one of the tests in the FCAs 
mortgage rules, and is therefore something HSBC  and the investigator  needed to take 
into account.
In this case, there was a change to the terms of the mortgage which would be material to 
affordability. Extending the term into, or further into, retirement, is a change which is material 
to affordability. Mr K was in receipt of personal and state pensions at the time of his 
application, and wanted a term extension until the age of 80. 
Ive explained above that, under the rules of mortgage regulation, HSBC carried out an 
affordability assessment  and did so in a fair and reasonable way. Having done that, it 
concluded that on the basis of income it was prepared to accept, the mortgage wasnt 
affordable. And because Mr K wanted to extend the term into retirement, it had to carry out 
that assessment  unless it ought fairly to have found that the term extension was otherwise 
in Mr Ks best interests. And that brings me to the other reason HSBC refused the 
application.
Mr Ks ability to repay the mortgage
As part of his application, Mr K set out a repayment strategy which involved selling two of his 
buy to let properties, as well as cashing in some of his investments.
Hes also explained that he has substantial other assets, including savings and investments, 
and a commercial property worth more than this mortgage balance. And his loan to value on 
his home, over which this mortgage is secured, is less than 15% with over £3.5million in 
equity. Mr K said that this meant that he would have no problem repaying the mortgage at the end 
of any extended term. Even if his planned strategy  the buy to lets and investments  failed, 
he had other assets. Or he could sell or take out an equity release mortgage on his home.
It's therefore clear that there was little prospect of Mr K being unable to repay his mortgage 
at the end of any extended term.
But the flip side of that is that its also clear that he was able to repay the mortgage at the 
end of the original term  without the need for a term extension. He could have used some of 
his assets to repay it; he could have sold his residence or taken an equity release mortgage. 
This is not a situation where Mr K got to the end of the term and found himself unable to pay. 
Its a situation where Mr K could have repaid  but wasnt yet ready to do so.
As HSBCs notes of the initial meeting in 2019 record, Mr Ks reasons for wanting the 
extension were to give [him] the ability to decide when to pay back when he feels it is the 
right time to liquidate. 
Mr K had a very low interest rate with HSBC, and it suited him to continue to borrow at that 
rate, while allowing his other assets and investments to grow  rather than using them to 
repay the mortgage. And I understand why he wanted to do that.
But I also have to bear in mind that when he took this mortgage out, he agreed that he would 
repay it at the end of the term. And, all other things being equal, its not unreasonable for 
HSBC to expect Mr K to keep to that agreement. 
I referred above to Mr Ks best interests being a factor that HSBC could have taken into 
account in deciding to set aside the results of its affordability assessment. Mr K feels that its 
in his best interests to continue with this mortgage when he doesnt need to repay it and he 
believes he can continue to afford the repayments indefinitely.
But its also the case that the value of his assets can go down as well as up, and that his own 
situation can change over time and as he gets older. Theres also an argument that where 
he can repay such substantial borrowing, its in his best interests to do so.
In any case, the rule Ive referred to doesnt say that HSBC has to allow an application even 
where its in a borrowers best interests to set aside an affordability assessment. Applications 
can still be refused on other grounds.
Conclusion
Ive set out the various factors HSBC needed to take into account above. It carried out an 
affordability assessment  and, based on the rules of mortgage regulation, did so on a fair 
and reasonable basis. The rules say that it doesnt need to use a failed affordability 
assessment to refuse an application if granting it would otherwise be in a borrowers best 
interests.
However, for the reasons Ive given above, I think whether or not a term extension to the age 
of 80 was in Mr Ks best interests is less clear-cut than Mr K says  and long term best 
interests is not necessarily the same as what a borrower wants at a particular moment in 
time.
In any case, even if HSBC was satisfied that the best interests test was met, allowing it to 
set aside the need for an affordability assessment, that doesnt mean that it had to grant the 
application. And it doesnt mean that it couldnt fairly refuse it on other grounds.Mr K borrowed money from HSBC. He agreed he would pay it back at the end of the term. 
But when the term came to an end, he decided he would rather keep the borrowing as that 
was, financially speaking, the better thing for him to do. But HSBC wanted Mr K to keep to 
the original agreement  and pay back what he had borrowed. He could clearly afford to do 
so. And in all the circumstances, I dont think that was an unreasonable position for HSBC to 
have taken. I dont therefore uphold the complaint that it should have agreed to extend 
Mr Ks term.
However, it did take HSBC some months to come to a decision. And theres some force in 
Mr Ks point that he was upfront about his income  and should have been told it wouldnt 
have been acceptable from the start. While, as Ive said above, that wasnt the only factor 
here it does seem that HSBC could have done more to manage Mr Ks expectations.
HSBC acknowledges that. Its paid Mr K £500 compensation for his distress and 
inconvenience. Ive considered this, noting the sorts of awards the Financial Ombudsman 
Service makes in similar cases (theres more information about this on our website). Im 
satisfied thats fair compensation.
HSBC has also refunded the cost of two valuations of his buy to let properties that wouldnt 
have been needed had it reached a decision sooner. And again, I think thats fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im satisfied that HSBC UK Bank Plc has made a fair and 
reasonable offer to settle Mr Ks complaint. I dont require it to take any further action.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman