DRN-2519881
The complaint
Mrs G complains that lending MBNA Limited made to her in 2016 was irresponsible. Mrs Gs 
complaint has been brought to us on her behalf by professional representatives.
What happened
Mrs G took out a credit card with MBNA on 8 September 2016. She told MBNA that she was
having financial difficulties in 2018, and then defaulted on this debt. Mrs Gs representative
told us she currently owes £1,280, but she doesnt think she should have to pay this back,
because MBNA had acted unfairly. Mrs Gs representative said Mrs G is in financial
difficulties now, and was when she took out this card. Her representative doesnt think
MBNA shouldve lent to Mrs G.
Mrs Gs representative said that MBNA hadnt properly checked her debt position before she
took out the card. And she said it overcharged her with extra interest, costs, fees and
charges. Mrs Gs representative said that the terms of Mrs Gs agreement with MBNA were
unfair, and those unfair terms had been used to disadvantage Mrs G, by racking up extra
costs and charges, and increasing the interest rate.
MBNA disagreed. It said that it had checked Mrs Gs credit file at the time of her application,
and there were no concerns. She was given a credit limit of £1,500, and although she
requested an increase in 2017, she wasnt granted that.
MBNA said it applied interest charges and default sums in line with the terms of the account
until MBNA found out about Mrs Gs financial difficulty in July 2018. It then waived all
charges, and no further charges were applied after then.
When Mrs G told it about her financial difficulties, MBNA agreed to accept a token amount
from her. It told her then that this amount wouldnt prevent her account from defaulting.
MBNA said that Mrs G owed it £1,273.95. It said that this debt had been passed to a third-
party collector.
MBNA said that its terms were transparent, and its charges were in line with the guidance
provided by the Office of Fair Trading. MBNA said it had only ever charged one late fee, on 5
June 2017, which was before it knew about Mrs Gs financial difficulties.
MBNA said it wouldnt agree that having the scope to change interest rates was unfair, but
actually there had been no changes in the rates applicable to Mrs Gs account.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that although Mrs G
had a high level of debt before she took out the card (which presumably included her
mortgage) there were no visible defaults before MBNA lent her money. Mrs G had difficulties
managing her finances in 2018, and the account went into arrears and was then defaulted.
Our investigator noted that shed drawn her conclusion on the basis of the credit report we
were supplied. That was not a full report, it didnt tell us how Mrs G was maintaining other
debts or how much it was costing her each month to maintain them.
Our investigator said that when Mrs G started to have financial difficulties, MBNA responded
positively and sympathetically. Interest charges were stopped, and MBNA says it isnt
actively collecting the outstanding balance.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs G had been treated unfairly, and she couldnt see that the
interest rate on Mrs Gs account had been changed.
Mrs Gs representative didnt agree. She said that she was sending further evidence. She
wanted to stress that Mrs G was in a debt management plan between 2007 and 2017. Mrs
Gs representative thought this was evidence that Mrs G wasnt managing her debts, and
hadnt been for some time. Mrs Gs representative said that Mrs G was paying off her
lending using more lending. And in late 2017, after MBNA made this lending, Mrs G had to
take out a second-charge loan on her home with a sub-prime lender to consolidate some of
her and her husbands debts, but even then there was unsecured debt remaining.
Mrs Gs representative said that her spiralling unsecured credit has led to increased risk to
Mrs G and her husband of losing their home, as lenders kept irresponsibly lending at high
interest rates during her periods of financial difficulty, including spells of illness and
unemployment. Mrs Gs representative hasnt suggested that Mrs G was unwell or out of
work when MBNA lent her money.
Mrs Gs representative said the evidence shows Mrs G was in prolonged financial difficulty in
2016 when she opened the MBNA account. Mrs Gs representative thought that if MBNA
had checked, it wouldve seen that she was in a debt management plan, and if it had
checked the cost of her other credit and looked for defaults, it would not have lent to her. So
Mrs Gs representative said this was evidently irresponsible lending, which has worsened
Mrs Gs financial situation by extending her debt spiral.
Mrs Gs representative said that Mrs G wanted an ombudsman to consider her complaint, so
this case came to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. But 
Im conscious that both our investigator and I have asked for Mrs Gs full credit file, 
which I regard as key evidence in this case. That has not been supplied. My current 
decision is reached in the absence of that evidence. So this decision will be 
provisional, and Ill give both sides a chance to offer further evidence before I make a 
final decision.
Mrs G has been represented in this complaint by a law firm. It may be that the 
complaint which was registered on her behalf was at least in part a standard form 
letter, because some of the points of complaint raised dont appear to apply in Mrs 
Gs case. Where Mrs Gs representative has complained about something that hasnt 
actually affected Mrs G, Im not able to consider that as part of her complaint. Our 
service can only look at what has actually happened in a case.
Mrs Gs representative said that some terms of the credit agreement that she signed 
with MBNA were unfair. Ill deal with those points in turn.Her representative said that the costs, fees and charges that MBNA was permitted to 
apply under the agreement were unfair. I can find only one charge, of £12 for late 
payment in June 2017. Mrs G hadnt missed a payment before this, and I dont think 
that there were signs of financial difficulty on Mrs Gs account at that time. I dont 
think this charge was unfair.
Mrs Gs representative said that MBNA shouldnt be allowed to vary Mrs Gs interest 
rate. I have checked Mrs Gs statements, and the interest rates applied were 
consistent, up until MBNA stopped charging any interest because Mrs G had told it 
about her financial difficulties. This was the only interest rate variation on Mrs Gs 
account. I dont think that was unfair.
Mrs Gs representative said that MBNAs scope to vary its agreement with Mrs G was 
too wide. But the only example I can see of MBNA varying its agreement with Mrs G 
was when it reduced her payments and stopped all interest and charges. I dont think 
thats unfair.
Mrs Gs representative said it was unfair for MBNA to lend to her in 2016, given her 
financial position at the time. Her representative considers that this lending was 
irresponsible.
Our investigator asked for Mrs Gs full credit file, and I have also repeatedly asked for 
this. It hasnt been supplied. So, like our investigator, Im not able to see what level 
Mrs Gs debts were at, when she took out this MBNA card, and if that matches the 
information MBNA has shared with us. And I cant see if credit reference agencies 
had been informed of any difficulties she was having in meeting those debts.
Mrs Gs representative thought MBNA would be able to tell us what she owed at the 
time. But, as I have said in correspondence, what MBNA holds now isnt Mrs Gs 
credit file. It is merely the results of the credit check that MBNA did on Mrs G. And 
MBNA has already told us that it didnt think there was anything wrong with its 
lending, on the basis of the credit check it did at the time.
Mrs G also says that it was irresponsible for MBNA to lend to her, and it shouldve 
realised the extent of her debt. The debt management plan that Mrs Gs  
representative has sent us does show a considerable amount of debt. Her sole and 
joint unsecured debt is shown as around £35,000. Its not clear from the evidence I 
have what the date of those debts is.
MBNA said that it could see, when Mrs G applied for her credit card, that she owed
£127,778 on her mortgage, £18,953 in loans and £6,235 on credit cards. Whilst this 
is also a substantial pre-existing amount of unsecured debt, its not the same as the 
debt management plan amount. And the limited credit file I do have doesnt show any 
defaults which predate her MBNA application.
So its not clear whether Mrs G was managing her existing debts at the time when 
she applied to MBNA. And, without information to show that Mrs G was having 
difficulty managing her debts and her credit file reflected this, or to show that MBNA 
shouldve been aware of additional debt which appears in Mrs Gs payment plan, Im 
not able to say that it was clearly irresponsible of MBNA to lend Mrs G this money.
There is some further evidence to show Mrs Gs financial situation at the time, as we 
are able to see how Mrs G used the card. If someone is in very severe financial 
difficulties, as Mrs Gs representative has suggested she was, then its common to 
see that person using all of their available credit in a very short period of time. But thats not how Mrs G used this card. She only used a little of the available credit in 
the first few months, and some months she didnt use the card at all.
On the evidence thats available to me at the moment, I cant say that MBNA made a
mistake when it lent Mrs G money in 2016. 
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Neither side replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman