DRN-3517499
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about how Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd has offered to settle 
their claim on their home insurance.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K had home insurance with Accredited. In June 2021 they made a claim under 
the accidental damage cover after they dropped a pot on a porcelain tiled floor in their 
kitchen. This meant tiles across a number of rooms needed to be replaced. 
Accredited accepted the claim and put together a scope of works which costed the work at 
around £40,000. However Mr and Mrs K were unhappy with its contractors so requested a 
cash settlement instead. Accredited asked them to obtain two quotes for the work for it to 
consider. 
Once the quotes were provided Accredited said they were too high as they were around 
£7,000 more than its costing. It said it would agree to a cash settlement but only at the 
amount it would cost it to do the work. It also said it would only pay once Mr and Mrs K 
provided invoices on completion of the work. 
Mr and Mrs K were unhappy with this. They said it would be easier for them to have the 
money upfront so they could project manage the work as needed. They made a complaint.
Accredited didnt uphold their complaint. It said it would agree to make interim payments as 
parts of the work were completed, but only on receipt of invoices to show that the work had 
been carried out.
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs K brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. He 
said as Accredited had agreed to a cash settlement at a set amount, it was reasonable that it 
made payment based on the necessary repairs, and didnt think it was fair that it required an 
invoice before making payment. 
Mr and Mrs K accepted our investigators outcome. However Accredited didnt agree and 
asked for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Accredited has accepted liability for the claim, and has offered to carry out the work using its 
own contractors or pay a cash settlement based on how much this would cost it. While this is 
less than the quotes provided by Mr and Mrs K, we wouldnt say this was unreasonable as 
theyve requested the cash settlement when it would have been possible for Accredited to 
carry out the work. So it wouldnt be fair to ask Accredited to pay more than this would have 
cost it.
However, its said it will only make payment on receipt of an invoice to show the work has 
been completed. And I agree with our investigator that this is unreasonable. Ill explain why. 
Accredited has agreed the claim is covered under the policy and confirmed the amount it will 
provide cover for. Its also agreed to pay this as a cash settlement. When a cash settlement 
is offered, this concludes the insurers responsibility for the claim as the amount paid is full 
and final, so the insurer would have no ongoing involvement in the claim. And as Accredited 
has agreed the limit of its liability, I dont see any reason why this cant be paid upfront. As it 
represents its liability under the policy and no more than that.
Further, as the amount has already been agreed, and this is less than Mr and Mrs K will be 
able to get the work done for, the invoices arent required to confirm the cost of the work. So 
I cant see that they will provide any additional information that would change the insurers 
liability under the policy. But instead it would mean Mr and Mrs K would be out of pocket 
while they waited to be refunded. 
Accredited has said that invoices will provide it with proof that the work has been carried out, 
as otherwise it has nothing to confirm that this is what the money has been spent on. 
However this isnt enough to persuade me that its a fair approach. Its accepted the damage 
is covered under the policy and the amount it will cost to put right, so it is required to settle 
its liability. 
For these reasons, I agree with our investigator that Accredited should pay Mr and Mrs K the 
agreed cash settlement of £40,954.44 without the requirement for them to provide invoices 
for the work.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. I require Accredited 
Insurance (Europe) Ltd to pay them a cash settlement of £40,954.44 to settle the claim, 
without requiring them to provide an invoice.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman