DRN-1921527
The complaint
Mr M complains that Black Horse Finance Limited refused to let him reject a faulty car.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr M acquired a new car funded by a hire purchase agreement. It cost 
£38,515. In early Jul he noticed a loud noise like a washing machine when driving the car. 
He took it back to the dealer and a problem with the balance shaft was identified. He 
complained to Black Horse and said he had been mis-sold the car as he had not been told 
about this known problem. 
Black Horse didnt accept there had been a mis-sale but recognised the inconvenience Mr M 
had suffered. It said there were no recalls for the car and it was unreasonable to expect the 
salesperson to go through all possible issues. The car was taken in to be repaired in 
November and I gather this has been successful. Black Horse offered Mr M £350 in 
compensation. Mr M remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
It was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. Mr M 
submitted a copy of a service bulletin issued to USA dealers which stated:
An issue has been identified on a limited number of Jaguar vehicles within the listed 
Affected Vehicle Range which may exhibit an audible engine whine noise within the cabin. 
Investigations have highlighted that the noise is related to the engine balance shaft which 
requires remedial action with the least amount of delay. He also sent in an extract from 
users forum.
Our investigator said he was satisfied there was fault with the car at the point of sale and he 
then considered what would be the most suitable remedy. He noted the repair had been 
successful and in the circumstances he thought that rejection wasnt appropriate. However, 
he agreed that some compensation was due and he thought £350 was fair. He said that Mr 
M had been able to use the car although he appreciated the experience had been less than 
perfect.
On the matter of the alleged mis-sale he noted the USA recall bulletin was for models made 
dated between 2017 and 2018. Mr Ms car was first registered in April 2019. He also referred 
to the VIN numbers on the document that were said to be affected by this service recall and 
said he was unable to say that these included Mr Ms car. He concluded that it was unlikely 
that anyone would have known about the issue Mr M later encountered.
Mr M didnt agree and said his engine would have been built before the car was registered 
and Jaguar knew about the problem. He said when he first called the dealer after the 
problem appeared when he had driven the car for 5,000 miles was that it may be the 
balance shafts. He said that this showed the dealer was aware of the possible fault. He also 
gave more details of the recall notice in the USA.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Black Horse is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I have every sympathy with Mr M and I can understand his disappointment with his new car, 
but I dont consider I can uphold his complaint. I will explain why.
It is not disputed that the car had a fault and it is reasonable to presume that was present at 
the point of sale. It only came to light after several months and consumer law allows the 
merchant one attempt to remedy the fault. This it has done and I consider that to be fair and 
reasonable. Black Horse has recognised the trouble and upset experience by Mr M and I 
consider the payment it offered is fair and reasonable.
On the associated, but separate matter of misrepresentation I dont consider I have sufficient 
evidence to uphold this element of the complaint. It seems there has been a problem with 
some of the engines of the type in Mr Ms car. I note the service bulletin Mr M supplied 
states it affected a limited number of cars. I also note that there was no recall issued in the 
UK. I have seen nothing to demonstrate that Mr Ms car was one of those affected.
I cannot say when his engine was manufactured, but it given the motor industrys just in time 
methodology I suspect it wont have been made much before the car was built.  Given the 
uncertainty about the problem and whether it might affect Mr Ms car I dont think the dealer 
was under an obligation to tell Mr M about it. That always assume that the dealer was aware 
of the issue at the time. 
I also have to consider whether this would have impacted Mr Ms decision to proceed with 
the purchase. Given the fix is relatively straightforward and the problem has not affected the 
use of the car and the fact it doesnt affect all engines I am not persuaded it would have 
caused Mr M to abandon the purchase. All the dealer could have said, if he was aware of it 
and it was appropriate to so, would have been some engines may have a minor problem 
which will be remedied at no cost to you.I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, but I do not consider I can uphold 
his complaint.
My final decision
Black Horse Finance Limited has already made an offer to pay £350 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.  So, my decision is that Black Horse 
Finance Limited should pay £350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman