DRN-4218344
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs H complain about the service Connect IFA Ltd trading as Connect Mortgages 
provided when arranging mortgages for them.
What happened
In around February 2022 Mr A and Mrs H asked Connect IFA Ltd trading as Connect 
Mortgages (Connect) to help them arrange two mortgages. Connect obtained two offers. The 
first, from Lender 1, was for a let to buy arrangement under which Mr A and Mrs H planned 
to release some equity to use as a deposit on a new property and convert the existing 
mortgage to a buy to let (BTL). The second, from Lender 2, was for a new residential 
mortgage for the new property they planned to buy.
Shortly before contracts were due to be exchanged, Mr A and Mrs Hs solicitors told them 
the mortgage offer from Lender 2 was subject to a special condition that required them to 
pay off the borrowing on their existing property. If they wanted to go ahead with the BTL, 
Lender 2s lending criteria would only be met in Mr A and Mrs Hs circumstances if the BTL 
was arranged through Lender 2s associated company. The seller of the new property pulled 
out due to the time a new BTL application would take. And Mr A and Mrs Hs plans to move 
fell through. They complained to Connect.
Connect didnt accept responsibility for what had gone wrong or uphold the complaint. They 
said, in summary, Lender 2s criteria regarding let properties hadnt been clear; Lender 2s 
application process didnt ask questions that would have highlighted the issue; the solicitor 
hadnt picked up the special condition until the last minute; and the seller pulling out was 
outside their control. But, as a gesture of goodwill, Connect offered to refund Mr A and Mrs H 
their fees for one of the mortgage applications.
Mr A and Mrs H didnt accept Connects response and brought their complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. They felt Connect should refund all the fees theyd paid to 
them; pay the search fees theyd paid their solicitors; and meet the additional costs of 
borrowing they would incur when they did buy a property due to increases in interest rates.
Our investigator made some enquiries of Lender 2. In light of what it said, he thought 
Connect had made mistakes. He said, broadly, theyd failed to take on board Lender 2s 
criteria and processes that were available on its intermediary website and theyd completed 
the mortgage application incorrectly. Connect hadnt provided the service hed reasonably 
expect from a broker. And to put things right Connect should refund their fees totalling £998, 
reimburse the search fees Mr A and Mrs Hs solicitors had charged them of £614 subject to 
proof of payment, and pay compensation of £500 for distress and inconvenience. He didnt 
think Connect should pay anything towards Mr A and Mrs Hs potentially higher costs of 
borrowing since they hadnt incurred a loss and there was no guarantee they would have 
obtained another offer in line with their plans.
Connect agreed our investigators outcome. But Mr A and Mrs H didnt agree. They felt the 
compensation was too low given the distress theyd suffered. And they felt Connect should 
also compensate them for the additional costs of borrowing theyd incur when they took out a 
new mortgage.
Since the complaint hasnt been resolved, it was referred to me to decide. I recently issued a 
provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficult position Mr A and Mrs H are in with regard to moving 
house. And I appreciate their strength of feeling about their complaint. But, whilst I 
acknowledge theyll be disappointed, so far Ive come to the same outcome as our 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. But since the redress Im proposing is different, 
as Im asking Connect to pay interest, Im issuing a provisional decision. That gives the 
parties the chance to make any further comments theyd like me to take into account in 
reaching my final decision.
Connect have now accepted they got things wrong. And theyve agreed to reimburse Mr A 
and Mrs H their own fees, to pay the solicitors search fees, subject to proof of payment, and 
to pay them compensation of £500. So, what I need to decide is whether its fair and 
reasonable to ask Connect to pay towards Mr A and Mrs Hs additional costs of borrowing 
and/or to increase the level of compensation our investigator recommended.
Ive noted Mr A and Mrs Hs calculations about how much more a new mortgage could 
potentially cost them. They havent incurred a loss yet although I appreciate they are hoping 
to move soon. Connects actions undoubtedly caused difficulties with the transactions they 
were hoping to achieve. But I cant be certain they would have gone through even if Connect 
had completed the mortgage applications correctly. Its not clear an application to Lender 2s 
associated company would have succeeded or if any terms it offered would have been 
suitable for or acceptable to Mr A and Mrs H. And its possible the transactions may have 
failed even if Connect had got things right - such as the seller pulling out for other reasons or 
the chain collapsing. So, its too speculative to say the additional costs Mr A and Mrs H now 
face flow from Connects mistakes. And it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to ask them to pay 
them.
But its right that Connect compensate Mr A and Mrs H for the distress and inconvenience 
they caused. Mr A and Mrs H have described the significant distress theyve suffered. They 
say losing their ideal property and continuing to live in their existing property has impacted 
their mental health and affected their family. And they say the stressful situation is continuing 
today.
It wouldnt be fair to put all the blame for that on Connect since Mr A and Mrs H could 
potentially have tried to move again sooner. But Connect were aware, when investigating the 
complaint, that Lender 2s relevant criteria and processes were available on-line and that 
they didnt check the mortgage offer from Lender 2 when it came through  even if they felt 
the information on both was unclear  and directed the blame to other parties. I think 
Connect should have acknowledged their mistakes sooner.
Bearing in mind the impact on Mr A and Mrs H of the mistakes Connect made and the 
timescales involved, I think £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.To put things right Connect should pay back the fees Mr A and Mrs H paid them, reimburse 
the search fees they paid to their solicitors, subject to providing Connect with proof of 
payment, and pay them compensation for distress and inconvenience of £500 - plus interest 
on the basis Ill set out below.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold Mr A and Mrs Hs complaint and direct Connect IFA Ltd trading as 
Connect Mortgages to pay Mr A and Mrs H the following sums within 14 days of Mr A and 
Mrs H accepting this decision, if they choose to do so:
1. The fees Mr A and Mrs H paid Connect IFA Ltd trading as Connect Mortgages for the 
services they provided in arranging the mortgages with Lender 1 and Lender 2;
2. The search fees Mr A and Mrs H paid their solicitors, subject to them providing 
Connect with proof of payment;
3. Simple interest on the sums payable under paragraphs 1 and 2 at the rate of 8% a 
year from the date Mr A and Mrs H paid the sums in question until Connect IFA Ltd 
trading as Connect Mortgages reimburse them; and
4. Compensation for distress and inconvenience of £500.
If Connect IFA Ltd trading as Connect Mortgages consider that theyre required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the interest, they should tell Mr A and Mrs H 
how much theyve taken off. They should also give Mr A and Mrs H a tax deduction 
certificate, if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Developments
Connect had no comments to make on my provisional decision.
Mr A and Mrs H said they were unhappy with the level of compensation Id proposed. They 
said too they tried to move sooner, but their original plans had become unaffordable. They 
explained they looked at selling their existing property and taking a residential mortgage. But 
they found it difficult to find a new property that was suitable. And they felt their original plans 
would have gone through but for Connects mistakes.
Despite their comments, Mr A and Mrs H said they accepted my provisional decision.
Bearing the above in mind, Ill now set out my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr A and Mrs Hs comments. I explained in my provisional decision why I couldnt be 
sure their transaction would have gone through even if Connect hadnt made mistakes. Mr A 
and Mrs H havent raised any substantive new points that would persuade me to change my 
mind about that, although I do understand their strength of feeling and disappointment. But 
theyve decided to accept the decision anyway.Given the parties responses to my provisional decision, I see no reason to change my 
outcome. For the reasons and on the basis I set out in my provisional decision, I uphold the 
complaint. 
Putting things right
Connect IFA Ltd trading as Connect Mortgages should pay Mr A and Mrs H the sums I set 
out below. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Connect IFA Ltd trading as Connect Mortgages to pay    
Mr A and Mrs H the following sums within 14 days of Mr A and Mrs H accepting this 
decision, if they choose to do so:
1. The fees Mr A and Mrs H paid Connect IFA Ltd trading as Connect Mortgages for 
the services they provided in arranging the mortgages with Lender 1 and    
Lender 2;
2. The search fees Mr A and Mrs H paid their solicitors, subject to them providing 
Connect with proof of payment;
3. Simple interest on the sums payable under paragraphs 1 and 2 at the rate of 8% 
a year from the date Mr A and Mrs H paid the sums in question until Connect IFA 
Ltd trading as Connect Mortgages reimburse them; and
4. Compensation for distress and inconvenience of £500.
If Connect IFA Ltd trading as Connect Mortgages consider that theyre required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the interest, they should tell Mr A and Mrs H 
how much theyve taken off. They should also give Mr A and Mrs H a tax deduction 
certificate, if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman