DRN-3489701
The complaint
Mr H complains that FIL Investment Advisors (UK) Limited, (Fidelity) failed to promptly 
arrange the transfer of all the funds he held in his investment account and ISA account to his 
new investment platform. In particular, he says two funds, one held in his ISA and one in his 
investment account took too long to transfer. 
In order to put matters right Mr H would like Fidelity to pay him compensation for the worry 
and loss of investment opportunity he suffered as a result of the delay in transferring these 
funds.
What happened
On 12 October 2021, Fidelity received a request to transfer the assets Mr H held in his 
investment account to a new investment platform. On 20 October 2021, it then received a 
transfer request to transfer the assets held in Mr Hs ISA to his new investment platform.
Most of the funds were transferred promptly. However, two of the funds were not promptly 
transferred to Mr Hs new investment platform. It appears that the fund being transferred to 
Mr Hs ISA was not available in his ISA account with his new investment platform until late 
December 2021. 
Mr H complained to Fidelity about the delay in transferring these funds to his new investment 
platform. He said the matter had caused him a lot of worry and he had lost out financially as 
he hadnt been able to trade these funds due to the delay in transferring them.
Fidelity did not uphold Mr Hs complaint. It explained that transfers between providers are 
usually carried out using an electronic system. It said it had used this system to transfer 
Mr Hs holdings to his new investment platform. 
In particular, it noted that in order for the transfer of funds to be completed, stock transfer 
forms are sent to the relevant fund manager and the fund manager has to update its records 
to reflect the new platform that the investment is held on.
It said it received an initial information request from Mr Hs new investment platform provider 
on 5 October 2021, regarding his investment account and it responded with the required 
information that day. It then received a transfer request on 12 October and the funds were 
transferred from Mr Hs investment account that day.
On 18 October 2021, it then received an information request for Mr Hs ISA, its records 
showed that it responded to the new investment platform that day. A transfer request was 
received on 20 October, and Mr Hs funds were transferred out that day.
Fidelity explained that if funds that had been transferred were not visible in Mr Hs account 
with his new investment platform, his new provider would need to contact the fund manager 
to ensure the stock transfer request had been processed.
Mr H was not satisfied with Fidelitys response and referred the matter to this service. 
Having considered Mr Hs complaint our investigator said she didnt think Fidelity had acted 
incorrectly or done anything wrong. 
She said that, based on the information she had seen, she was satisfied that Fidelity had 
responded promptly to the information requests and transfer requests it had received in 
connection with Mr Hs transfer. She also noted that Fidelity had explained to Mr H that if a 
fund was not visible in his account, his new platform provider would need to chase the fund 
manager responsible, to ensure that it had updated its records to reflect that Mr Hs fund 
holding was held with his new platform provider.
Mr H did not accept our investigators view. He said he felt her view was unreasonable to 
say the least. He reiterated that this matter had caused him a lot of worry and stress and 
that he felt he had lost out financially due to the delay in transferring his funds. 
He also said he felt Fidelity had not been open and above board and had delayed the 
transfer. Mr H queried whether this service had seen the letter he had received from Fidelity 
dated 9 December 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mr Hs position and I appreciate that he found the delay in the transfer of 
two of his funds worrying. However, in order to uphold this complaint against Fidelity I would 
need to be satisfied that Fidelity had acted incorrectly or had delayed the transfers. 
Having carefully considered this matter, I cant safely find that Fidelity has acted incorrectly 
or treated Mr H unfairly. Ill explain why.
The records I have seen, show that Fidelity responded very promptly to both the information 
and transfer requests it received from Mr Hs new investment platform provider. In particular 
I note that it responded to both the information and transfer requests for his investment 
account and his ISA account on the same day it received the request from Mr Hs new 
investment platform provider. I cant reasonably say that it should have responded any faster 
than it did.
I think there may be a genuine misunderstanding on Mr Hs part about how the transfer of 
funds actually happens. When a customer wants to transfer a fund holding from one 
investment platform to another, without selling the holding (known as an in specie transfer), 
a stock transfer form is sent to the fund manager for the fund and the fund manager needs to 
update its records to reflect the change of investment platform (and nominee account). Once 
the fund manager has updated its records the holding will then be reflected in the customers 
account with the new investment platform. 
It appears that, for whatever reason, the fund manager for the funds that were delayed did 
not promptly update its records to reflect that Mr H had changed to a new investment 
platform and therefore there was a new nominee account. As Fidelity explained, when this 
happens the onus is on the new investment platform to chase up the fund manager and ask 
it to update its records to reflect the change of nominee account.
Fidelity explained this process to Mr H in its response to his complaint. It also emailed Mr Hs 
new investment platform provider on 13 December 2021, on Mr Hs behalf, about the funds 
that were not yet available in Mr Hs account with his new provider. I cant reasonably say 
that Fidelity should have done more than it did to assist Mr H in this matter.From Mr Hs submissions to this service it appears he is concerned that Fidelity deliberately 
delayed the transfer of these funds. However, based on the information I have seen there is 
nothing to suggest that Fidelity caused any delay to Mr Hs fund transfers. From the 
information I have seen I am satisfied that it responded promptly to the transfer requests it 
received and, when it was made aware that there was a problem with a fund Mr H held in his 
investment account and ISA account it contacted his new investment platform on Mr Hs 
behalf.
I note Mr H has said he feels he lost out financially as he wasnt able to trade while his 
investments were being transferred. However, it may have been possible for Mr H to trade 
while the transfer was being processed, but it is likely this would have delayed the transfer 
as the original fund value that Fidelity provided to Mr Hs new platform provider would no 
longer have been correct.
But as I havent seen anything to show or suggest that Fidelity was responsible for the delay 
in the transfer of his funds, I cant reasonably require it to compensate Mr H for any loss of 
investment opportunity he feels he has suffered.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman