DRN-3263424
The complaint
Mr P complains that the car he acquired through Black Horse Limited (BHL) wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. He wants BHL to repair the car and reimburse him the money hes 
already spent on repairs.
What happened
Mr P entered a hire purchase agreement in June 2019 to acquire a used car. At the time of 
acquisition, the car was around 18 months old and had been driven around 1,000 miles. 
Mr P says issues with the timing chain and turbo mean that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality and because of this, BHL should pay to reimburse him for the repairs hes already 
paid for. Mr P told us:
In late May 2021, he booked it in with a local garage for its service;
having examined the car, the garage wouldnt carry out the service  it told him that 
the timing chain was about to fail, and he should not drive the car. If he drove it, and 
the timing chain failed, it could lead to a total engine failure;
he took the car to another garage and it replaced the timing chain at a cost of just 
over £450. And he says he lost six days work whilst the car was being repaired;
three months later, whilst driving home, the car stopped completely. An examination 
by the garage confirmed that the turbo had blown, and this was replaced a week later 
at a cost of £900;
after the replacement turbo had been fitted, the car didnt feel safe to drive  the car 
would accelerate when he hadnt actually depressed the accelerator;
following a further investigation, he was advised that the car engine might need 
replacing at a cost to him of around £1,500;
he complained to BHL, but it told him that the issues he was experiencing were to be 
expected in a car of this age and mileage.
BHL rejected this complaint. It says it spoke with both the supplying dealership and the 
garage that carried out repairs to Mr Ps car. It said when the timing chain was replaced in 
July 2021, the cars total mileage was more than 50,000, an increase of more than 49,000 
miles in the two years since Mr P acquired the car. And it says it isnt unexpected for a timing 
chain to have failed around the 50,000-mile mark. BHL says that the turbo was replaced in 
November 2021, just four months later, during which time Mr P had driven the car a further 
7,000 miles. And the supplying dealership said that it wasnt unexpected for a turbo to fail at 
57,000 miles.
BHL says the supplying dealership confirmed that there were no known faults for this 
particular car specification, and that the parts couldve failed because of the way the car was 
driven, maintained or serviced.
BHL also said that, because of the two years that had elapsed since Mr P acquired the car, 
and the fact that hed driven more than 50,000 miles in this time without trouble, any issues 
with either the timing chain or the turbo could not have been present or developing at the 
point of sale.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that just because there had been faults with the car and Mr P had paid to have 
them rectified, this didnt mean that the car had been of unsatisfactory quality when it had 
been supplied two years earlier. He said that this, taken in conjunction with the fact that Mr P 
had had 50,000 miles of trouble-free driving meant it was unlikely that the faults with either 
the timing chain or turbo were present or developing when the car was supplied  the car 
simply wouldnt have operated in a usable manner for this length of time.
Mr P disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. He says the mileage driven is 
irrelevant, and the repairs hes paid for are not reasonable wear and tear.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, but 
I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mr P is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. BHL is also the supplier 
of the goods under this type of agreement, and it is responsible for a complaint about their 
quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied "the quality of the goods is satisfactory". The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other relevant 
circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state and 
condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom 
from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods. So, 
what I need to consider in this case is whether the car supplied to Mr P was of satisfactory 
quality or not.
The CRA also says that, where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed 
the fault was present when the car was supplied. But, if the fault is identified after the first six 
months, then its for Mr P to prove the fault was present when he first acquired the car. 
Having considered all the evidence, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons. To be honest, theres very little I can add to what hes 
already said, and I think hes set out the position very clearly in his view.
I dont think theres any dispute that Mr P has experienced problems with the car. That has 
been well evidenced by both his testimony and the documents hes sent us about the repairs 
hes had to undertake. But, whilst I accept that there have been issues with both the timing 
chain and the turbo, BHL would only be responsible for putting things right if Im satisfied that 
they were present or developing when the car was supplied. That is to say, the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when Mr P acquired it, more than two years earlier. And because the 
timing chain and the turbo needed replacing more than six months after the car was 
supplied, its for Mr P to prove that these faults existed (or were developing) when he first 
acquired the car.Ive considered very carefully what Mr P told us, and the subject of durability. But, having 
done so, I cant uphold this complaint. I say this because, given the cars mileage, I think its 
reasonable to expect to have to repair or replace major components sooner than may have 
been the case in a lower mileage car.
If the car had done limited mileage since Mr P took possession of it, I mightve thought it 
possible that the issues were there when the car was supplied. But hed completed 50,000 in 
a little over two years  a significantly greater level of mileage than the average driver. The 
nature of the cars usage also means that its more likely that the cars components have 
been subject to a greater degree of testing, stress and general wear and tear. And Mr P 
hasnt been able to provide anything, such as a report from the garage that did the repairs, 
to say that these issues were present when the car was supplied.
Because of this, considering all the relevant circumstances, Im not persuaded that Mr Ps 
car was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied. So, I dont think BHL are responsible for the 
costs of repairing it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman