DRN-4165248
The complaint
Mr C complains through a representative that Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans 
(Shelby) provided him with loans without carrying out sufficient affordability checks. 
What happened
Mr C was granted two loans from Shelby and a summary of the borrowing can be found 
below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentsmonthly 
repayment
1 £100.00 16/09/2021 21/12/2021 3 £51.58
2 £400.00 08/02/2022 22/08/2022 6 £130.33
Shelby considered Mr Cs complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to 
provide these loans based on proportionate checks. Unhappy with this response, Mr Cs 
representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, who didnt uphold it. She said, Shelby had 
carried out proportionate checks before each loan was approved which demonstrated Mr C 
could potentially afford his repayments. 
Mr Cs representative didnt agree and asked for a final decision. As no agreement has been 
reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Shelby had to assess the lending to check if Mr C could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Shelbys checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Cs income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Shelby should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr C. These factors include:
Mr C having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr C having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr C coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr C. The adjudicator didnt consider it 
applied in Mr Cs complaint and I agree because there was only two loans. 
 
Shelby was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr C was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Cs complaint.
Having reviewed everything, Shelby carried out the same sort of checks before each loan 
was advanced and in my view these checks were proportionate and showed it that Mr C 
could afford his repayments. Ive explained why Ive come to this conclusion below. 
Before each loan was approved, Shelby asked for details of Mr Cs income and expenditure. 
Mr Cs income was declared as being £2,100 per month for loan one and £2,300 per month 
for loan two. Shelby also says this amount was electronically checked with a credit reference 
agency to verify its accuracy.
He also declared monthly outgoings of £1,460 for loan one and £1,285 for loan two.  As part 
of the application process Shelby compared what Mr C had declared about his income and 
expenditure with data from Office of National Statistics (ONS) and secondly, it used 
information from Mr Cs credit search (which Ill go into in more detail below). And having 
done so, Shelby didnt consider that it needed to make any adjustments to the figures 
provided to it by Mr C.  And so, based solely, on the income and expenditure data the loans 
looked affordable. 
Before each loan was approved Shelby also carried out a credit search and it has provided a 
summary of the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here 
that although Shelby carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do 
one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what Shelby couldnt do is carry out a credit 
search and then not react to the information it received.  
Having reviewed the credit check results, my view is there isnt anything contained within 
them that wouldve indicated that Mr C was having financial difficulties at the time of the 
applications, for example it knew there were no insolvency markers or defaults recorded 
within the 12 months preceding each loan. 
There also wasnt anything within the results that indicated Mr C was reliant on these sorts of 
high-cost credit loans. And while the results did show, for both loans that Mr C had one 
active payday loan there wasnt any indication from the results that Mr C was regularly 
opening such accounts. 
It did know about a County Court Judgement, but I dont think that on its own, when taking 
with the other credit file information wouldve led Shelby to do any further checks  such as 
prompting it to have declined Mr Cs applications or to have reviewed his bank statements. Overall, and taking account of all of the information, there wasnt enough to have led Shelby 
to believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information 
Shelby received. So, while Mr Cs representatives have provided copy bank statements it 
wouldve been, in my view, disproportionate for Shelby to have considered them. 
Given the evidence provided, I think the checks Shelby carried out before each loan was 
proportionate which showed it that Mr C would be able to afford the repayments, he was 
committed to making. There also wasnt anything else to suggest that Mr C was having 
financial difficulties or that these loans would be unsustainable for him. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Cs complaint. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman