DRN-2052984
The complaint
Mr H complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) avoided his motor insurance 
policy, kept his premium and are refusing to pay his claim.
During this decision I will refer to the insurer and all associated parties as Calpe. 
What happened
Mr H took out a motor policy with Calpe through a price comparison site. When his car went 
on fire, he tried to make a claim. However, the claim was declined, and the policy avoided. 
Calpe said Mr H had answered the question it asked about unspent non-driving convictions 
incorrectly. And it considered this to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation, 
which entitled it to avoid the policy, decline the claim and keep the premium hed already 
paid.
Mr H didnt agree so brought his complaint to us. But our investigator thought that Calpe 
hadnt done anything wrong. The investigator agreed there had been a qualifying 
misrepresentation and agreed it was deliberate or reckless and that Calpe were entitled to 
avoid the policy and retain the premium Mr H had paid without paying the claim.
Mr H doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Calpe thinks Mr H failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
didnt declare the named drivers unspent non-driving conviction. And this allowed Calpe to
avoid his policy.
In deciding whether Mr H took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation or not when
he took out his policy, Ive looked at the evidence available. Ive seen the question Mr H was 
asked about the unspent non-driving convictions of a named driver. And from what I have 
seen, and from what hes said, Im satisfied Mr H didnt declare any unspent non-driving 
convictions for any driver on this policy. 
And even though Mr H is adamant he asked the named driver if he had any unspent non-
driving convictions, and he says the named driver said he had none, I think the evidence Ive 
seen on file would support Calpes view that Mr H failed to take reasonable care in 
answering the question. So, Im satisfied that Mr M failed to take reasonable care to not 
make a misrepresentation.
I also need to decide whether Calpe wouldve offered Mr H cover under different terms or
at all, if he hadnt misrepresented. Ive looked at Mr Hs policy documentation and the
acceptance criteria. The underwriters of the policy have stated that it wouldnt have accepted 
the risk, if it had been made aware of the named drivers conviction. So, Im satisfied that 
if Calpe had known about the conviction, it wouldnt have provided the policy in the
first place.
But even though Mr H stated that he was unaware of the named drivers conviction, he also 
argues that the website, through which this policy was routed from the price comparison site 
at inception, says that it welcomes enquiries from drivers with non-motoring convictions. He 
also says that most insurers that he has checked with wouldve allowed him to pay an 
additional premium for the named driver, and he thinks thats what shouldve happened here. 
The screenshots Ive seen on file do suggest that Calpe are part of a panel of insurers who 
specialise in helping drivers who find it hard to get affordable insurance due to non-
standard circumstances. But that doesnt mean it would just accept Mr H, and his named 
driver. Calpe has confirmed via a note from one of its underwriters that the named driver on 
this policy was an unacceptable risk. Insurers are allowed to decide what is and isnt a risk 
they are willing to accept. But, in any event, the unspent convictions of the named driver 
were never declared at inception. And this makes Mr Hs argument invalid as an insurer can 
only rate on the information its given. If the non-driving conviction had been declared when 
Mr H was asked about it, its likely he wouldve been directed to another insurer on the 
panel. 
So, Im satisfied Mr H has made a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA and that it did 
make a difference. Therefore, Calpes decision to avoid the policy was reasonable because 
it wouldnt have provided cover.
I also need to decide whether Mr Hs misrepresentation was deliberate, reckless or careless.
This is significant because Calpe can only retain a premium if a misrepresentation was
deliberate or reckless.
Calpe has said Mr Hs misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. And whilst I appreciate 
the argument that Mr H has made, where he says he wasnt aware of the named drivers 
unspent non-driving conviction, I think, based on the evidence Ive seen on file, that its more 
likely than not Mr H knew of the named drivers unspent non-driving conviction. I think Calpe 
has acted appropriately and looking at the actions Calpe can take in accordance with 
CIDRA, and Im satisfied that Calpe hasnt done anything wrong by deeming this as a 
deliberate or reckless misrepresentation. 
The actions taken by Calpe are in line with the remedies detailed in CIDRA. And because of 
this I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman