DRN-3167884
The complaint
Mr M complains that TFS Loans Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.  
What happened
Mr M was given a single loan by TFS in March 2017. He borrowed £7,500 and agreed to 
repay the loan in 48 monthly instalments. Mr M repaid his loan in December 2020.
Mr Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the results 
of TFSs checks should have led the lender to conclude that Mr M was facing problems 
managing his money. So he didnt think the loan should have been agreed, and asked TFS 
to pay Mr M some compensation.
TFS didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, 
it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If 
Mr M accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Ms complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time TFS gave this loan to Mr M required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so TFS had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr M. In practice this 
meant that TFS had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr M undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr M. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr M.
TFS gathered some information from Mr M before it agreed the loan. It asked him for details 
of his income, and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file to assess how much 
he was repaying to other creditors and how he had managed credit in the past.
Mr M was entering into a significant commitment with TFS. He would need to make monthly 
repayments for a period of four years. So I think it was right that TFS wanted to gather, and 
independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ms financial circumstances before 
it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks Ive described above were sufficient to 
achieve that aim  I think TFSs checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. And 
that is what I think should have happened in this case.  
The credit checks results showed that Mr M was heavily indebted across a range of other 
credit accounts including bank overdrafts, loans, credit cards, hire purchase agreements and 
mail order accounts. In total he had at least 14 other active accounts with outstanding 
balances amounting to more than £30,000. And Mr Ms credit file showed that he had 
opened and closed a significant number of short-term loans over the past year.
I accept that the credit check suggested that Mr M was managing his credit in line with the 
agreements hed taken  it showed little evidence of late or missing payments. But that in no 
way suggests that Mr M was repaying his credit in a sustainable manner. In fact I think it 
shows the opposite  it seems relatively likely that Mr M was using new credit to meet his 
existing liabilities. I think that in itself would be a strong reason to decline his application for a 
new loan.
Even if I was minded (which for clarity I am not) that the results of the credit check should 
have simply led TFS to undertake some further checks, I think it most likely that those too 
would have supported a decision to not lend to Mr M. Mr M has told us that at the time he 
asked for this loan he was suffering from what he now knows was a gambling problem. 
Mr M hasnt been able to provide his bank statements from the time of the loan. But he has 
given us statements from around five months later. And I think those clearly reflect the 
problems he said he was facing. On balance, given the pattern of his earlier borrowing and 
the extent of his indebtedness, I think it almost certain that these gambling problems were 
present at the time he asked for the loan from TFS.So in conclusion I think the results of TFSs checks should have led the lender to conclude 
that Mr M was facing serious problems managing his money, and that any further credit 
would have simply worsened those problems. I dont think TFS should have agreed to give 
this loan to Mr M, and so it needs to pay him some compensation.  
Putting things right
I dont think TFS should have agreed to lend to Mr M in March 2017. So TFS should;
refund all the interest and charges Mr M paid on the loan 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the loan
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put 
things right as detailed above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman