DRN-3427478
The complaint
Mr S complains that he has suffered a financial loss as a result of ReAssure Limited (at the 
time Guardian Financial Services) giving him unsuitable advice to contribute to a personal 
pension instead of a defined benefit pension scheme with his employer.
For ease, Ill refer to Guardian Financial Services as ReAssure within this decision.
What happened
In May 1991 Mr S was advised by ReAssure to contribute to a personal pension plan, 
instead of his employers defined benefit pension scheme.  
In October 1994, the regulator at the time set up a review known as the Pension Review. 
This was to address concerns about the possible mis-selling of personal pensions between 
29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994.
ReAssure carried out a Pension Review for Mr S. It concluded that Mr S had been 
disadvantaged by its advice to contribute to a personal pension instead of his employers 
defined benefit scheme. 
The defined benefit scheme that had been available with Mr Ss employer had closed to new 
members on 31 December 1992 (Ill call this Scheme One). From 1 January 1993, Mr Ss 
employer offered a new defined benefit scheme (Ill call this Scheme Two). ReAssure 
offered to buy back pensionable service within Scheme Two, which Mr S accepted.
Mr S has recently spoken with colleagues and says that members of Scheme One (on 
similar salaries to him with similar length of service) have greater cash equivalent transfer 
values in their pensions than he does (a difference of over £100,000). Mr S thought 
ReAssure ought to have made sure that he was not disadvantaged as a result of joining 
Scheme Two rather than Scheme One. He complained to ReAssure on this basis.
ReAssure said it had carried out the Pension Review in line with the guidelines set by the 
regulator. It explained that Mr Ss employer had said he couldnt join Scheme One, and that 
Scheme Two was broadly the same. It said this was made clear to Mr S in its offer letter of 
15 May 1996.
Mr S brought a complaint to this service, but our investigator didnt think ReAssure needed 
to do anything further to put things right. Mr S disagreed with our investigators findings, and 
so the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Pension Review was arranged as a one-off exercise. It was designed to provide finality 
to both parties, so that financial businesses could provide redress for instances of mis-selling 
and also draw a line under the matter. The methodology for putting things right was set by 
the regulator. The financial business had to determine whether it was possible for the 
consumer to be reinstated into their previous defined benefit scheme, and if so, to arrange 
this and place the consumer back in the position they would have been (as far as possible). 
After carrying out the Pension Review, ReAssure wrote to Mr S on 15 May 1996. In this 
letter ReAssure explained that Scheme One and Scheme Two differed in a few respects. But 
it thought there was little material difference between the two schemes if Mr S retired at age 
65. To put things right, it offered to cancel his personal pension and transfer the value to 
Scheme Two, and then top up this amount to buy back pensionable service into Scheme 
Two for the relevant years.
I see that Mr Ss employer had told ReAssure about the differences between Scheme One 
and Scheme Two. These were: - employee contribution amounts; final pensionable pay 
rules; early retirement rules; and redundancy rules. 
Having considered these differences, it seems that Scheme One was a little more flexible. 
For example, under Scheme One a pension could be paid in the event of redundancy if age 
50 or over, whereas under Scheme Two there was only the option for a deferred pension. 
Nonetheless, I would agree with ReAssure that if Mr S retired at age 65, there was little 
material difference between the two schemes. 
ReAssures letter of May 1996 explained that Scheme One had three levels of contributions 
(3%, 5% and 6%), whereas members in Scheme Two had to pay 5%. To ensure that Mr S 
wasnt disadvantaged by this, it used a contribution rate of 6% in its calculations. I think that 
was fair.
However, Mr S has not suggested that he has suffered a loss because of differences in rules 
between the two schemes. Instead he says that colleagues of his in Scheme One have 
higher cash transfer values than he does.
As Scheme One and Scheme Two were separate schemes, it is to be expected that the 
investment returns for the two schemes will have differed over the years. Whilst Mr S may 
well now be better off if he had joined Scheme One, that was not possible at the time of the 
Pension Review, as confirmed to ReAssure by Mr Ss employer. I see no reason to require 
ReAssure to now calculate Mr Ss potential loss, as that would effectively mean carrying out 
the Pension Review again. I would only require ReAssure to do this if there were evidence 
that it had made an error in its initial calculations, but that is not the case here.
Although there were differences between the two schemes, the only action ReAssure could 
have taken at the time to ensure Mr S was not disadvantaged by joining Scheme Two rather 
than Scheme One was in respect of contributions. Im satisfied it did this. If ReAssure had 
not reinstated Mr S into Scheme Two, the alternative would have been to pay a lump sum 
into his personal pension based on the regulators methodology and predicted investment 
growth rates. However, the regulators preferred option was for reinstatement, and so I find 
that ReAssure acted reasonably here. 
Whilst Mr S may well be correct when he says that he has now suffered a loss by not joining 
Scheme One, for the above reasons, I dont require ReAssure to look into the matter again. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman