DRN-3592412
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) will not refund the money he lost after 
paying for an item he did not receive.
What happened
Mr C was looking for a smart watch online when he found the profile of someone selling 
the watch he wanted on a selling page of a social networking site. The profile Mr C found 
was a number of years old and appeared to have genuine posts and photographs.  
Mr C shared some messages with the seller and they agreed a price of £190. The seller 
told Mr C that once they had received the payment, they would send the watch. 
The seller provided their bank account details and Mr C made the transfer from his Monzo 
account online. 
Once Mr C had made the payment, the communication with the seller stopped and Mr C 
didnt receive the watch - so he contacted Monzo for help. Mr C explained that he thought 
he had been the victim of a scam and explained what had happened. 
Monzo went on to consider whether it should refund Mr C for his loss. But it turned down 
his claim for a refund and said he didnt take enough steps to check who he was paying 
was legitimate. When Mr C complained, Monzo said it had acted in line with its internal 
procedures and regulatory guidelines. 
Mr C brought his complaint to our service as he wasnt happy with the banks decision.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. Monzo 
is not a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (the 
CRM Code) but it has agreed to adhere to it regardless. This means Monzo has made a 
commitment to reimburse customers who are victims of authorised push payment scams 
except in limited circumstances. Our Investigator didnt think any of those circumstances 
applied here.
The investigator said Monzo had not been able to establish that Mr C did not have a 
reasonable basis for believing that the payee was the person he was expecting to pay, the 
payment was for genuine goods and/or that the person he was transacting with was 
legitimate. In reaching that position, they placed weight on the social media selling platform 
as a recognised and informal selling site. They pointed out that the profile in question had 
been established for a number of years and appeared to have genuine posts. They also 
said the price requested was reasonable for a second-hand smart watch like the one in 
question. For these reasons, our investigator thought Monzo should have fully reimbursed 
Mr Cs loss.
Monzo disagreed. It said the price of the smart watch was too good to be true. It said it 
had been able to find the watch for sale for £250 and therefore the cost of the watch 
shouldve been of concern to Mr C. It also pointed to some best practice standards set out 
by the social networking site itself which said users should use Paypal and not electronic 
transfer when making purchases through the site. Monzo didnt think Mr C had taken heed 
of this. It also pointed out that profiles on the site were easily faked and shouldnt be relied 
on as factual  the amount of time the profile had been in place was no way to verify its 
legitimacy. Finally, it said it had provided a scam warning to Mr C at the time the payment 
was made and it had also informed him the payees details did not match the account he 
was transferring to, yet he had proceeded regardless. Overall, Monzo was of the opinion 
that Mr C should have done more due diligence before making the payment. 
Our Investigator wasnt minded to change their view of the complaint. They acknowledged 
that the price was lower than the average price found by Monzo but although cheaper, this 
didnt mean that the price should be considered too good to be true on this occasion, 
especially as the item would be considered second-hand. She also pointed out that she 
had found the item for sale at a similar price to the one paid by Mr C. She pointed out that 
the very nature of the selling site used meant it was geared towards informal private sales 
and there wasnt a requirement for purchases to be made via PayPal. She also pointed out 
that Mr C had said hed previously received messages from Monzo saying the accounts 
details didnt match when paying friends and family and the payment still reached them. 
She also highlighted that the warnings Mr C had seen at the time werent specific to the 
scam he was falling victim to and for these reasons she didnt think it was unreasonable for 
Mr C to have moved past the Confirmation of Payee (CoP) and scam warnings.  
Monzo did not agree. It maintained the view that Mr C did not have a reasonable basis for 
belief when making this payment. It thought he had sent the payment to an unknown 
individual online without a proper basis for trusting them and reiterated the points it had 
made previously. Monzo maintained that it had no obligation to refund the loss when 
correctly applying the CRM Code.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required 
to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the 
consumer even though they authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Monzo should have reimbursed Mr C in line with the provisions of the CRM Code it has agreed to adhere to and whether it ought to have done more to protect Mr C from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Theres no dispute here that Mr C was tricked into making the payment. He thought he 
would receive a smart watch in exchange for his money and the seller did not keep to their 
side of that bargain. But this isnt enough, in and of itself, for Mr C to receive a refund of 
the money under the CRM Code. The Code also places a level of care on Mr C.
The CRM Code
Monzo has agreed to adhere to the provisions of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a 
limited number of circumstances.
It is for Monzo to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under 
one or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code if it believes its customer 
should not receive a refund of the amount lost. In this case, Monzo has explained its key 
concern is whether Mr C made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that 
the payee was the person he was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or 
services; and/or the person or business with whom he transacted was legitimate. There 
are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of the 
customer and the complexity of the scam, I am not persuaded the concerns Monzo has 
raised about the legitimacy of the transaction Mr C was making are enough to support its 
position that he failed to meet his requisite level of care under the CRM Code. It follows that 
I do not think Monzo has been able to establish that it may choose not to reimburse Mr C 
under the terms of the Code.
Having thought about what both sides have said and provided, I consider Mr C had a 
reasonable basis for believing the payment he was making was for genuine goods and that 
the person he was transacting with was legitimate. In reaching that conclusion, I have 
thought carefully about what it is realistic to have expected Mr C to do when he was 
looking to spend a total of £190 online.
The screenshots provided show the sellers profile had been established for a number of 
years. Mr C has told us that there appeared to be a number of genuine posts. The profile 
appeared to be that of a private individual who posted regularly. 
Having considered this, I dont think there was anything obviously untoward about the 
seller. And I dont agree with Monzo that the amount of time the profile was in place should 
not have been a factor in Mr Cs decision-making process. There is an assumption that 
scam profiles will be reported and taken down relatively soon after they have been set-up 
once their victims become aware of the scam. And so I can understand why a profile 
having been available for many years would have lulled Mr C into a false sense of security 
at the time he made the payment. And Im not satisfied that Monzo has placed enough 
weight on the fact that this appeared to be a private sale between two individuals and so it 
is difficult to see what more Mr C couldve done to establish that the seller was who they 
said they were. I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr C to have believed the seller was 
who they said they were and from what Mr C recalls that he saw, he had no reason to 
think the seller would not keep to their side of the bargain on this occasion. He had used 
the selling site many times prior to this and had conducted many successful purchases.Ive thought about the price Mr C paid thinking he was getting a second-hand smart watch.  
Monzo feels that the price offered by the seller at the time the smart watch was purchased 
was not feasible and it has pointed to sales showing a higher purchase cost. It says Mr C 
should have reflected on whether this was too good to be true  a warning had popped up 
during the payment process to tell him to do just that. But I dont think the price the seller 
gave was so low that it meant Mr C ought to have questioned it more in his own mind 
especially when viewed in the context of the overall situation Mr C found himself in. People 
can and do find good deals online. The watch was second-hand, and this was a private 
sale between two private individuals. The seller may have had reasons for selling the watch 
that meant they were happy to take a slightly lower price. And so, whilst I accept that the 
cost of the item was slightly lower than expected, Im not persuaded that it was so low that it 
shouldve caused Mr C concern.
Even though Monzo has said it believes there was more Mr C could have done to assure 
himself that he could trust the seller, I am not persuaded Mr C needed to make such 
extensive enquiries in the particular circumstances of this case. Ive thought carefully about 
the price of the item Mr C wanted to buy and the fact that this was a private sale. Whilst the 
situation is finely balanced, I think Mr Cs actions and assessment of the situation was 
appropriate and proportionate to a relatively unremarkable payment of £190.
I also agree with our investigator that it wasnt unreasonable for Mr C to have moved 
past the Confirmation of Payee (CoP) warning that he would have seen at the time. 
Monzo has said this wouldve informed Mr C that the details of the person he was 
sending to did not match those of the account he was intending to pay. But Mr C had 
seen the CoP message before when hed paid relatives and friends and theyd still 
received the payments. And so Im not persuaded that Mr C wouldve thought this an 
indicator of a potential scam and so I dont think it was unreasonable for him to have 
moved past it.
Ive also looked at the warnings that Monzo said were provided to Mr C during the payment 
process itself and I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr C to not realise they might be 
applicable to him at the time. 
The warning starts of by saying You were told your account is at risk, to make an 
unexpected payment, or to take out a loan, and later mentions You were told to ignore 
warnings like this but these points arent relevant to the scam Mr C was unknowingly falling 
victim to - he wasn't falling victim to a safe account scam, and he wasnt being coached by 
the scammer on what to do during the payment process. So, I dont think its unreasonable 
he moved past this warning considering it wasnt relevant to him.
I acknowledge that the warning goes on to say to not continue with the payment if the offer 
sounds too good to be true & You havent double checked who youre paying. But as Ive 
said above, I dont think the price was too good to be true. And Mr C had thought the longevity 
of the profile was indicative that this person was genuine. I dont agree with Monzo that a 
relatively small amount of friends indicated that it wasnt. And so I dont think any of these 
prompts wouldve given Mr C pause for thought either. 
The site in question is a well-established site used primarily for the purpose of private 
second-hand sales between private individuals  such as the one Mr C entered into. Whilst 
I acknowledge that the best practice guidance on the site itself directs potential buyers to 
purchase via Paypal, it does not preclude the sale of items via bank transfer which is often 
used as a payment method in private sales such as the one now in question here.   Weighing everything up, I dont think it would have been evident to Mr C that there was a 
considerable degree of risk associated with this purchase. The seller appeared to have a 
long established profile and the price wasnt so low that it shouldve appeared unrealistic. I 
am not persuaded it did occur to him that there was a possibility he wouldnt receive the 
item or that it might not be genuine. Fraudsters are masterful at building trust and 
confidence and it is not realistic to expect Mr C to have the same awareness of what 
scams like this can look and feel like as the bank does. As Ive said above, Mr C had 
successfully bought items from sellers on this site before. I think Mr C took enough care 
with a relatively modest purchase of £190 to say that he had a reasonable basis for 
believing he was buying genuine goods from a legitimate seller. I dont believe he took a 
calculated chance by going ahead with the purchase in the circumstances he did.
Overall, I dont think Mr Cs actions fell below the level of care expected of him in this 
situation. I think Monzo ought to have fully refunded Mr C at the time he reported the loss 
and so it should fairly and reasonably compensate Mr C by refunding that loss now.
Putting things right
The Code explains that where a customer has met their requisite level of care (which as Ive 
explained, Im satisfied was the case here) they should be refunded all of the money that 
was lost.
So I think its fair that Monzo refunds the £190 Mr C lost, along with 8% simple interest 
from the date Monzo declined his claim until the date the funds are returned.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Monzo Bank Ltd to pay the 
settlement as Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman