DRN-3880356
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as B has complained that Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) unfairly
declined its business interruption insurance claim.
Mr S, a director of B, brought the complaint on Bs behalf. As B has since gone into 
liquidation the Official Receiver has given consent for us to consider Bs complaint. 
What happened
B held business interruption insurance with Lloyds. B claimed on its policy after being 
impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. Lloyds turned down
Bs claim as they didnt think B had closed due to Covid-19 manifesting itself at the
premises.
B complained to Lloyds as it thought cover should be provided under the clause for denial of
access and the clause for disease. Under the clause for disease, B said the trigger for the
policy to provide cover was the Government closure. It didnt think it was the intention of the
parties when entering into the contract to check that the disease was present at the 
premises as it said this was unrealistic. In relation to the clause for denial of access it
thought the clause was clearly intended to cover circumstances where access to the
premises is prevented. B said as the policy didnt exclude cover for pandemics, it clearly
wasnt Lloyds intention not to cover them.
Lloyds said Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to property. They said that B had closed due to
the Government restrictions rather than because of a case of Covid-19 manifesting at its
premises. Lloyds maintained that they had made the correct decision in declining Bs claim.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, B brought its complaint to our service. B thought it was
entitled to £250,000 under each clause. B said its business had been closed because of
Covid-19 which was physical damage.
B said that Covid-19 had manifested at the premises. It provided written statements from a
number of its employees as well as positive antibody tests for some employees. It also
provided data to indicate that it was likely Covid-19 had manifested at its premises due to the
number of people who visited the premises and the prevalence of Covid-19 in the area. B
referred to the Supreme Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Business
Interruption Insurance test case in support of its claim and the evidence it had provided.
Our investigator looked into Bs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt think
the extension for denial of access provided cover because Covid-19 hadnt caused damage
to property and he didnt think B had shown Covid-19 had manifested at the premises.
B asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Before I reached a decision B provided further evidence in support of Covid-19 having
manifested at its premises. It also referred to two complaints upheld by our service which it
thought were similar.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 14 November 2022 where I explained 
why I didnt intend to uphold this complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
B has claimed for two periods of lockdown. As they are separate claims in this decision I am
only commenting of the claim for losses between March and July 2020.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Bs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Lloyds have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Bs claim.
B has made a number of detailed points. Im not going to address them all in this decision
and will instead focus on what I consider to be the central points.
Denial of access
Bs policy says that it covers:
...Loss or Damage resulting from interruption or interference with the Business in
consequence of Loss or Damage (as within defined) to Property within a one mile
radius of the Premises or Loss or Damage to which shall prevent the use of the
Premises or access thereto whether the Premises or Property of the Insured
The policy defines loss or damage as tangible loss destruction or damage. For this to
provide cover the interruption or interference to Bs business would need to be as a result of
tangible loss, destruction or damage to property within a one mile radius of the premises.
I think that, for loss or damage to have occurred, there would need to be a physical change
or altered state to property, within one mile of Bs premises which made it less valuable.
Alternatively, its possible damage could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was
required to remove the cause of potential damage. However, I havent seen anything to
persuade me that Covid-19 caused a tangible loss, destruction or damage to property within
a one mile radius and therefore this doesnt cover Bs claim.
B said that the Supreme Court found that Covid-19 caused physical damage. However, the
Supreme Court didnt consider clauses which required there to be damage in order to 
provide cover and Ive seen nothing within the Courts findings which concluded that Covid-
19 caused physical damage.
B has also referred to the findings of the High Court in the FCA test case and the judgment
in Corbin and King Ltd v AXA Insurance UK Plc [2022] EWHC 409 (Comm). However the
clauses considered by the courts were different to that in Bs policy and as Bs policy
requires there to have been damage to property, the judgments dont impact Bs claim.
Disease
The policy also covers:Closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval
of the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable
contagious and/or infectious human disease manifesting itself at the Premises
I understand that B thinks the trigger for cover is the closure or restrictions on the premises
by the public authority. However, as there are a number of parts to the clause, all of them
need to apply in order for cover to be triggered. B said this couldnt be the intention of the
policy when the parties entered into it, but I think the clause is clear about what is required,
and Im not persuaded that Lloyds didnt intend the closure or restrictions to be as a result of
a disease manifesting itself at the premises.
Covid-19 is a notifiable disease. So for this extension to provide cover for Bs claim, the
closure or restrictions placed on the premises would need to be as a result of a case of
Covid-19 manifesting itself at Bs premises. I think a court would most likely find that for
Covid-19 to have manifested itself someone would either need to have been diagnosed or
been displaying symptoms which on balance were most likely Covid-19.
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-
19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a
positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a
case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that Covid-19
manifested itself at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the
burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its
policy covers.
B has provided written statements from a number of employees as well as other evidence. I
will address each of these in turn below.
Mr S provided a statement in November 2021 which said he suspected he had Covid-19
from 24 March until 2 April. He said he felt flu-ey and had headaches and a tighter chest
than usual. He said he continued to work as he controlled his symptoms with medication.
However, even if Mr S had Covid-19, on the basis of his original statement, his symptoms
occurred after the announcement requiring B to close. So I dont think it would be
considered one of the cases of Covid-19 which led to the Governments closure of B.
Mr S provided a new statement in October 2022 which said that his symptoms had started in 
the middle of March 2020 and got worse around 15 March. Mr S has clarified that his son
reminded him of the sequence of events but Im less persuaded by this because I think the
statement given closer to the time is more likely to be accurate. So Im not persuaded that
Mr S displayed symptoms of Covid-19 at the premises prior to being required to close.
An employee Ill refer to as K said their mother had Covid-19 at the beginning of March
2020. K attended work as they didnt display any symptoms of Covid-19 and has provided a
positive antibody test result from July 2020. While the antibody test indicates that K most
likely had Covid-19 in the previous months, even if it was while K was at the insured
premises, as K didnt display any symptoms I dont think it can be said that Covid-19
manifested itself at the premises.
There is a positive antibody test from an employee who Ill refer to as H from June 2020, but
B has confirmed that H wasnt at the insured premises while unwell. An employee who Ill
refer to as M2 said they were unwell with a fever, vomiting, aches and fatigue from 8 to 12March 2020. However, B has confirmed that M2 wasnt at the premises while unwell. So I
dont think their illnesses show its most likely that Covid-19 manifested at the insured
premises.
An employee Ill refer to as W said they were unwell during the first week of March 2020.
They said they lost their sense of taste and smell and had continuous coughing. They said
they had been working before realising the symptoms could be Covid-19. An employee Ill
refer to as M said they were unwell from 16 to 21 March 2020. They said they were unwell at
work and then had two days off sick before returning to work while still feeling unwell.
While W and Ms symptoms are consistent with Covid-19, I have to bear in mind that many
people who were unwell at this time didnt have Covid-19 and the symptoms could have
been of other illnesses. W and M have provided statements, but I havent been provided
with any contemporaneous evidence to show that they were unwell or what their symptoms
were. B has provided timesheets showing that M and W were off work, but this doesnt show
why they were away or that they were meant to be working on those days. So I dont think
this is enough to show its most likely Covid-19 manifested at the premises.
There is a text message from another employee, who Ill call B2, asking a colleague to get
them some Paracetamol. B said this employee had a headache and needed to go home
early. However, I have to bear in mind that many people who were unwell at this time didnt
have Covid-19 so I dont think this evidence is enough to show Covid-19 most likely
manifested at the premises.
An employee Ill refer to as S said they developed a cough whilst on holiday and remained
unwell when returning to work on 8 March 2020. They said they had a sore throat and
weird tastes and took three days off work due to their illness, plus their usual two days off
and felt better after about five days. S provided a positive antibody test from 29 September
2020.
The antibody test indicates that S did have Covid-19 before September 2020. However,
given the time thats passed and the absence of other contemporaneous evidence, Im less
persuaded that this was most likely before B was required to close. So I dont think this is
enough to persuade me that Covid-19 manifested at Bs premises.
An employee Ill refer to as J said they woke up feeling unwell on 14 March 2020. They said
they had a fever, aches, a tight chest, painful abdomen and was breathing hard. J said they
also lost their sense of taste and smell for a number of months and still suffer from fatigue. J
received a positive antibody test in June 2020, so they did most likely have Covid-19 in the
previous months. When asked to clarify whether J had been at the premises while unwell, B
said that J was at its premises for about 15 minutes before being sent home by a colleague.
However, I dont have anything other than their comments to support this and I dont think
thats enough to persuade me that J was at the premises when unwell.
B also provided a statement which said that a visitor to the premises coughed on an
employee. As a cough can be a symptom of many things other than Covid-19, this isnt
enough to persuade me its most likely the person who coughed had Covid-19.
B has provided a lot of separate statements from members of staff in support of its claim
and its clear from the antibody tests that some of them had Covid-19 at some time.
However, as there is very little supporting evidence from the time of the illnesses, on
balance, I dont think I can say its more likely than not that Covid-19 manifested at Bs
premises. If B would like to provide any further evidence for me to consider, it should do so
by 28 November 2022.B has referred to the Supreme Courts comments on evidencing the existence of Covid-19
as it thinks the judgment indicates that its enough for Covid-19 to be within the local area.
The courts comments were in relation to clauses which required the disease to be within a
specified radius of the premises whereas Bs policy requires the disease to be at the
premises. Therefore, I consider that B needs to show its more likely than not there a case
manifested at its premises. Ive considered the data B has provided about the number of
people who visit the premises and the number of cases of Covid-19 in the area. However, I
dont think the general prevalence of cases in the local area, such as the Imperial College
data is enough to demonstrate that Covid-19 manifested at Bs premises in this case.
As I dont think B has done enough to show its most likely Covid-19 manifested on the
premises, I dont think there is cover under this clause within the policy. B has pointed to
decisions issued by our service which it thinks are similar. Im aware of these decisions but
in this particular complaint I dont think B has done enough to show its most likely Covid-19
manifested at its premises, so I think the circumstances differ from those other complaints.
I recognise this isnt the outcome B was hoping for but, having considered things very
carefully, I dont intend to uphold its complaint.
Lloyds responded but didnt provide any further comments. B disagreed and provided a 
detailed response. In summary, it said:
It reserved its rights in relation to other clauses but would focus its response on the 
disease clause. 
It is not in dispute that B was required to close by a public authority as a result of a 
notifiable disease. The remaining issue is whether Covid-19 manifested at the 
insured premises. B pointed out that there were five premises insured by the policy 
and the definition of premises in the policy is the Buildings and land used for the 
Business referred to in the Schedule and its/their surroundings occupied by the 
Insured in connection with the Business at the declared locations.
The High Courts comments (in the FCA test case) on when Covid-19 can be said to 
be manifested can be applied to this clause as the requirement for the disease to 
manifest at the premises is just a smaller geographical area than the 25 mile radius 
considered by the court. Therefore, B does not have to show that someone both 
displayed symptoms of Covid-19 and was diagnosed with Covid-19. B pointed to 
another decision from our service where it said this test had been correctly applied.  
B does not agree that the (highlighted in bold) part of my findings which say a court 
would most likely find that for Covid-19 to have manifested itself someone would 
either need to have been diagnosed or been displaying symptoms which on 
balance were most likely Covid-19. is correct as there is no requirement for the 
symptoms to be most likely Covid-19. Given the lack of testing at the time it would 
be very difficult for a policyholder to demonstrate that the symptoms were most likely 
Covid-19 and the requirement to do so places an unreasonable burden on the 
policyholder. 
B disagrees with my finding that many people who were unwell didnt have Covid-19. 
It said that on 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) said that cases 
of Covid-19 had increased 13-fold outside of China and there were 118,000 cases in 
114 countries. 
Given the lack of testing it is likely that reported cases were much lower than actual 
cases. To say that many people were unwell with other illnesses is unreasonable and 
places a higher burden of evidence than the courts. 
The High Court was sympathetic to the lack of testing available at the time and 
therefore said that absolute precision wasnt required to discharge the burden of 
proof. It is clear that B has demonstrated that a number of employees either had Covid-19 
or symptoms of Covid-19 leading up to its requirement to close. 
M was unwell from 16 March 2020 and suffered from fever and muscle pain, loss of 
taste and smell, tiredness and aching muscles whilst at work. The statement 
provided by M was signed and notarised.
W was unwell in the first week of March 2020 and suffered from loss of all taste and 
smell and continuous irritating cough for around two weeks. W attended work before 
realising what it might have been and later confirmed he attended work on 1, 2 and 3 
March 2022 whilst symptomatic. This statement is signed and dated November 2021.
S was unwell from the 3 March 2020 suffering from coughing and loss of taste, 
feeling worse at work and thereafter taking days off. S also had a positive antibody 
test in July 2020 (which provides credibility to the evidence and a presumption, which 
it is for the insurer to rebut, that his evidence is accurate). Ss statement from 
October 2022 is signed and notarised and the statement from November 2021 
statement is signed.
Mr S suffered with a headache and aching body from the middle of March 2020 and 
went to work as normal.
Timesheets have been provided to show that employees were not at work and it is an 
unreasonable burden to require additional evidence to demonstrate why they were 
not at work or that they were required to be at work.
With regard to Mr Ss recollection of the dates he was unwell, the first statement was 
given 18 months after the event, and it is natural for recollection to be difficult after 
that period of time. He was reminded of the correct dates in conversations with 
others and corrected the dates in the later statement.
The witness statements from employees, positive antibody tests and general 
prevalence of Covid-19 indicate that Covid-19 was most likely manifest at Bs 
premises and it is unreasonable to require further evidence. 
The evidence for other employees having Covid-19 whilst at the premises is less 
conclusive and B has not sought to provide further evidence on these because it 
believes the evidence for the others is strong enough to demonstrate that Covid-19 
manifested at Bs premises. 
B added that M, W and K were all young and fit employees who needed to earn 
money so would have come to work even if unwell. They would not have visited a 
doctor, some had milder symptoms they recovered within a few days. There were no 
precautions taken in early March 2020 and the buildings remained open, with 
employees working in close proximity. 
The insured premises are extensive and include not only the buildings but also large 
areas around the buildings used by the business which amounted to 10,000 square 
metres. 
The court did not require absolute precision and the number of people who visited 
the premises means that it is highly likely that one of them either had symptoms of 
Covid-19 or was diagnosed. 
The courts findings on causation mean that Bs claim should be paid if Covid-19 
manifested at its premises. 
The symptoms of Covid-19 can be similar to a cold or flu. B set out a number of 
Covid-19 symptoms. 
It provided a distribution based analysis which showed the number of visitors to the 
premises. 
The court approved the Imperial College analysis report which said that between 
1.88% and 11.3% of the population had Covid-19. Applying a mean figure of 2.7% to 
Bs figures would mean that 122 visitors would have had Covid-19 and only one case 
manifesting at the premises was needed to trigger cover. 
As an outcome to its complaint B would like Lloyds to pay the claim up to the 
£250,000 policy limit, plus interest and compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused as well as for consequential losses. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
B has provided a detailed response to my provisional decision. Given the informal nature of 
our service I am not going to comment on each point and as in my provisional decision will 
focus on the central issues. 
As B focused its response on the disease clause, I will also focus on that. I dont intend to go 
into detail on the comments B provided under the heading of causation as I dont believe 
that issue is in dispute.
What is meant by manifesting at Bs premises?
I have noted Bs comments in relation to whether the symptoms displayed by someone at 
Bs premises need to be most likely those of Covid-19 and I acknowledge that the courts 
comments dont state that the symptoms need to be, on balance, Covid-19. However, I dont 
agree with Bs interpretation of the comments the court did make. I do not think Covid-19 can 
be reasonably said to have manifested somewhere if the symptom displayed didnt arise 
from Covid-19. 
I am aware of the decision issued by one of my Ombudsman colleagues and I do not believe 
that my decision is a departure from their approach. In the decision referred to, the 
Ombudsman believed that the symptoms displayed were most likely as a result of someone 
having Covid-19, not merely that they displayed symptoms which were those associated with 
Covid-19. 
Moreover, even if Im wrong on this and someone did need to only display a symptom 
associated with Covid-19 in order to trigger cover Im still not persuaded that B has shown 
this happened.  
Bs evidence in support of Covid-19 manifesting at its premises
B has not provided any further evidence in response to my provisional decision but has set 
out why it thinks it is unreasonable for it to be required to provide anything further. 
I have noted Bs point that it thinks the evidential burden is higher than that of the courts. 
However, Im required to form my own view, in accordance with our own statutory 
framework, on what I consider the fair and reasonable outcome of the complaint should be. 
Thats what Ive done in determining this complaint. 
I recognise the difficulty caused by the lack of testing at the time. However, for me to uphold 
this complaint Id need to be persuaded that B has shown its most likely that Covid-19 
manifested at its business premises prior to it being required to close. And based on the 
information and evidence that B has provided Im not persuaded that B has shown this. 
B has asked me to reconsider Mr Ss testimony as it says his initial recollection wasnt 
accurate given the period of time which had passed between him being unwell and providing 
the details of the dates. I accept that recollections change over time, but I remain of the view 
that its more likely that Mr Ss initial recollections were more accurate as these were closer 
to the time and before he was aware of the relevance of the dates. I havent seen anything 
from the time of Mr Ss illness to support his more recent recollections and his account that his memory was jogged by a conversation with his son isnt enough to persuade me. 
I accept that the symptoms displayed by M, W and S are consistent with Covid-19 and I 
have noted Bs point that the WHO said there were 118,000 cases across 114 countries. 
Even taking into account undercounting due to a lack of testing, given how many people 
there are in the UK alone, that number isnt enough to persuade me that anyone who was 
unwell most likely had Covid-19. And even if it did, it remains that I only have the employees 
testimony and that of B to support that they had these symptoms and that they also had the 
symptoms whilst at Bs premises. As I explained in my provisional decision, while I can see 
that they were not working on certain days, I havent seen enough evidence from the time of 
illness to persuade me that they exhibited symptoms of Covid-19 at Bs premises.  
B said that Ss antibody test is from July 2020. The date on the test result is 29 September 
2020, although I recognise the test may have been done in July. However, even if Im wrong 
about the date of the test and the test was done in July thats not enough to persuade me 
that S most likely had Covid-19 whilst at Bs premises. They could have contracted it at any 
time in the months before July and I only have the statements to indicate that S displayed 
symptoms whilst at Bs premises. 
Given the lack of contemporaneous evidence of the symptoms displayed at the time and 
when at the premises, I remain of the opinion that Lloyds acted reasonably in declining Bs 
claim. 
Distribution analysis
I recognise that the policy definition of premises includes some outdoor areas as well as the 
buildings. However, it remains that Covid-19 needs to have manifested at those premises 
and not within a radius of the premises.
I have noted Bs points regarding the courts comments of absolute precision not being 
required when using a distribution analysis. In the Declarations (8.2) the High Court said:
(e) a distribution-based analysis  albeit absolute precision is not required to 
discharge the burden of proof  to demonstrate the geographical distribution of 
COVID-19 cases (where the policyholder relies on ONS Death Data or Reported 
Cases in an LTLA or another reporting area, and the relevant policy area is 
entirely within, or intersects, the LTLA or another reporting area);
(f) given the likely true number of cases of COVID-19 in the UK in March 2020 
was much higher than that shown in the Reported Cases, an undercounting 
analysis  albeit absolute precision is not required to discharge the burden of 
proof  to demonstrate the likely number of actual cases of COVID-19 in the 
relevant policy area.
At 8.1 the court said:
What evidence may prove actual prevalence will vary depending on the factual 
context, and for the purposes of different policies as well as the particular 
timing and location of a claim. Different inferences might be drawn from a 
combination of underlying data in different contexts.
The courts comments were in relation to clauses which required Covid-19 to have 
manifested within a radius of the premises, rather than at the premises themselves. 
And while I understand that Bs premises cover a wider area than just the buildings I 
think someone with symptoms of Covid-19 or who had been diagnosed would need to have been at Bs insured premises. In this case, its my opinion that, in this particular 
case, applying a mean percentage to the number of visitors from January to March 
2020 lacks sufficient detail to persuade me that its most likely that Covid-19 
manifested at Bs premises before it was required to close, particularly given that the 
known cases of Covid-19 in the UK in January and early February 2020 were limited. 
Ultimately, I have to make a decision based on what I think is fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances when considering the information available to me. I remain of the 
view that B hasnt demonstrated that its more likely than not that Covid-19 manifested 
at its premises prior to the requirement for it to close. Therefore, while I recognise the 
considerable financial impact of my decision on B, Im not going to uphold its complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman