DRN-3937863
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax closed his accounts and 
recorded a fraud prevention marker against him.
What happened
In 2018 Mr H opened an account with Halifax and made several payments from it. Halifax 
had concerns about some of these payments and made a decision to report the situation to 
a fraud prevention agency. It also gave Mr H notice that it would be closing his accounts and 
told him that hed need to repay the balance that was outstanding. 
Mr H told Halifax that his phone had been broken and that he hadnt received any letters. He 
then said that hed lost his card and hadnt reported it as lost or stolen, but hed tried to 
contact Halifax about this. Halifax told Mr H that biometric information had been used to 
access his online banking at the time of the payments. As Mr H said that no one else had 
biometric information recorded on his phone  Halifax maintained that it was acting by 
correctly in taking the actions it had here.
In 2022, Mr H then contacted Halifax again to complain about this. It didnt change its 
position though. So he brought his complaint to this service, where one of our investigators 
looked into it for him. They thought that Halifax had acted fairly and didnt think it needed to 
do anything more. Mr H disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me to reach a 
final decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The type of marker that Halifax reported here is in relation to a misuse of facility  this is in 
relation to the account being used to receive fraudulent funds. To file such a marker Halifax 
had to meet the relevant criteria and follow the guidance set by the fraud prevention agency. 
The relevant guidance says:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
So in the circumstances here, Halifax must be able to show that the payments in question 
were fraudulent and whether Mr H acted in such a way as to show he was aware of this and 
complicit in making them. If Mr H was, for example, unaware of the circumstances here then 
it may not be fair to report a marker. So I have to consider what the evidence shows.
Halifax has shown that Mr H opened his account and then very quickly made transactions 
that it viewed as suspicious. Having considered what Halifax has said about the 
circumstances around these transactions, I think it was fair that Halifax had concerns around 
these. The nature of the transactions here is in line with an account being opened and then 
very quickly used for fraudulent transactions of a certain type.
This is then supported by the fact that during the day, Halifax says that Mr Hs account was 
accessed online using biometric data unique to him. Mr H confirmed that no one else has 
information like this recorded on his account. The transactions in question would also have 
needed a PIN to be entered at the time, given the amounts involved. Only Mr H would have 
been likely to know that. There are also transactions made on the same day that Mr H hasnt 
disputed making. All of this persuades me that Halifax was entitled to have the concerns it 
did.
The guidance from the fraud prevention agency says that a business should give an account 
holder the opportunity to explain the activity on the account. Halifax did that here, both at the 
time that it recorded the marker and when Mr H complained. But Mr Hs version of events at 
the time was that he lost his card and phone. Halifax asked whether he reported his card 
and phone as lost, but he confirmed that he hadnt.
Then when Mr H later brought the complaint to us, he said that the security of his account 
had been breached. Then he said that he lost two cards and a notebook at work which also 
contained his PIN. He confirmed that hed never reported his cards as stolen to the bank or 
the police.
I cant see why, if this version of events is true, that Mr H didnt give Halifax these details 
back in 2018. Nor can I see why, if his card and account details were taken or lost, that he 
didnt report this to either Halifax or the police. When I consider these inconsistencies 
alongside:
Halifax saying that the account was accessed online on the day of the transactions 
with Mr Hs biometric details, without any explanation as to how someone could have 
done this,
other non-disputed payments being made on the same day,
the PIN number being used to facilitate the transactions,
then this all supports that its more likely than not that Mr H was aware and complicit in 
making the transactions fraudulently here  in the way Halifax suggests. That means that I 
think its entitled to continue to report the information it is to the fraud prevention agency.
Halifaxs terms and conditions explain that it can close an account where it suspects 
fraudulent activity. Based on the above, Im satisfied it was entitled to have taken this action 
here. It gave Mr H 60 days notice of its intention to do so and so I think it did so fairly. It 
follows that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman