DRN-4386841
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has withdrawn cover for treatment.
What happened
Mrs B has a private medical insurance policy, underwritten by Aviva. She was having 
treatment with a physiotherapist which Aviva said it would no longer authorise as Mrs Bs 
condition fell within its definition of a chronic condition  and so it was excluded under the 
terms of the policy. However, it agreed to fund five more sessions in total to conclude the 
claim. 
Mrs B complained to Aviva and unhappy with its response, referred her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. She said Aviva hadnt unfairly 
or incorrectly applied its definition to Mrs Bs condition. 
Mrs B disagreed and in summary, has made the following comments:
Her consultant does not agree that her condition is chronic
Avivas decision is not based on medical evidence
No up-to-date evidence was requested from her specialist
Aviva recently described what a chronic condition was at a staff meeting - Mrs Bs 
condition doesnt fit that description 
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy doesnt cover chronic conditions. These are defined in the policy as 
follows:
A chronic condition is defined as a disease, illness or injury that has one or more of 
the following characteristics:
It needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, 
examinations, check  ups and/or tests 
It needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms
It requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it 
It continues indefinitely 
It has no known cure 
It comes back or is likely to come back 
Aviva relied on a letter written by Mrs Bs physiotherapist which said her condition 
was long-term and the problem wasnt resolving. She also said she had seen various 
physiotherapists to help manage symptoms. And that Mrs B had had the problem for 
approximately three years. 
Having considered the above definition as set out in Avivas policy, I am satisfied that 
Aviva has applied the definition fairly due to the length of time Mrs B had the 
problem.
Mrs B says her specialist doesnt agree that her condition meets the definition of 
chronic but as noted above, the letter from the physiotherapist confirms Mrs B has 
been suffering from the condition long term and has had ongoing control or relief of 
symptoms. As her condition has at least one of the characteristics set out above, I 
am satisfied that it does meet the definition. And so it isnt covered.
Mrs B says the decision hasnt been based on medical proof. But the letter from the 
physiotherapist is sufficient medical evidence and I see no reason to discount it. 
Mrs B says Aviva defined what a chronic condition was, at a meeting, as one that has 
received extensive treatment on the NHS. However, the definition which applies to 
Mrs B is the one contained in her policy terms and conditions. I cannot give much 
weight to comments made at a meeting about the definition when the terms provide a 
clear definition. 
Mrs B says evidence supplied from her specialist consultant and updates from her 
physiotherapist were ignored. I havent seen any evidence which contradicts the 
earlier medical evidence which shows that Mrs B has had long term control or relief 
of her symptoms. Even if her condition resolves or gets better, that doesnt 
automatically mean that it didnt meet the definition of chronic at the time Aviva 
withdrew cover. 
Finally, Mrs B says she is unhappy with the physiotherapists that treated her. Aviva 
cannot be held responsible for the quality of treatment received and I note it 
confirmed in its final response letter that Mrs Bs concerns had been passed to the 
physiotherapists directly. If Mrs B hasnt heard from the company responsible, she 
would need to chase this up with them directly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman