DRN-4072389
The complaint
Mr P complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc didnt do a credit check on his car before 
financing it. He later discovered that there was outstanding finance on the vehicle.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr P was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with Santander.
In or around November 2022 Mr P decided to sell the car. He then discovered that as well as 
Santander, there was a second financial interest noted on the car.
Mr P complained to Santander that the vehicle was subject to an existing finance agreement 
when it was supplied to him.
Santander hasnt issued a final response as it says its investigations are ongoing.
Mr O brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said that Santander had provided a copy 
of a history check dated around 2 weeks before the finance agreement was signed and that 
this showed that there was no finance outstanding on the vehicle. The investigator said that 
the other finance company had registered an interest in the vehicle sometime after the 
Santander finance agreement was signed and had likely backdated it. The investigator said 
that the checks completed by Santander were reasonable and showed the vehicle to be free 
of finance, and that she didnt think Santander had done anything wrong when it agreed to 
finance the car in 2019.
Mr P didnt agree. He said that Santander shouldve checked the cars history on the day he 
purchased the car and signed the finance agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the cars history report. Santander completed a history check on 23 May 2019, 
around 2 weeks before Mr P purchased the car. The check shows that there was no 
outstanding finance registered against the vehicle at that time.
Mr P obtained a car history report on 14 November 2022. This shows two registered 
interests in the car, one in favour of Santander and one in favour of another finance provider. 
The other provider registered a finance marker in relation to a finance agreement dated 18 
June 2018.
Looking at the two reports, Im satisfied that the other providers interest wasnt registered at 
the time when Santander completed its history check. It follows that the other provider 
mustve registered its interest sometime after 23 May 2019 and backdated it to 18 June 
2018. I cant tell from the reports the exact date when the other finance provider registered 
its interest.
Mr P has said that Santander shouldve completed a check on the day he purchased the 
vehicle. Hes said that if Santander had done this, it wouldve discovered the interest of the 
other finance provider. Based on what Ive seen, I think it was reasonable for Santander to 
carry out its checks when it did. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that the other 
finance providers interest wouldve been discoverable on the date that Mr P purchased the 
vehicle. In other words, I dont think the situation wouldve been any different if Santander 
had completed its checks on 7 June 2019.
Ive thought about whether Santander has treated Mr P fairly here. As Ive already said, Im 
satisfied that Santander completed reasonable checks. In terms of what Santander has done 
to try and resolve things, I can see that Santander has contacted the other finance provider 
several times to try and get to the bottom of whats happened here. It appears that the other 
finance providers position is that it has an interest in the vehicle which wasnt properly 
registered when it shouldve been. And when the other finance provider discovered the error, 
it took steps to register its interest.
Based on what Ive seen, it seems that the previous owner of Mr Ps vehicle failed to settle 
their finance with the other finance provider. I appreciate that this leaves Mr P in a very 
difficult position, because hes unable to sell the car and remain liable for the shortfall on a 
balance which I understand he is struggling to pay due to a change in his financial 
circumstances.
I have sympathy for Mr P. That said, Im unable to say that Santander has made an error or 
done anything wrong here. The checks carried out by Santander showed the vehicle to be 
free from finance. I cant see what more Santander couldve done in the circumstances.
Im aware that Santander is continuing to try and resolve things with the other finance 
provide and that it has taken advise from its legal department. I think its reasonable for 
Santander to do this. I appreciate that Mr P will be disappointed but Im unable to uphold the 
complaint and I wont be asking Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman