DRN-1880919
The complaint
Mr G complains that Revolut Ltd has refused to refund two disputed cash 
machine withdrawals made from his account. He says he did not make or authorise the 
withdrawals and wants Revolut to refund the money.
What happened
Mr G was travelling to Sweden. He stopped and stayed overnight in Germany. He checked 
into a hostel late in the evening of 30 April 2019. Mr G said that he left the hostel and went 
out for a couple of hours to have dinner. And when he returned, he logged into his banking 
app and noticed two pending transactions  which he didnt recognise. Two cash machine 
withdrawals were made in the early hours of 1 May 2019 totalling 1,250 euros plus exchange 
and cash machine fees. Mr G had the payment card in his possession. He immediately 
blocked the card and contacted Revolut via its online chat facility.
Revolut told Mr G that as the transactions were pending it couldnt do anything. It asked him 
to contact it again when the transactions were debited - after which it could assist him with 
recovery.
For ease, Ive set out a timeline of the disputed cash machine withdrawals alongside any 
other activity that I think is relevant to the outcome of this complaint:
Date Time (local time) Event 
30 April 2019 11.23pm Mr G paid 30.68 euros for hostel stay
30 April 2019 Approx. 11.30pm Mr G left his card and wallet in his luggage; in the hall 
and went to park the car 
1 May 2019 Approx. 12am Mr G returned from parking the car, picked his 
luggage up and went to his room
1 May 2019 12.11 am Cash machine withdrawal 1,000 euros plus fees
1 May 2019 12.12am Cash machine withdrawal 250 euros plus fees
1 May 2019 1.52am Mr G notices disputed transactions and blocks card 
on mobile app
1 May 2019 1.54am Mr G contacts Revolut by online chat
4 May 2019  Transactions debit account and Mr G submits fraud 
claim form. Card terminated and new card ordered5 May 2019  Revolut inform Mr G his claim has been rejected - 
unable to refund or raise chargeback
9 May 2019  Mr G contacts Revolut again requesting a refund  
Revolut reiterate decision made and advise to contact 
police 
10 May 2019  
15 May 2019 Mr G continues to challenge Revoluts decision to 
reject his claim 
12 June 2019  Mr G raises formal complaint 
24 June 2019  Revolut issues its final response
 
On 4 May 2019 the transactions were no longer pending and had debited Mr Gs account. 
He made contact with Revolut and submitted a fraud declaration form. The following day 
Revolut rejected Mr Gs fraud claim for the following reasons;
the card was in Mr Gs possession;
both withdrawals were made using the genuine card and corresponding PIN; and
based on the information provided by Mr G on his fraud declaration form, there didnt 
appear to be a point of compromise for his card and PIN.
 
Mr G was extremely disappointed with Revoluts decision to decline his fraud claim and with 
the service hed received. He complained to Revoult - who didnt uphold his complaint.
Unhappy with the outcome Mr G referred his complaint to our service. It was passed to an 
investigator who thought the complaint should be upheld. Our investigator wasnt persuaded 
Mr G made or consented to the cash machine withdrawals. He also felt Revolut couldve 
done more when Mr G first made contact about the disputed transactions. To put things right 
he recommended Revolut refund the disputed transactions (inclusive of fees and charges), 
pay 8% interest on the disputed amount until the date of settlement and pay a compensatory 
award of £100 to Mr G for the poor service he received.
Revoult did not agree with the investigators outcome and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
I did that but reached a different conclusion from that reached by the investigator. In my 
provisional decision I explained why I thought Revolut was entitled to hold Mr G liable for the 
disputed transactions and that I was satisfied with how it had handled Mr G's fraud claim. I 
said; 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to a different conclusion to our investigator and I intend not to uphold 
this complaint.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr G. But Id like to take some time to explain how 
Ive reached my intended decision. Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill 
concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need 
to comment on it to reach what I think is the right outcome.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that set out the relevant regulations and evidence. 
Both Mr G and Revolut have read the investigators view, so I wont repeat every detail here.
Generally, Revolut can hold Mr G liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence suggests 
that it's more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself.
From what Ive seen I dont think its unreasonable for Revolut to conclude that Mr G 
authorised the transactions. I say this because having carefully considered all the evidence, 
on balance, I think it is more than likely that Mr G either made the withdrawals himself or 
consented to them being made. I say that for the following reasons:
Firstly, Im satisfied from the banks evidence that both cash machine withdrawals 
were made using Mr Gs genuine card and his PIN.
I appreciate Revolut have argued that there are many inconsistencies between the 
version of events Mr G gave to Revolut and has given to this service. I dont 
disagree, but I do think some of this can be explained as English is not Mr Gs first 
language and he may have understood what was being asked of him differently to 
how it was intended by Revolut. I also accept that due to the passage of time, Mr Gs 
memory may have faded and of course, he may no longer clearly remember events 
which happened six months ago.
I also agree with the investigator that I dont believe the point of PIN compromise was 
the PIN Mr G had written down in reverse in his wallet. I say this because Revoluts 
technical evidence shows no incorrect PIN attempts. I think its reasonable to think if 
an unknown third-party had obtained Mr Gs wallet - with the card and the written 
down PIN, they wouldve first tried it as it was written. I think its unlikely they 
wouldve guessed it was written in reverse correctly first time.
So, the other potential point of compromise for Mr Gs PIN was when he paid for his 
hostel stay at 11.23pm on 30 April 2019. After which Mr G has said he went to park 
his car, leaving his luggage which contained his wallet in the hostel hall. He was 
gone for around 30 minutes. So, its possible that someone couldve watched Mr G 
entering his PIN, taken his card without him noticing or from his luggage when he 
went to park his car and used it very quickly at a nearby cash machine. That can 
happen. But as Mr G was still in possession of his card when he reported the 
disputed transactions, it means that, having seen Mr Gs PIN and taken his card and 
used it successfully to withdraw cash, a thief then wouldve had to return to the 
hostel, by which point looking at the timeline of events Mr G was most likely in his 
room, wouldve needed to establish which room he was staying in, gained entry to his 
room and placed the card back into his luggage without him or anyone else noticing. 
In my view, thats most unlikely; a thief might have abandoned the card or kept it with 
a view to making further withdrawals or payments later  but I doubt they would 
return to the place where they took it. 
Mr G has said that he was sharing a room with others and Ive thought about whether 
its possible that someone he was sharing a room with had taken the card, carried 
out the withdrawals and returned it to avoid detection. Whilst this is a possibility  it 
still doesnt explain how an unknown person was either able to guess the PIN 
correctly first time or have known that the PIN kept with the card was written 
backwards. So, Im not persuaded this is what happened.
Whilst Mr G didnt mention this from the outset, he later claimed to have left his wallet 
containing his Revolut card, in his luggage, in his hostel room, when he went out for 
a couple of hours. He said he kept his Italian bank card in a separate wallet  which 
he had with him. But then Mr G has also told us the reason he opened an account 
with Revolut was to use the card abroad as it had lower charges compared to his Italian bank card  so Im not sure why Mr G took a wallet containing a card he didnt 
want to use whilst abroad rather than the wallet containing the card he did use when 
travelling. So, Im not persuaded by Mr Gs testimony.
And more so, as Mr Gs Revolut card didnt have a withdrawal limit, yet his account 
wasnt completely drained  a balance of over 600 euros remained. Typically, Id 
expect a thief to make the most of having access to a card and this usually means 
maximising their gain  but this didnt happen here. Whilst this alone is not 
conclusive, I cant ignore that no balance enquiries were carried out before or after 
the withdrawals. This would suggest the person making the withdrawal wouldve 
already been aware that there was a substantial balance on the account  which Im 
not persuaded an unknown third-party wouldve known.
I appreciate Mr Gs strength of feeling that examination of CCTV wouldve identified it 
wasnt him who made the withdrawals and Revoluts failure to advise him to contact 
the police when he first contacted it has meant an opportunity has been missed to 
confirm the withdrawals were not made by him. Firstly, I accept and take onboard Mr 
Gs reasons for not contacting the police immediately. But ultimately if Mr G believed 
hed been the victim of a crime, it was for him to report the matter not to wait till 
Revolut told him to do so. However for the purposes of this complaint even if CCTV 
footage was available and it did show that someone other than Mr G had made the 
withdrawal - looking at the evidence in this particular case, I dont think I could go 
onto confidently say Mr G didnt authorise someone else to withdraw the funds  so 
under the relevant rules he would still be liable.
 
Taking everything into account, I find, on balance, that Mr G either made or consented to the 
cash machine withdrawals. It follows that Revolut are entitled to hold him liable for them.
customer service
From looking at the online messages sent by Revolut I dont agree that its customer service 
was poor. When Mr G first contacted Revoult on 1 May 2019 requesting that it cancels the 
pending transactions  the information given to him was correct. A bank is unable to cancel 
pending transactions as these have been promised to be paid to the merchant. Nor is it able 
to raise a chargeback  till the transactions have been claimed and have debited the 
account.
I can see that Revolut did consider the chargeback option  once the transactions had 
debited the account. It sent Mr G the relevant forms to complete on 4 May 2019  which he 
returned the same day. By the following day Revolut completed its investigation and decided 
to reject Mr Gs fraud claim. It didnt agree with him that the cash machine withdrawals were 
fraudulent, but it explained why; Mr G was still in possession of his card, there was no point 
of compromise for the PIN, both cash machine withdrawals were made using the genuine 
card and PIN. So, based on the information Mr G had provided and the technical evidence 
available to Revoult, I dont think it was unreasonable for Revolut to conclude that Mr G had 
authorised the disputed transactions.
Under these circumstances it also seemed unlikely a chargeback wouldve succeeded. 
I should explain here that a chargeback isnt an automatic right or a legal entitlement. Its 
an agreement between card providers and card schemes and has its own rules. I consider 
it more likely than not an attempt at a chargeback would have failed. So, I can only 
conclude Revolut actions havent been unfair or unreasonable.  
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to take into account. Revolut responded to say it accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr G responded with some additional comments hed like to be taken into consideration.  
He wanted to clarify that whilst his Revolut card was to avoid exchange fees  this 
was for travel to non-euro countries. The currency in Germany at the time was euro, 
so neither his Revolut or Italian bank card attracted an exchange charge  so he 
utilised both whilst in Germany.  
Mr G explains he didnt immediately contact the police as his Revolut card was in his 
wallet when he returned to his room, and he assumed the pending transactions were 
possibly an online error or a charge the hostel applied. 
He feels Revolut shouldve given him detailed information on the transactions when 
he first contacted it  had it done so, he wouldve known hed been the victim of a 
crime. He also wasn't happy that Revolut couldn't provide the exact address of the 
cash machine. 
Mr G says assuming that the withdrawals were made by him or consented to by him, 
why would he make two withdrawals a minute apart and not just one. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but I havent 
been persuaded to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
I think its important to say, the key issue here was for me to decide whether Revoluts 
decision to hold Mr G liable for the disputed transactions was fair and reasonable. Ive 
reflected on and considered in detail everything Mr G has said in response to my provisional 
decision. Having done so, I still think, on balance, its more likely than not that Mr G either 
made the withdrawals himself or consented to them being made. 
I understand that Mr G feels Revolut couldve done more. In my view, there was no duty on 
Revolut to do more than what it had done or to investigate matters to the level suggested by 
Mr G. Further, as I indicated in my provisional decision, I think its most unlikely that the 
overall outcome for Mr G wouldve been significantly different even if it had. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr G's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman