DRN-2138570
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy HSBC Bank UK Plc (HSBC) hasnt reimbursed him for his losses after he 
transferred money to an investment company that turned out to be a scam.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties so I wont go into too much detail 
here. Mr R has explained he has been the victim of a scam and was tricked into sending the 
following payments to someone he believed to be an investment company:
21 May 2019 £21,000
21 May 2019 £20,000
21 May 2019 £9,000
Mr R made the payments online and feels HSBC should have done more to question him 
about the payments. In particular, he thinks it shouldve uncovered that payments were 
being made to an account that wasnt held in the name of the investment company hed 
thought he was dealing with. He feels this wouldve exposed the scam and prevented him 
from making the payments he did. He also felt HSBC shouldve done more to try and recall 
the funds when he reported the scam to it. 
HSBC didnt agree it should have done more in this case so Mr R asked our service to look 
into things. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They felt that:
Mr R was given warnings by HSBC and chose to continue with the payments anyway
Any checks HSBC wouldve carried out itself at the time wouldve suggested the 
investment company was a genuine, regulated firm
They agreed HSBC hadnt recalled funds as quickly as it should have, but as the 
receiving bank didnt cooperative when the request was made, they didnt think this 
delay had impacted the situation or prevented retrieval of the funds
As Mr R didnt accept their findings the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Should HSBC have done more to prevent the transfers Mr R made?
Theres no dispute the transfers Mr R made were authorised payments even though he was 
the victim of a sophisticated scam. He made the payments himself and under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, and so Mr R is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. As such I think 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to 
counter various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among 
other things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated 
fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar 
with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have 
taken additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a 
payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help 
protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Mr R attempted to transfer £20,000  the second of his three payments  to the scammers 
on 20 May 2019. HSBC recognised this transaction as unusual, blocked the payment and 
requested he contact it to verify it. But I think this shouldve happened in the case of each 
transfer he made that day. Whilst there are some high value transactions on his account, 
these are significantly higher. It also seems significantly unusual for someone to make three 
high value transfers to the same account in one day.
Mr R called HSBC the same day he was contacted to discuss the transfer. Ive listened to 
the call and I can hear Mr R did verify the payment as genuine and was given some general 
warnings about making sure any payment details given over email are verified by another 
means. He was also asked if hed been coerced into making the payments.
But because Mr R told HSBC the transfer was an investment, there are some additional 
questions about the investment itself I wouldve reasonably expected it to ask. Such as if he 
was cold-called, how he came across the company and what returns hed been promised to 
see if any of the answers mirrored what the bank ought to have known about the way 
investment scams tend to be perpetrated. 
I think there is also information HSBC ought reasonably to have given Mr R during this call, if 
not before. For example, I think it ought to have warned Mr R that fraudsters can and do try 
and pass themselves off as existing regulated investment companies. I also think it ought to 
have drawn his attention to the FCA website, specifically the information on avoiding 
fraudulent investment scams including its fraud warning list. 
But, Im not persuaded, on balance, that providing generic information about the fact these 
type of scams exist or that, even when making specific enquiries with Mr R, HSBC likely 
wouldve been given reasonable cause for concern. 
Mr R has said the investment company was recommended to him by a trusted family 
member whod already made a number of investments. He tells us he carried out his own 
checks which, given everything Ive seen, mightve included checking the FCA register. 
Which suggests to me some understanding of the importance of dealing with a genuine, reputable firm. And the FCA didnt add any warnings to its website about the genuine 
investment firm having been cloned until after Mr R made his last transfer. 
Mr R has also told us that in addition to his father speaking with the scammers for several 
weeks, he also spoke to them directly over the phone and via email about the investments 
he was told he was making. As well as the assurance from a trusted family member, Mr R 
had been given persuasive literature and contracts relating to the investments he thought he 
was making and the rate of return wasnt so unrealistic that I think it wouldve given HSBC 
reasonable doubt about its authenticity. So, overall, its clear he was persuaded the 
transactions were genuine and I think it wouldve taken more than the bank making the type 
of enquiries Ive highlighted above to persuade him not to continue or alert him to the scam.
Ive also thought about whether anything else at this point ought to have alerted HSBC to the 
scam, but Im not persuaded it shouldve. As Ive mentioned, the FCA wasnt aware of the 
fact the original investment company had been cloned and didnt place a warning on the 
register until after Mr R made his last transfer. So when HSBC shouldve enquired about the 
activity on Mr Rs account, there was no other information or additional checks HSBC 
couldve carried out at that time that wouldve given it reasonable cause to believe Mr R was 
the victim of a scam. 
Ive considered whether I think it wouldve been reasonable grounds for concern that Mr R 
was making transfers to an overseas bank account or that the account was in a different 
name to the company he thought he was dealing with. But I think Mr R had a plausible 
explanation for sending the money overseas and there are legitimate reasons a customer 
might do this. So I dont think this alone wouldve been enough to alert HSBC to a scam in 
this particular case. And overall, its not unusual for scammers to coach victims into giving 
cover stories for the payments theyre making. I think its more likely than not that if the 
bank had prompted Mr R to ask about the bank account being in a different company name 
or probed more about the payment being made to overseas account I think the scammers 
wouldve provided a plausible and persuasive explanation for this.
From what Ive seen, the FCA doesnt appear to have published any information regarding 
the firm the payment was made to (which was different to the trading name of the investment 
company Mr R thought he was paying). And whilst there now warnings published by the 
relevant overseas regulator this also doesnt appear to have been published until after his 
last transfer.
Having considered everything very carefully I dont think its more likely than not that even 
had HSBC done more to warn him generally about investment scams and questioned him 
further about his investment in particular the scam wouldve been prevented.
Did delays caused by HSBC prevent recovery of the funds?
Mr R told HSBC hed been a victim of fraud on 26 June 2019. Once it had discovered this I 
wouldve expected it to act immediately in trying to recover the funds from the beneficiarys 
bank account. HSBC didnt do this and requests were made several days after the fraud was 
reported. But, despite what Mr R says I dont think this delay prevented the successful return 
of the funds.
HSBC contacted the receiving bank regarding each transfer on 1 and 2 July 2019 confirming 
they were the result of a scam and requesting their return. In each case Ive seen they 
chased the receiving bank several times for a response. The receiving bank responded 
around 10 days after the initial requests to say the beneficiary had refused to authorise a 
return of the funds. It didnt give any further information about this and declined to provide 
any further information about the accounts, including whether or not the money had been moved. Theres nothing more I wouldve expected HSBC to have done to try and retrieve the 
funds
I havent seen anything to suggest this answer from the beneficiarys bank wouldve been 
different had the requests been made sooner. So I dont think the delays caused by HSBC 
prevented the successful return of the funds. Mr R has disputed this as the receiving bank 
was emailing him separately, telling him requests for the return of funds hadnt been sent by 
HSBC and indicating it was willing to cooperate. But Ive seen the messages it was giving 
HSBC directly, and this wasnt the case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman