DRN-2405221
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the amount he was charged by Premier Insurance Consultants 
Limited trading as Nova Insurance after he cancelled his commercial motor insurance policy 
because of the coronavirus pandemic.
What happened
Mr S purchased a policy through a price comparison site administered by Nova Insurance to 
insure his van. Mr S borrowed the money to pay the premium form a finance provider linked 
to Nova Insurance, paying a deposit and setting up a direct debit to pay the remaining 
premium to each month.
The finance provider wasnt able to take the first monthly direct debit payment from Mr Ss 
bank. Mr S called a few days later and made the payment via Nova Insurance. And they 
agreed  on behalf of the finance provider - to waive the £30 late payment fee. But the 
finance provider wasnt able to take the second direct debit payment either. It contacted Mr S 
and he that said due to the coronavirus pandemic hed not been able to work. And - as a 
result - couldnt afford to pay back what hed borrowed to pay the premium. Mr S agreed to 
cancel the policy.
After the policy was cancelled, Nova Insurance said that Mr S owed it money. It said Mr S 
owed it £275.99 and explained this was made up of the charge made by the insurer for the 
time he was on cover, its own cancellation fee, an administration fee it had charged, the 
commission the insurer had taken back from it after the policy was cancelled and the interest 
on the credit agreement charged by the finance provider that it had cleared when it was 
cancelled at the same time as the policy.
Mr S wasnt happy with this and complained to Nova Insurance. It looked into his complaint 
and said because of the coronavirus pandemic and the impact this had on Mr S, it wouldnt 
charge him either the administration fee or the cancellation fee. So, Nova Insurance reduced 
the outstanding balance to £165.99.
Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. He said he wasnt happy with the 
amount he was being asked to pay back and couldnt afford any of the repayment plans 
Nova Insurance had suggested. He also wasnt happy with the letters Nova Insurance had 
sent him demanding payment.
Our investigator recommended Mr Ss complaint be upheld. He said The Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) had published guidance to firms in the insurance industry about what to do 
when their customers were experiencing temporary financial difficulties due to the 
coronavirus pandemic. And he thought although this guidance was published after Mr S 
cancelled his policy, he thought it showed how Nova Insurance should have treated Mr S at 
the time his policy was cancelled, in accordance with its responsibility to treat its customers 
fairly. This meant he thought it was fair that Nova Insurance cover its own costs, but he 
didnt think it was fair for Nova Insurance profit from Mr S needing to cancel the policy due to 
not being able to afford it. Because of this he thought  as well as waiving the cancellation 
and administration fee - Nova Insurance shouldnt get back its commission from Mr S. As a 
result, he thought the balance due should be reduced to £22.56. And he thought Nova 
Insurance should waive this as compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr S had 
experienced as a result of being chased for a much larger amount.
Mr S agreed with the investigators view, but Nova Insurance didnt. It has said the 
commission it had clawed back wasnt just profit. And it felt that Mr S would have owed less 
money if hed have cancelled the policy sooner, which hed had the option to do.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The coronavirus pandemic has affected both customers and businesses. Its not been an 
easy time for anyone. And to help, the FCA issued guidance for firms within the insurance 
industry - including brokers and intermediaries - to follow during the pandemic. This 
guidance was all about customers experiencing temporary financial difficulties due to the 
coronavirus pandemic. I appreciate the guidance was published after Mr S cancelled his 
policy, but I agree with our investigator that it represents the approach Nova Insurance 
should have taken with Mr S in order to treat him fairly. 
In view of this, I think it was right for Nova Insurance to waive its cancellation and 
administration fees. The guidance also says that insurance firms should also waive any 
other associated fees when adjusting policies to financial difficulties caused by the 
coronavirus pandemic. And I think Nova Insurance should have done this in order to treat 
Mr S fairly. A substantial part of the balance Nova Insurance say is outstanding is 
commission taken back by the insurer, which it has then effectively taken from Mr S instead. 
Nova Insurance clearly explained in its terms of business that it had been paid commission. 
And that it may make Mr S pay this amount if the policy is cancelled early and the insurer 
takes it back from it. The amount concerned of 15% of the premium is also clear. So in 
normal circumstances Id probably agree it would be fair for Nova Insurance to make Mr S 
pay this. But Mr Ss policy was not cancelled in normal circumstances.
Commission can be all profit, but sometimes it is used to cover expenses the broker may 
have had when selling the policy. Nova Insurance has charged Mr S £263.43 for the taken 
back commission and has said that the commission taken back by the insurer would have 
covered a number of operational costs as well as paying for various searches it needed to 
complete. Its said part of this commission also went to cover the charge the price 
comparison site charged it too.
We asked for a breakdown of these costs, but other than the price comparison site fee, Nova 
Insurance hasnt been able to evidence them. That said, I thinks its likely that it did incur 
costs to set up the policy and cancel it, including the price comparison site fee. And bearing 
in mind Nova Insurance has waived its cancellation fee, I agree with our investigator that it 
should be able to charge Mr S something to cover it costs. And although it is difficult to know 
exactly what these were without further evidence, I agree  based on what I do know  that 
£120 is reasonable. And so instead of charging £263.43 for the commission the insurer took 
back, I think Nova Insurance was entitled to charge Mr S £120.
I understand Nova Insurance has said that had Mr S cancelled the policy earlier, hed have 
had less to pay and because of this it doesnt think its fair it not be able to charge for the all 
of the commission it had taken back by the insurer. And I do have some sympathy for Nova 
Insurance here, but the insurer has charged Mr S separately for the time he was on cover 
and this has nothing to do with whether what Nova charged him as his insurance broker was fair or not. 
Ive also noted that Nova Insurance paid the finance provider the interest Mr S owed on his 
finance agreement, so I think it is reasonable for it to claim this back from him, as he would 
have had to pay this to the finance provider if Nova hadnt paid it off. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied that following it leads to a fair and 
reasonable outcome in this case. This means I think Mr S should only be charged for the 
time he was on cover, the interest due under on the credit agreement which Nova Insurance 
paid off and £120 by Nova Insurance to cover its costs. This means the breakdown of what 
is outstanding is as follows: 
Time on cover charged by the insurer - £553.23
Interest on credit agreement passed on by credit provider - £74.17
Nova Insurances reasonable costs - £120
This totals £749.40. To date Mr S has paid Nova Insurance £726.84 through his deposit and 
credit agreement, which leaves an outstanding balance of £22.56.
Had Mr S been left with an outstanding balance of £22.56, I think its likely hed have paid it 
off. But instead he chased for a balance that was higher than he expected. And I think has 
caused him distress and inconvenience. Therefore, as compensation for this, I think Nova 
Insurance should waive the remaining balance.
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint. To put things right, I require 
Premier Insurance Consultants Limited trading as Nova Insurance to:
Reduce the outstanding balance due to it to £22.56; and
waive this amount as compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman