DRN-3521114
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Close Brothers Limited reported incorrect information on her credit file.
What happened
In 2017 Mrs S was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with CB. Prior 
to the end of the agreement Mrs S contacted CB and said she wanted to hand the car back. 
CB arranged for this but recorded missed paymenst on Mrs Ss credit file. Mrs S complained 
and CB said it would amend the credit file. But it took several months to do this during which 
time Mrs S says she was affected by the adverse information. Mrs S seeks compensation.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said that CB had acknowledged that it had made an 
error by reporting missed payments. I looked at the impact of the adverse information on Mrs 
S and said that whilst I agreed that her credit score had likely been impacted , I couldnt 
safely conclude, based on the information provided by Mrs S,  that Mrs S had been turned 
down for further finance and/or a mortgage solely as a result of the information reported by 
CB. I said it was fair to ask CB to pay further compensation of £200 to Mrs S to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience caused to her by the error.
I invited both parties to let me have any further information or arguments they wished to 
raise.
Mrs S responded and said that as a result of the adverse information reported by CB on her 
credit file she hadnt been able to get another car finance agreement and had had to rent 
another vehicle which had cost her £500. She said her credit file had been damaged for 
several months because CB were slow to amend it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the further comments from Mrs S. Having done so, I havent changed 
my mind. I appreciate that Mrs S has been caused distress and inconvenience as a  result of 
CBs error, but as I said before, there isnt enough evidence for me to safely conclude that 
the sole reason for Mrs S being turned down for car finance was the information reported by 
CB. So, I wont be awarding any further compensation to cover Mrs Ss transport costs.
Putting things right
To put things right Close Brothers Limited must pay further compensation of £200 to Mrs S 
for the distress and inconvenience caused to her by its error.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Close Brothers Limited must take the steps 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman