DRN-2424072
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a regular 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2002 Mr and Mrs S took out a PPI policy with a secured loan. The policy covered Mr S 
only for accident, sickness and unemployment and would have provided a monthly benefit of 
about £161 for up to five years if he was too ill to work. It cost £15.09 a month.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case.
If any of the information is incomplete or contradictory, as some of it is here, Ive reached my 
decision by taking into account all the evidence I do have and what I think most likely 
happened given the information available and the wider circumstances.
Mr and Mrs S said they werent given all the information they needed before buying the PPI, 
and if they been they wouldnt have bought it because it wasnt cost effective. They say they 
didnt realise the PPI was optional and think it was mis-sold to them.
I cant know for certain what was discussed between Mr and Mrs S and Halifax when they 
were discussing the loan and PPI. So Ive looked carefully at the paperwork the bank sent in, 
to see if it reflects Mr and Mrs Ss recollections. Ive seen both a copy of the sort of loan 
application form in use at the time and the actual credit agreement they signed.
I cant see any reason why Halifax would have treated Mr and Mrs S any differently to other 
customers, so I think it most likely they completed an application form like the one Halifax 
sent us.
The application has a section about PPI, and two boxes  one to say yes to the PPI and 
the other no. Mr S would have had to sign the yes box to say he wanted the PPI. I think it 
very unlikely PPI would have been shown on his loan agreement if he hadnt done that. 
Theres nothing on either this form or the loan agreement that suggests the PPI is 
compulsory.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs S bought the PPI knowing they didnt have to.
Halifax acknowledges it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. So it had to make sure it 
was suitable for them. 
Im satisfied the policy was suitable given Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances, because:
- Mr S was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions. Mrs S was self-employed, which might have made it more difficult for her to 
claim for redundancy. That means the PPI might not have been suitable for her. It looks 
to me as though some level of discussion took place before the PPI was set up, and that 
it reflected Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances.
- Mr S says he would have received some work-related benefits if he couldnt work due to 
illness or accident. But the policy would have paid out in addition to the occupational 
benefits and would do so, it seems, for much longer in some circumstances. Having the 
policy in place would mean Mr and Mrs S could use any work-related benefits to pay for 
other expenses. I think Mr and Mrs S would have had some use for the policy despite 
their existing arrangements.
- Mr S wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. 
As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs 
S needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
- I dont know exactly when Mr and Mrs S were first told the cost of the policy. But it was 
shown on their loan agreement, which they both signed. Ive seen nothing to suggest it 
was unaffordable or the benefit insufficient to meet their total monthly loan repayments.
Its possible that some of the information the bank gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it should have been. But, on balance, I think they chose to take out the policy and 
so appear to have wanted this type of cover. As Ive already said Mr S wasnt affected by 
any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable, I think it 
unlikely Mr and Mrs S would have made a different decision if better information had been 
provided  overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman