DRN-4425203
The complaint
Mrs Ms representative, her son and (joint) Power of Attorney (POA) Mr M complains on her 
behalf about Baker Jenness Financial Management, referred to as BJFM or the business.
In summary, he says that she was given unsuitable investment advice by BJFM. Hes 
unhappy that her care home fees increased at a different time to the plan escalation date, 
and she was left with a shortfall in the monthly cost until the annuity increase on its 
anniversary amounting to a total of £3,242, which needed to be paid from other sources. 
So, to put things right shed like a refund of the premiums paid. 
What happened
In a meeting with an BJFM dated 19 September 2022, Mr M completed the necessary 
documentation including a confidential fact find in which it was recorded that his main 
financial objective at the time was to obtain a secure income to ensure that Mrs Ms long-
term care costs were met as he was concerned that her funds would soon be depleted by 
cost of care.  
BJFM says that Mr M wanted to ensure a guaranteed income to pay for the costs that wasnt 
reliant on investment performance. And wasnt concerned about any residual funds for any 
inheritance purpose as he/they considered the funds were solely for Mrs Ms benefit. 
BJFM didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said that the Immediate Needs Care 
Annuity (INCA) was suitable for her. This was primarily because the recommendation 
matched her needs, and the business isnt responsible for when the care home increases its 
costs. In any case, the reserve was there to cover such issues, should they occur. 
BJFM also confirmed that Mr M favoured some kind of indexation to the benefits to offset 
future increase in costs. It also said the adviser recommended that Mr M discuss with the 
care home to establish the likely amount of escalation that would be required, after which an 
escalation amount of 8% a year was decided upon. Mr M made no mention that any future 
costs would be increased by the care home on any particular date. 
A policy was recommended with a third-party provider, which was sufficient to meet the 
shortfall in costs at the time of advice and would escalate at 8% a year on the policy 
anniversary to account for future increase in costs, and the benefit would be directly paid to 
the care home. 
 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he made the following key points:
He understands that Mr M is concerned that the escalation feature of the long-term 
care plan he purchased to cover the cost of Mrs Ms care home, only becomes 
effective on the anniversary of the plan. Although the care home has increased its 
charges before the anniversary  which is why theres a shortfall in the costs  its not 
something he can blame the business for. 
Although Mr M says that the escalation policy/feature was purchased to cover for 
every eventuality for any increase in care home fees, hes not persuaded that this 
was the basis upon which the plan was sold. 
Having reviewed the point-of-sale documents he found nothing to persuade him that 
BJFM misled him about how the escalation feature worked. He also found no 
evidence that Mr M was told that the escalation would take effect whenever the care 
home fees increased. 
The policy schedule made clear the following:
oThe policy started in September 2022, with a monthly annuity of £4,377 and 
the rate was 8%. 
oThe escalation month was Policy Anniversary. 
In a letter dated 11 September 2022, under the heading Escalation, the adviser 
confirmed the following:
oWe have discussed the option of indexing the benefit so that it increases at 
each policy anniversary. I have recommended that your mothers annuity 
includes indexation of something that might broadly represent inflation. Whilst 
inflationary pressures are currently higher than this, we have obtained quotes 
which included 8% escalation per annum as including this option will help the 
income from the annuity to combat the likely annual increase in care home 
costs. You felt that this was a realistic figure based on your discussions with 
the care home and their pattern of fee increases recently.
The report also warned about the following:
oCare fees may increase. If this is the case, then a new gap between care 
fees and income will occur which is what happened.
The adviser also recommended a cash contingency fund so that: 
oshould fees increase or Mrs Ms income reduce, or indeed any other 
contingency occurs, then there would be some cash available to help meet 
any additional costs which occur as a result. This doesnt suggest that cash 
was recommended as an alternative. 
Despite what Mr M says, its important to understand that any increase in the care 
home charges and the date it occurs is something that BJFM has no control over. 
BJFMs role is to recommend a plan thats suitable based on the information 
provided, and thats what it did. 
If it wasnt what Mr M wanted, it was his responsibility to either raise the issue with 
the adviser or cancel the policy within the cooling off period. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said:
BJFM was instructed by them as experts in the field with a proven record. It was 
tasked to find a suitable policy for Mrs M as a layperson, to ensure that she was 
protected for the rest of her life. 
Theyve no issue with the policy itself, theyre satisfied it was the best policy. 
However, it wasnt explained to them that the percentage escalation portion of the 
policy wasnt matched with the care home increase in fees, so it doesnt cover the 
whole annual increase in care home fees.   
The contingency fund was only recommended in case they didnt take out the care 
fund policy. 
The business shouldve known that care homes increase fees every financial year in 
April. The policy started six months after the April fee increase, but this was never 
raised with them. 
The text highlighted by the investigator was exactly the reason why they wanted the 
policy in the first place and is the reason why theyd agreed with the care home that 
any fees will be fixed to a maximum of 8% to match the escalation element that they took out. 
BJFM was made aware of this but didnt mention the escalation policy wouldnt 
match the care home annual increase date.
Perhaps BJFM wanted to increase their commission by including the escalation 
element to the policy. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr M says, I cant safely say that 
BJFM behaved unreasonably in this instance, because the care home fee increase  when it 
occurred and by how much it occurred  didnt match with the escalation policy anniversary.   
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Ms (and Mrs Ms) strength of feeling about this matter. Mr M has 
provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered 
carefully. However, I hope he/they wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to 
be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. In 
other words, I dont have to comment upon every single point made. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr M and BJFM, and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. Despite what Mr M says, I dont 
need any further evidence to make my decision. 
 
I dont uphold this complaint, in brief, for the following reasons:
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that Mrs M was provided 
with key policy documentation that made clear the nature and operation of the policy, 
including emphasising the risk that care fees may increase and a gap between the 
costs and income may occur. Furthermore, that the escalation month was the policy 
anniversary. 
Although the recommendation was designed to avoid this shortfall where possible, I 
dont think this was an absolute guarantee. In any case, the issue regarding the care 
home fee increase, and the anniversary of the policy is a separate issue.  
The adviser can only provide advice based on the information provided. There was 
no information sought or supplied about whether (or not) the policy should be set up 
with a particular date in mind, in this case to align with the policy increase. 
oThe date was evidently an important issue for Mr M  who was liaising with 
the care home  so I dont know why this wasnt raised by him with BJFM as 
an important consideration for how this policy should be set up. 
In any case, the fee increase  date and amount  is down to the care home and 
outside of the control and influence of BJFM. In other words, the business has nothing to do with it. And although Mr M says the increase usually take place once a 
year in April (at beginning of the financial year), the care home is ultimately at liberty 
to decide when this increase happens.      
I agree with BJFM that it has no control or influence over when a care home may or 
may not increase its costs or by how much. On the face of the evidence, and on 
balance, the business could only recommend a policy suitable to meet the 
requirements at the point of sale, with a suitable level of escalation to meet future 
increases which I believe it has done. Based on what he says, I dont think Mr M 
seeks to disagree with this specific point.  
I note it was made clear that it would be 8% (as agreed by the parties) on the policy 
anniversary. I note in relation to the percentage, BJFM said that Mr M felt that this 
was a realistic figure based on his discussions with the care home and its pattern of 
fee increases recently. So, on balance, Im satisfied that Mr M made an informed 
decision in relation to this figure increase. 
I note the adviser recommended that £50,000 was retained on deposit for 
unforeseeable needs and/or emergencies which I believe was suitable. I note it was 
specifically noted:
oThis will ensure that, should the fees increase...then there would be some 
cash to meet any additional costs". 
oContrary to what Mr M says, this doesnt suggest that the contingency was 
recommended as an alternative to taking out the policy in question.   
Im aware that the care home couldnt or wouldnt delay an annual care home fee 
increase, despite Mr M advocating for it, but thats not something I can blame BJFM 
for. As I mentioned above, it wasnt a party to any discussions with the care home 
that were being led by Mr M. Its not clear if the care home made clear to Mr M when 
it was likely to increase its fees and why he didnt pass this information on if it did. 
Even if I was to consider BJFM as an expert in the field, I cant say that it ought 
reasonably to have known how individual care homes would operate and when 
theyd increase their fees and by how much. Even if it has been working with these 
sorts of policies for a long time, I think this is outside of its purview. 
I dont think the business has done anything wrong by not, of its own volition, aligning 
the policy, to the care home fee increase at the start of each financial year. Thats not 
what it was specifically asked to do. And it not doing so doesnt make the 
recommendation is unsuitable. 
If Mr M was unclear as to how the policy would work in practice, he ought to have 
sought clarification. But despite what he says, it appears he may have assumed it 
would operate in a particular way, but if that was the case, thats not something I can 
blame the business for. 
If the start date was crucial to Mr M, he ought reasonably to have made this clear to 
BJFM when seeking advice, especially as the policy started six months after the 
annual increase. It was reasonable to assume thats how the policy would operate 
going forward and Mr M had no issue with that.  
Despite what Mr M says about BJFMs motivation for recommending this policy, I 
cant say that its motivation for recommending the policy was purely to make 
additional commission.  
I appreciate that Mr M on behalf of Mrs M will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what he/they 
want to hear. Whilst I appreciate their frustration, I cant safely say that BJFM is responsible 
for refunding the premiums.   
In other words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, I cant give him/them 
what he/they want. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman