DRN-3410345
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited will not refund the money he lost after falling 
victim to an online scam. 
What happened
Mr W came across the latest gaming consoles advertised for sale on Instagram. The profile 
presented itself as a clothing store offering luxury goods. Mr W says the profile regularly 
posted stories showing items ready to be dispatched by courier. He explains he followed the 
account for a few weeks and saw positive posts from other users. Unfortunately, Mr W was 
interacting with a fraudster who tricked him into paying £800 for two consoles by bank 
transfer. 
At 18:45 on 20 April 2021, Mr W made the payment to the personal account details hed 
been given by the fraudster. He explains the payee name matched which gave him 
confidence the purchase would be safe. After Mr W sent the money, the fraudster said it 
hadnt arrived and asked Mr W to pay again. Mr W didnt have any more money to send and 
asked for the fraudster to check the funds had been received. Mr W told the bank that it 
rang alarm bells when he was asked to pay again. The fraudster did not respond to Mr W 
and blocked him. 
Mr W contacted Starling for help ten minutes after hed sent the payment. Starling tried to 
recover the money from the receiving bank but was not successful. It then considered 
whether it was responsible for refunding Mr Ws loss. Starling is a signatory of the Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) and considered its 
obligations under it. Starling turned down Mr Ws claim. It said he had not taken reasonable 
steps to check that the payment was genuine. 
Mr W was unhappy with the banks decision and raised a complaint. He thought the banks 
position was unfair because there were lots of reviews showing that people had received 
products that were posted live. Starling maintained that Mr W did not undertake enough due 
diligence before making the payment. 
Mr W asked us to review the banks position. One of our Investigators looked into the 
complaint but did not recommend that it should be upheld. He didnt think Starling should 
have intervened to stop the payment from being made, or that the bank should have 
refunded Mr Ws loss under the CRM Code. He thought Mr W should have taken a more 
cautious approach to the purchase and pointed out factors he had overlooked that should 
have raised concerns about the legitimacy of the deal. 
Mr W asked for the complaint to be reviewed again. He felt hed done his checks and that he 
didnt do anything out of the ordinary when placing the order.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where a 
customer makes a payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though the payment 
was authorised.  
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Starling should have reimbursed Mr W under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it 
ought to have done more to protect him from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Theres no dispute here that Mr W has been the victim of a scam and was tricked into 
making the payment. He thought he would receive two games consoles in exchange for his 
money and the seller did not keep to their side of that bargain. But this isnt enough, in and 
of itself, for Mr W to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. The Code places a 
level of care on Mr W too.
The CRM Code 
The CRM Code requires signatory firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims 
of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. I think Starling can choose not to reimburse Mr W under the terms of the 
CRM code because it has been able to establish that he failed to meet his requisite level of 
care under one of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Having considered everything that both sides have said, I am persuaded that Mr W made 
the payment without having a reasonable basis for believing that it was for genuine goods 
and that the person/business he transacted with was legitimate. I agree Mr W should have 
done more than he did to question the deal and to satisfy himself that it was valid before 
going ahead.
Price can be one indicator that there is potentially something untoward about a proposed 
deal. The seller was offering each console at £50 less than the recommended retail price. 
Whilst I can appreciate that this isnt a substantial discount, and Im mindful that people can 
and do find good deals online, I also think it is important to consider that there has been an 
ongoing stock shortage with this particular console. Mr W said hed been trying for a long 
time to get hold of it. 
I think Mr W should have questioned in his own mind why a seller with a profile name that 
appears to be linked to designer clothing would have a supply of hard to obtain games 
consoles. I also think Mr W should have considered why a seller would be willing to let these 
consoles go at a discount given they were changing hands for more than the recommended 
retail price on auction websites and technology exchange stores. I consider the ease at 
which the seller was able to supply a scarce item combined with the lower price was out of 
keeping with the wider market and too good to be true. I think Mr W should have made 
further enquiries to satisfy himself that there was nothing untoward about the situation. Mr W explains that he did check the Instagram profile and its clear that he placed a lot of 
weight on the images posted by the profile as being proof that they really had the items to 
sell. But Im not persuaded Mr W took enough care with the purchase to be able to say that 
he had a reasonable basis for believing that he was buying genuine goods from a legitimate 
seller. He placed his trust in this seller, but the deal was highly questionable. He hadnt 
purchased anything from this specific seller before and didnt undertake any verification 
checks into who was running the account or whether it as a legitimate business before 
parting with his money. There were concerning factors about the deal, such as making 
payment to a personal account rather than a business account, the discounted price and 
swift supply and the sellers profile being primarily linked to clothing which ought reasonably 
to have raised concerns, but Mr W didnt question things at the time. He only discovered 
after he made the payment that the profile had potentially been scamming victims since 
February 2021. 
I consider that Mr W should have weighed it all up and recognised there was considerable 
risk involved with the purchase, such as the possibility that he wouldnt receive the consoles 
or that they might not be authentic. I think its more likely than not that Mr W took a chance 
by going ahead with the purchase in the circumstances that he did. But by doing so, he fell 
below the level of care expected of him under the CRM Code.
Should Starling have done more to try and prevent the scam and protect Mr W?
Ive thought about whether Starling did enough to protect Mr W. Mr W was making an 
unremarkable payment of £800. I dont think it stood out enough for the bank to have been 
concerned that he might have been at risk of financial harm from fraud at the time he made 
it. Once it was made aware of the scam, Starling acted quickly to try to recover the funds 
that had been sent, but none remained. Taking everything into account, I think Starlings 
actions in this particular case were appropriate and proportionate to a payment of £800.
Overall 
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr W and I can understand why he wants to do all 
that he can to try and recover the money hes lost. He sent his money in good faith and did 
not receive anything in return for it. But I cant fairly hold Starling responsible for the actions 
of a fraudster. I can only look at the banks position on Mr Ws fraud claim and its 
assessment under the CRM Code. For the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied Starling 
has been able to establish it can choose not to refund Mr W under the CRM Code. Im also 
satisfied the bank processed Mr Ws payment correctly and it did all it could to help him once 
it knew what had happened. This means I cant fairly say Starling should have done more or 
that it should refund the money that has been lost.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman