DRN-3036510
The complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him an interest only
mortgage. He says he recalls booking an appointment to receive mortgage advice, but that 
the mortgage was sold to him on a non-advised basis.
What happened
In 2006, Mr C took out an interest only mortgage with Nationwide for around £125,000 over 
a 25-year term. 
He raised a complaint in 2019 that the mortgage was mis-sold. He says that he wasnt 
provided with enough information to make an informed decision before agreeing to the 
mortgage and that alternative mortgages such as repayment, were not discussed. Mr C also 
complained that Nationwide didnt assess his ability to repay the capital at the end of the 
term.
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint. It said that Mr C took the mortgage on a non-
advised basis (meaning that the mortgage was agreed without a recommendation from an 
adviser) and that he must have met the criteria at the time. 
Mr C referred the matter to this service. I issued a decision setting out why this service can 
consider the complaint, despite the time that has passed since the mortgage was sold.  
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr C 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules and requirement of a lender when arranging a mortgage, whether on an advised or 
non- advised basis have changed significantly in recent years. They are now stricter and 
more rigorous than in 2006, when Mr C took out his mortgage.
But there were still requirements for lenders and rules that needed to be followed. Ive 
considered Mr Cs complaint, keeping in mind the relevant rules and regulations that applied 
at the time. 
Its not in dispute  considering Mr Cs recollections and the contemporaneous evidence - 
that no advice was provided and that this mortgage was taken out on a non-advised basis. 
But Mr C has said that he did ask for advice and booked an appointment to discuss his 
options with an adviser before taking the mortgage out. He says Nationwide failed in its duty 
of care when it didnt provide any. 
Due to the time thats passed since the mortgage was taken out, there is limited information 
and I cant know for certain what happened around this time or what was discussed. But Ive 
carefully considered the paperwork available.
From the application form, I can see its recorded that an interest only mortgage was chosen 
and that a repayment plan was in place to cover the balance at the end of the term. 
Considering the rules that applied at the time, I cant say that this would have prompted 
Nationwide to require Mr C to take any detailed advice. 
Nationwide sent Mr C a mortgage offer which set out the type of mortgage applied for 
showing that it was on an interest only basis, the length of the term, and that the amount 
borrowed would need to be repaid at the end of the mortgage. This offer was made following 
conversations between Mr C and Nationwide.
I can understand Mr Cs point that he should have received advice as this was what he 
recalls booking the appointment for. But I also consider that if Mr C didnt understand any of 
the information or thought that this wasnt the correct product for him, he could have 
challenged this at the time or asked for other options  and again requested an advised 
service. 
I cant say for certain why Mr C didnt receive the advice he requested, but from what Ive 
seen, Im not persuaded that Nationwide acted unfairly by providing the mortgage to him on 
a non-advised basis. 
Mr Cs also said that he mentioned an interest only mortgage to Nationwide at the time as he 
thought that this might be the cheapest option, and that he was nave. I think its likely that 
this was the cheapest option at the time as  unlike a repayment mortgage  only interest on 
the balance is charged each month rather than payments being made to both the capital and 
the interest on the mortgage. 
And an interest only mortgage  especially in 2006  was not generally considered an 
unsuitable product as long as there was a plan to repay the capital at the end of the term. 
Ive seen from the application form that the intended repayment vehicle was recorded as an 
existing pension plan. The rules at the time didnt require Nationwide to do any rigorous 
checks around this. And so I dont consider that Nationwide acted unfairly when it didnt 
further assess Mr Cs ability to repay the mortgage at the end of the term. 
Overall, Nationwide needed to provide Mr C with enough information - that was clear, fair 
and not-misleading - so he could make an informed choice. From the information Ive seen, 
Im satisfied Nationwide met this requirement with the literature it provided. 
I can understand that Mr C feels let down, especially due to the difficulties hes experienced 
with his health over the last few years. But Im afraid Ive not seen anything to suggest that 
Nationwide were made aware of this at the time - and so I dont think it failed when it didnt 
provide additional help to Mr C or require that he received advice prior to taking the 
mortgage out. 
I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mr C, but having considered 
everything, Im unable to fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman