DRN-1421838
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with how The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU) handled a claim for legal expenses on her home and lifestyle insurance policy. 
NFU use DAS Legal Expenses insurance Company Limited to administer legal expenses 
claims on its behalf  so Ill be referring to DAS throughout the decision. 
Despite that Mrs B has often been represented by Mr B throughout the complaint, Ive only 
referred to Mrs B, as shes the policyholder. 
What happened
Mrs B had a claim against her former accountant for negligence, as their conduct had led to 
a claim being made against her by the Inland Revenue for around £30,000. This was being 
handled by her solicitors, W. 
In February 2019, Mrs B contacted DAS to cover the legal expenses involved. To help DAS 
assess the claim, W provided a Claims Management Report in March 2019. They rated the 
prospects of success as over 51% but noted uncertainty over the prospects of recovery  it 
noted that it had told Mrs B about the need to take steps to see if the defendant could pay. 
Still, given the size of the remedy, they thought there was good prospects of recovery. DAS 
queried the report, given that their stated costs in bringing this claim were disproportionate to 
the value of it. W explained why these were difficult to quantify and that what had been 
presented was the worst-case scenario. 
In April and May 2019, DAS and W negotiated their terms for working together, which was 
finalised in June.  
On 10 June 2019, DAS again raised Ws costs and how these were disproportionate to the 
value of the claim  W confirmed these were accurate. So it contacted Mrs B to advise that 
the most it would cover was the value of the claim and discussed the difference in rates 
between W and using one of DAS panel solicitors. Mrs B, concerned about the shortfall, 
was willing to switch, but wanted to discuss this with W first. She later confirmed that she 
was happy to appoint a panel solicitor, L. 
W wrote to DAS and Mrs B confirming that, as agreed, they would wait to hear from L to 
transfer the file. Around a week later L wrote to Mrs B to ask for the information and to 
contact W to send the file. At the same time, both Mrs B and W contacted DAS for updates. 
Mrs B also raised concerns about a letter received from L which said their costs are higher 
that Ws costs. 
In July 2019, L advised there wasnt reasonable prospects of recovery against the 
defendant. They said there was no evidence they held assets or had professional indemnity 
insurance  and other sources had been unwilling to come forward with evidence that may 
suggest otherwise. 
Mrs B raised a complaint about what happened. In summary:  She felt forced to go with L, who she believed were acting for DAS, rather than 
herself.
When she received the instruction, she noted their costs were almost the same as W. 
And when she contacted DAS about this, no-one got back to her. 
Ls opinion was then used to withdraw cover (despite Mrs Bs belief in the other 
sides solvency), and Mrs B now cant pursue it as its out of time. 
To put things right, she wants NFU to settle the tax bill. 
 
NFU replied: 
It maintained it was correct to advise Mrs B about the proportionality of the costs. 
It apologised that it didnt sort out sooner the problems transferring the case from W 
to L, and that it didnt call to answer Mrs Bs query about Ls costs. It explained these 
were just a technical error. It offered £150 for what went wrong. 
It noted Ls assessment there was insufficient prospects of recovery. It explained how 
to complain about them. 
 
Still unhappy, Mrs B brought her concerns to us. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. He thought that cover was withdrawn in line with the policys terms and 
conditions, and that £150 was a fair way to put right DAS handling of the claim. Mrs B 
disagreed. In summary: 
She felt DAS lied to remove W from the case  she thought they did this because W 
concluded that the prospects of success were over 51%. 
She questioned why DAS agreed Ws rates in the first place. 
She only agreed to change solicitors because DAS told her Ls costs were lower, but 
she later found out that wasnt the case.
 
The case has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The change in solicitors from W to L
Mrs B thinks DAS lied to remove W from the case. Ive reviewed the emails and records of 
calls between DAS and W from the time. Its clear DAS had concerns as early as March 
2019 about whether Ws costs were proportionate to the value of the claim. But it continued 
to progress the matter, given Ws explanation about the uncertainty of these, and that they 
were the worst-case scenario. I think that was a fair approach to take, given the ambiguity. 
In June 2019, when it raised these concerns again, W said the costs were accurate. So it 
contacted Mrs B to explain that it would only cover Ws costs up to the value of the claim, 
and shed be responsible for any shortfall. 
Ive reviewed the terms of Mrs Bs policy. These state: 
WE will pay a REPRESENTATIVE, on the INSURED PERSONS behalf, COSTS AND 
EXPENSES incurred following an insured incident, provided that  where an award of 
damages is the only legal remedy to a dispute and the cost of pursuing legal action is likely to be more than any award of damages, the most WE will pay in COSTS AND 
EXPENSES is the value of the likely award.
So I think DAS were correct in what they told Mrs B. And I think it was prudent to warn her  
even if it was a worst-case scenario, she couldve faced significant bill.  
To reduce costs, DAS suggested one of their panel solicitors, who were cheaper. Mrs B now 
disputes this, as she received a letter that suggested the costs were around the same. But L 
confirmed the letter was wrong, as it didnt reflect how DAS has a pre-existing arrangement 
with them over costs. So I dont think DAS lied to her about how L could help reduce costs. 
Mrs B says she felt forced to go with L  and I can imagine why she felt that way. But I dont 
think that was because DAS misled her. Rather, I think it reflected the situation she was in. 
She either took a risk with her preferred choice, that might leave her with a significant bill  
or, she went with the cheaper option, who wasnt her original choice. I dont think that was 
DASs fault  but a consequence of the claims circumstances and the cover she had. 
Mrs B says these costs were the worst-case scenario and, therefore, unlikely. But I can see 
she discussed the matter with W before making the decision  so I think its fair to say she 
wouldve known that at the time and considered it in giving her agreement to move solicitors. 
It follows that I dont think DAS lied to Mrs B or forced her to change solicitors. And I think it 
approached the situation reasonably and in line with its policy terms. 
How cover was withdrawn 
Mrs B is unhappy that cover was withdrawn when L concluded that there werent reasonable 
prospects of recovery. Ive considered the terms of Mrs Bs policy on this point: 
WE agree to provide the insurance described in this POLICY, in return for payment of 
the premium and subject to the terms, conditions, exclusions and limitations set out in 
this POLICY, provided that  REASONABLE PROSPECTS exist for the duration of 
the claim...
[definition of] REASONABLE PROSPECTS
For civil cases, the prospects that the INSURED PERSON will recover losses or 
damages (or obtain any other legal remedy that DAS have agreed to, including an 
enforcement of judgment), make a successful defence or make a successful appeal or 
defence of an appeal, must be at least 51%. DAS, or a PREFERRED LAW FIRM on 
their behalf, will assess what the prospects of success are.
So its clear this is a requirement for cover to continue. And I think thats reasonable  after 
all, most people would want there to be a remedy after the time, costs and energy involved 
with making a claim.   
Ive gone on to consider Ls assessment on the prospects of recovery. Theyve explained 
how they came to their conclusion, and I dont see anything obviously unreasonable in what 
they said  it seems there was no evidence to say the defendant had assets or insurance 
and no-one would come forward to confirm otherwise. Either way, its not for me to rule on 
the quality of the solicitors opinion. Should Mrs B have concerns, thats something she can 
see if she can pursue elsewhere i.e. the Legal Ombudsman Service. I also note that DAS 
explained to Mrs B when it withdrew cover that if she got Counsels advice that viewed the 
situation differently, it would pay for that and reinstate cover. Mrs B has suggested that cover was withdrawn as a result of the claim being moved to L. 
But having reasonable prospects of recovery was a continuous requirement of her claim, so I 
think it was reasonable for L to assess this. Its worth noting that even if W continued with 
the claim, they mightve come to the same conclusion. After all, when they originally 
completed the Claims Management Report, which said there was good prospects of 
recovery, it was before theyd made enquiries into the defendants assets. W said theyd 
made this clear to Mrs B. 
So, in all, I dont think DAS acted unfairly in withdrawing cover.  
DAS overall handling of the claim 
NFU apologised that the transfer of the case between solicitors wasnt as smooth as it 
shouldve been and that it didnt clarify sooner about the costs. It offered £150  which I think 
is a fair reflection of what went wrong. 
I know Mrs B finds this an insulting amount  but I think the driving force of her frustration 
and distress is how she moved solicitors and cover was ultimately withdrawn. And for the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont think DAS, and therefore, NFU, did anything wrong here. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman