DRN-3060468
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained that Zurich Assurance Ltd has avoided their life and critical 
illness insurance policy and refused their claim for a critical illness as a result of it.   
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took out a life and critical illness insurance policy with Zurich through an 
Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) in 2012. The IFA completed the application with them 
and submitted it to Zurich electronically. Mr and Mrs D were sent a copy of the application 
showing the answers theyd given to check. There was a form with it for them to sign and 
return to Zurich to confirm the information in the application was correct or to correct any 
information that was wrong. They didnt return this form and have since said they didnt 
actually review the information provided to them. 
Mr and Mrs D made a claim after Mr D was badly injured in an accident at work and suffered 
several strokes. Zurich said Mr D answered the question in the application about whether he 
smoked incorrectly. It considered this to be a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation, which 
entitled it to avoid (treat it as if it never existed) Mr and Mrs Ds policy and refuse their claim.  
Mr and Mrs D complained to Zurich, as they were sure Mr D had answered the question 
about whether he was a smoker correctly. Zurich rejected their complaint and Mr and Mrs D 
complained to us about Zurichs decision.
One of our investigators recommended Mr and Mrs Ds complaint be upheld. He said that he 
thought Mr and Mrs D were responsible for the incorrect answer to the question on whether 
Mr D was a smoker. But he thought this was a careless misrepresentation and that Zurich 
should settle their claim proportionately. 
Zurich didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It still 
thought Mr and Mrs Ds misrepresentation should be classed as deliberate or reckless. 
However, following an email exchange with me, it has now agreed to treat the 
misrepresentation as careless. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Marine Insurance Act 1906. This required Mr and Mrs D 
to act with utmost good faith when applying for the policy and tell Zurich about anything that 
would be material to it. If they didnt provide the correct information then, provided Zurich 
would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the correct information had 
been provided, Zurich would be entitled to avoid their policy. And Mr and Mrs D would be 
responsible for any failure on their IFAs part to provide the correct information. 
However, the approach Zurich should have adopted is actually governed by the 2019 ABI 
Code of Practice Managing Claims For Individual and Group Life, Critical Illness and Income 
Protection Insurance Products. This sets out what I consider to be good industry practice at 
the time Mr and Mrs D made their claim. And because of this I think Zurich should have 
followed it to make its decision on Mr and Mrs Ds policy and claim. 
The Code says that if an insurer can show a consumer or consumers answered a question 
or questions when applying for a policy incorrectly, this can be classed as a 
misrepresentation. And the insurer must then consider what it would have done if the 
question had been answered correctly and decide what to do in light of this. The Code 
requires the insurer to decide whether the misrepresentation was careless or deliberate or 
reckless. And it says if the insurer would have charged a higher premium if the correct 
information had been provided it should only avoid the policy if the consumers 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. If it was careless then the Code says they 
should settle their claim proportionately. The Code makes it clear the onus is on the insurer 
to show the consumers misrepresentation is reckless or deliberate and that this category 
should be reserved for a limited number of cases. 
Theres no dispute that the wrong answer was provided to Zurich, as their application said 
Mr D was a non-smoker and he has said he was a smoker in 2012. And its clear Zurich 
would have charged Mr and Mrs D a higher premium if Mr D had said he was a smoker. And 
I think it was careless of Mr and Mrs D not to check the application details sent to them, as 
there was a clear warning in the covering letter that they needed to do this and the 
consequences of not doing so. 
I appreciate Zurichs concern about the fact that Mr and Mrs D appear to have answered a 
straightforward question on Mr Ds lifestyle incorrectly. And I accept the Code does say 
incorrect answers to these sort of questions are more likely to be considered a reckless or 
deliberate misrepresentation. However, I dont think Zurich should have classed                 
Mr and Mrs Ds misrepresentation as reckless or deliberate. This is because the ABI Code 
says the following about reckless or deliberate misrepresentation at 7.3.2: 
This category does not apply where: 
The degree of relevance associated with the misrepresentation is relatively low and, in cases 
where a premium rating would have applied, the underlying risk premium rating resulting 
from that misrepresentation would not have been more than +50% (or £1/mil) for the 
applicable life assured. 
Ive checked the monthly premium Zurich would have charged if Mr D had answered the 
question about smoking correctly. This would have been £80.68, as opposed to the actual 
monthly premium of £63.23. This means the rating resulting from the misrepresentation of 
Mr Ds status as a non-smoker would not have been more than +50% for him. And I think 
this means that according to the Code his misrepresentation should be classed as careless 
and not reckless or deliberate. And I am pleased to say that Zurich now accepts this. 
This means that Mr and Mrs Ds claim should be dealt with on a proportionate basis, which 
Zurich also accepts. The 2019 Code is silent on the proportionate remedy for claims on 
policies taken out before The Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 
2013 (CIDRA). But I think the fair and reasonable approach is for Zurich to apply the same 
proportionate remedy as would be the case if the policy was taken out post CIDRA. I say this 
because it represents our approach pre CIDRA and the Law Commission took account of 
our approach in its consultation prior to the Act becoming law. Therefore, I think the 
approach for proportionate settlements to claims set out in it is the correct balance in terms 
of fairness and can easily be applied to pre CIDRA policies to achieve the same impact. I do of course appreciate Mr and Mrs D dont think it was entirely their fault the information 
provided to Zurich on Mr D not being a smoker was wrong. But, if this was due in part to a 
mistake by their IFA, they are responsible for this. And  while I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ds 
reason for not checking the information about their application provided to them in 2012, 
they should have done this and spotted the error in the answer to the question about 
whether Mr D had smoked in the previous 12 months and corrected it.  
Putting things right
Mr and Mrs D have paid 77.13% of the premium they should have done. This means I think 
Zurich should reinstate Mr and Mrs Ds policy and deal with their claim in accordance with its 
terms and conditions. And if it pays the claim, it should pay 77.13% of the sum insured at the 
date of the claim.
Zurich has already refunded the premium of £5,287.33 Mr and Mrs D had paid for the policy 
at the point it was avoided. This can be deducted from the amount payable in settlement of 
the claim. I also think Zurich should pay interest on the amount it pays (after the deduction of 
the premium refund), at the rate we normally use of 8% per annum simple, from the date Mr 
and Mrs Ds policy was avoided to the date they receive the payment. This is because I think 
if their claim is paid it is fair to say this should have happened at the point the policy was 
avoided. And Mr and Mrs D have been without these funds since this point and the interest 
will compensate them for this. Zurich has accepted it should add interest on this basis. 
If  for some reason  Zurich dont pay Mr and Mrs Ds claim, it should still reinstate the 
policy if Mr and Mrs D want them to do this. But this will be subject to them paying back the 
premium refund. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I require Zurich Assurance Ltd to reinstate Mr and Mrs Ds 
policy and deal with their claim in accordance with the policy terms and conditions. If Zurich 
pays the claim it must pay 77.13% of the sum insured under the policy at the time the claim 
was made. Zurich may deduct any premium refunded from the amount due on the claim. 
Zurich must also pay interest on the amount it pays at 8% per annum simple from the date 
Mr and Mrs Ds policy was avoided to the date of payment.1
If  for some reason  Zurich dont pay Mr and Mrs Ds claim, it should still reinstate the 
policy if Mr and Mrs D want them to do this. But this will be subject to them paying back the 
premium refund. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman
1 Zurich Assurance Ltd must tell Mr and Mrs D if it has made a deduction for income tax. And, if it has, 
how much its taken off. It must also provide an appropriate tax deduction certificate for Mr and Mrs D 
if asked to do so. This will allow them to reclaim the tax from  Her Majestys Revenue & Customs 
(HMRC) if appropriate.