DRN-3774922
The complaint
Mr C and Ms Z complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) put their personal data at 
risk and caused them significant distress and worry as a result. 
What happened
Mr C and Ms Z made a prior complaint to Barclays in June 2022 (which is not the subject of 
this complaint) as they had not received any communication prior to an automatically 
generated letter from Barclays in May 2022 which left in brackets rather than inputting the 
date it allegedly sent an acknowledgement letter. Mr C and Ms Z found this letter to be 
shocking and do not believe that Barclays actually sent the acknowledgement letter, hence 
the system leaving the brackets in place and not inserting a date. 
In its final response letter in July 2022, Barclays apologised for its error, explained that 
feedback had been provided and credited Mr C and Ms Zs account with £100 in 
compensation. However, it also included a letter for a different consumer, unrelated to Mr C 
and Ms Z or the complaint itself. The letter disclosed the consumers full name, address and 
that they were a customer of Barclays. 
Mr C and Ms Z raised another complaint (the subject of this case). They explained that 
Barclays actions meant they had real concerns about whether their own personal data had 
been breached. Theyve said they find it inconceivable that human errors can occur on 
such a frequent basis if the right controls and procedures are in place. 
In its final response letter of August 2022, Barclays apologised for the error. Explained it had 
provided feedback to the member of staff responsible for the error, said it understood how 
worrying and upsetting the incident must have been for Mr C and Ms Z and credited their 
account with £50. 
Unhappy with the level of compensation provided by Barclays, Mr C and Ms Z referred their 
complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but did not think it should be upheld. She 
recognised that Barclays actions had caused Mr C and Ms Z to worry if their own personal 
data had been breached in a similar way to the unrelated consumer. However, she noted 
that at this stage, there is no evidence that Mr C and Ms Zs data had been breached so she 
did not think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Barclays to compensate Mr C and Ms Z for 
something that might have happened. 
Mr C and Ms Z disagreed with our investigators assessment. Expanding on why they think 
further compensation is due, Mr C and Ms Z explained that they consider Barclays to have 
been reckless and its systems and processes result in too many human errors. Mr C says he 
lost several nights sleep worrying about how the bank may have mishandled his personal 
information and that he will never know if this has happened. 
As the complaint could not be resolved informally, it has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I am required by 
DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook to take into account: 
(1) relevant: 
(a) law and regulations; 
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
(c) codes of practice; and 
(2) (where appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
I also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable outcome.
So, although I have read everything that has been supplied to me, I may not address every
point that has been raised.
Having done all that, I have concluded that Barclays does not need to do anything further to 
resolve the complaint. I recognise that this will come as a disappointment to Mr C and Ms Z 
and that they feel very strongly that Barclays needs to do more. But I hope my explanation 
helps them to understand why Ive reached the conclusion that I have. 
It is accepted by both parties that Barclays made a mistake when it sent Mr C and Ms Z a 
letter intended for another consumer. And I do not doubt that this led to Mr C and Ms Z 
questioning whether their own personal data was safe, had been breached or could be 
breached in the future. 
Barclays has already taken steps to put things right for Mr C and Ms Z. It has provided 
feedback to the staff member responsible for the error, it has apologised, and it has credited 
Mr C and Ms Zs account with £50 to recognise the worry its error has caused. These are the 
steps I would expect a business to take in a scenario such as this. 
Im also mindful of the fact that while Barclays made a mistake, it doesnt mean 
Mr C and Ms Z are guaranteed to have their personal data breached  and more importantly, 
I do not have the power to make findings on hypothetical scenarios or concerns.
If Barclays or Mr C and Ms Z were able to evidence that Mr C and Ms Zs own data had 
been breached, I would expect Barclays to take further steps to put things right. But as 
neither party has any evidence to show that this is the case, it would not be appropriate for 
me to make an award against Barclays. 
 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr C and Ms Z were hoping for. However, I must base my 
decision on the evidence thats been provided, and this service does not make awards to 
punish businesses or compensate for hypothetical losses that may not come to fruition. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint and I make no award against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Lucy Wilson
Ombudsman