DRN-1600906
 
The complaint
Mrs H says she was mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by Bank 
of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax. 
What happened
In 2001, Halifax sold Mrs H a monthly premium PPI policy to protect her mortgage 
repayments if she was unable to work because of disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mrs H disagreed, so the case was 
passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
There are gaps in the information thats still available from 2001, which isnt surprising given 
how long ago that was. So, for example, it isnt clear how the PPI was sold or whether 
Halifax recommended it to her. 
I note Mrs Hs main argument is that she didnt know the PPI had been added. 
Unfortunately, I dont have a copy of, for example, a signed PPI application form. But 
Halifaxs internal records from the time indicate it asked  and Mrs H answered  questions 
to determine her eligibility for the policy. So, it looks as though she was at least aware of it. 
And Ive nothing to show she wasnt told it was optional. 
Mrs H has sent us copies of some of her bank statements from 2004 to show she didnt 
make any payments for PPI from the account and so wouldnt have known about the cover. 
Ive looked at the copies and I cant see any trace of PPI on them. That said, Im satisfied the 
monthly premium was likely being paid from somewhere or else the cover wouldnt have 
continued for several years as it did.
Mrs H says the premiums wouldnt have been taken from any other account. I appreciate 
what she says, and I recognise I cant say on balance where the premiums were collected 
from. But, looking at Mrs Hs argument from another perspective, if shes right and no 
premiums were collected whatsoever then she hasnt suffered any financial loss.  
Taking all of that into account, I dont uphold the complaint on this basis.
Halifax has considered the complaint as though it recommended the PPI to Mrs H. That 
favours Mrs H as, among other things, that would have meant Halifax needed to take steps to ensure its advice was right for her. Regardless of what steps it took, I think any 
recommendation to take the PPI was right for her in any case. 
For example, from what Mrs H has told us about her circumstances, it seems she was 
eligible for the cover. And I cant see that she was affected by any of the main things the 
policy excluded or limited cover for.
I gather Mrs H was entitled to enhanced sick pay from her employer for a time and 
redundancy pay. But the PPI benefits were considerable and potentially paid out (on top of 
any existing work benefits) for up to 24 months for each successful claim. She says she 
could have relied on her friends and family if she ran into financial difficulty but, unlike the 
PPI benefits, that help wasnt guaranteed. 
Considering Mrs H had just entered into a long-term financial commitment that was secured 
against her home, I think it likely shed have valued the extra protection the PPI provided. 
Further, Ive no reason to think the PPI premium wasnt affordable for Mrs H. And the policy 
was flexible in that Mrs H could have cancelled it at any time at no extra cost if she felt it was 
no longer suitable for her.
Halifax also needed to give Mrs H enough information about the PPI to allow her to decide 
for herself if it was right for her. I think its possible that the information it gave her could have 
been better than it was. But, for the same reasons that I dont think the PPI was unsuitable 
for her, I dont think that better information would have changed her decision to take it. I think 
shed still have thought it provided useful benefits at an affordable cost.
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Mrs H has lost out because of how Halifax 
sold the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman