DRN-4182051
The complaint
Ms S has complained Advanced Payment Solutions Limited, trading as Cashplus Bank, 
wont refund transactions she didnt authorise.
What happened
In 2022 Ms S noticed debits to her Cashplus account from a specific merchant (who Ill call 
J). She complained to both J and Cashplus.
J confirmed theyd closed her subscription and refunded her £90.45. Cashplus wouldnt 
refund any further money as their evidence suggested Ms S had authorised the first payment 
and signed up to a recurring transaction arrangement.
Ms S brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence and what services J offered. She felt this showed 
Ms S must have signed up to a subscription agreement so wouldnt ask Cashplus to do 
anything further.
Distressed at this outcome, Ms S didnt understand how she couldnt be refunded for 
transactions she hadnt permitted. Shes asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Ms Ss complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but 
nothing else specific in Ms Ss case.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, what 
services J offers, as well as what Cashplus and Ms S have told us. 
Overall I believe the evidence shows Ms S authorised the disputed transactions. I say this 
because:
J offers a subscription service. The payments made from Ms Ss Cashplus account 
follow the type of payments, for a subscription service which initially charges €2, Id 
expect to see by anyone signing up to this service.
Websites which offer subscription services and allow them to take recurring 
transactions are required to ensure customers are aware theyre signing up to regular 
payments. All the evidence Ive seen suggests this is what happened here.
Cashpluss evidence shows Ms S properly authenticated and consented to the €2 
payment.
When Ms S confirmed she allowed a payment for €2 to be made, I think it would 
have been clear to her at the time that she was also signing up to other payments for 
which she would receive services. I find it odd Ms S couldnt confirm what she 
thought she was buying for €2. Its worth adding Im not making any judgement about 
whether Js services are good value for money as thats not the point Im considering 
here.
J confirmed Ms S held a subscription with them which they then cancelled and 
refunded some transactions.
Taking all this into account, Im not going to ask Cashplus to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Ms Ss complaint against Advanced 
Payment Solutions Limited, trading as Cashplus Bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman