DRN-3809041
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Barclays Bank UK plc recorded a default about her account with credit 
reference agencies without contacting her before doing so.
What happened
Mrs R had a joint current account with Barclays. She opened the account as a sole account 
in 1997 and her former partner was added to the account in 2000. There was an arranged 
overdraft facility on the account of £90. Mrs R says she had no knowledge of this account 
and hadnt received any correspondence about it from Barclays.
Mrs R says that during her marriage her former partner took control of all her finances. This 
continued until she moved home in March 2017. She says that after she got divorced she 
discovered her former partner had opened several accounts in her name and she was left to 
pay off significant debts. She applied (to X) for a debt consolidation mortgage to help her 
manage these debts. Her application was approved in principle in April 2020 but after she 
progressed it to a full application, in July 2020, it was declined. The lender told her this was 
because she had failed the credit score. 
Mrs R says she checked her credit report and discovered that Barclays had registered a 
default on 21 May 2020. She made immediate arrangements to satisfy the debt but Barclays 
refused to remove the default from her credit file. Mrs R says she hadnt received any 
correspondence or statements about this account. She complained to Barclays.
Barclays investigated her complaint. It said that the last transaction on the joint account was 
made on 4 July 2019 and the account had been overdrawn by almost £90 at that stage. 
Since then fees and charges had accumulated. Barclays said that, in line with its own 
processes, it had sent letters about the account to the address on its records. It had also 
sent a termination notice and a notice of default. None of the letters had been returned. 
Barclays acknowledged it had been notified of a change of address by Mrs Rs former 
partner in 2018. It said it should have checked Mrs Rs address at that time and arranged for 
duplicate statements about the account to be sent to her. But, it said it had sent numerous 
letters about the account prior to 2018 and these were sent to the address where Mrs R had 
been residing with her former partner. So, it said she wouldve known about the account. In 
these circumstances Barclays said its failure to send Mrs R statements about the account 
wouldnt have made any difference to the outcome. It offered to pay her £50 by way of 
compensation for not having sent her statements. Mrs R wasnt satisfied. She referred her 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into her complaint. He thought Barclays had sent the notices it was 
required to send to the address on its records. Even if bank statements had been sent to 
Mrs R  she wouldnt have received these because shed changed address. Mrs R had 
provided details about her new address in relation to her credit card account  but that was a 
separate division of Barclays and it wasnt reasonable to expect Barclays to update the 
address for her current account. He also said Barclays had made numerous attempts to 
contact Mrs R by telephone but hadnt been successful.
Mrs R didnt agree. She said she had other accounts with Barclays including a loan and a 
credit card account. It had her up to date address for those accounts. Its own policy said it 
should have updated her address on all its records. It hadnt done that and as a result she 
wasnt informed about the default. If Barclays had informed her she would have satisfied the 
debt and her application for the debt consolidation loan wouldve been granted. 
Mrs Rs complaint was looked at again by a different investigator at our service. He thought it 
was plausible that Mrs R didnt know about the joint account. It had been opened in 1997 but 
she hadnt used it for many years. Barclays also hadnt reported the account to credit 
reference agencies, prior to recording the default. So, it wouldnt have appeared on Mrs Rs 
credit file. Our investigator thought that if Barclays had sent the notices to Mrs R at her 
correct address, she would have satisfied the debt.
Our investigator said Barclays should remove the default from Mrs Rs credit file. 
He then thought about whether Barclays should have to pay her anything more than the £50 
it had already offered. He thought it should increase this amount to £500 to compensate 
Mrs R for the significant distress and inconvenience shed experienced. But he wasnt 
persuaded, on balance, that the mortgage application had been declined solely because of 
the default that had been recorded. He said that lenders took a number of factors into 
account when deciding whether to grant credit and there was no evidence to fairly suggest 
that the default was the sole reason for the decline.
Mrs R accepted what our investigator said. But, she disagreed with his view about the 
reason why her mortgage application was declined. She was adamant that the application 
would have been successful but for the default. 
Because Mrs R disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Barclays take reasonable steps to inform Mrs R that the joint account was in default?
Mrs R had operated this account for many years before her partner was joined as an 
account holder in 2000. There was a modest overdraft facility on the account but I can see 
that since 2000, the account was rarely used and I think it is plausible that Mrs R had 
probably forgotten that the account was still active. Barclays has pointed to correspondence 
it sent about the account in 2017. It also says it was sending statements to Mrs R, up to the 
date when Mrs Rs partner recorded a change of address. 
Mrs R has provided evidence to our service about the fact that her former partner controlled 
her finances. So, even though statements were being sent in the period prior to 2017, Im not 
persuaded, given what shes told us, that was enough to bring this account to Mrs Rs 
attention. In any case it was only after July 2019 that the account conduct gave Barclays 
cause for concern and it was only after that date when the correspondence Barclays sent 
made that clear. Mrs R didnt receive any of that correspondence because Barclays only 
sent it to the address provided to it by her former partner.
Having considered everything, Ive decided that Barclays should have done more, after July 
2019, to provide notices and letters about the state of the account to Mrs R.Barclays has accepted that when Mrs Rs partner changed the address on the account in 
July 2018, it should have arranged for duplicate statements to be sent to her. If it had done 
that it says it would have updated her customer profile. But, it says that wouldnt have made 
any difference because it didnt have a new address for Mrs R. Having thought about 
everything, Im not persuaded by what Barclays has said. 
Im satisfied that if Barclays had followed its own procedures in July 2018 when 
Mrs Rs former partner contacted it, it would have started to send duplicate statements to 
Mrs R at the address it held for her on its records. Because she had moved away from that 
address - its likely those statements wouldve been returned marked gone away and her 
record wouldve been flagged accordingly. 
When Mrs R provided details of her up to date address in November 2018, after Barclays 
granted her a loan, her new address would have been recorded and she wouldve started to 
receive letters about the joint current account. As Mrs R has pointed out, Barclays own 
privacy policy indicates it should have updated all of its records when she provided it with 
her new address. 
It wasnt until after July 2019 that the account conduct became unsatisfactory and important 
correspondence, including the termination notice, was issued. If Barclays had correctly 
updated its records these documents would also have been issued to Mrs R at the correct 
address. And, Im persuaded, on balance, she would have settled the account before the 
default was registered. I can see that she satisfied the debt in August 2020  as soon as she 
realised the default had been recorded.
In these circumstances, I agree with our investigator when he said that Barclays should 
remove the default from Mrs Rs credit file.
Would Mrs Rs application for a debt consolidation loan have been granted but for the default 
that Barclays recorded?
Mrs R has provided evidence that she received an Approval in principle from X for a debt 
consolidation loan. She received that on 30 April 2020. I havent been provided with a copy 
of the approval in principle but generally such an approval is subject to a number of 
conditions and is not guaranteed.
Mrs R says that her broker then submitted an application for the mortgage in July 2020 and 
received a decline. The response from the lender was as follows:
Based on the information provided the Decision in Principle 
has unfortunately been declined for the following reason(s):
1. The application has not passed the credit score.
this is a credit score fail, an appeal against this decision will only be considered 
following submission of a full application together with a letter from your client clearly 
stating why the decision should be reviewed.
Mrs R has confirmed that her broker made further enquiries but decided not to appeal the 
decision after being told that the underwriter would expect a completely clean credit history 
and an appeal was unlikely to succeed.
Mrs R has also provided details of how her credit score, recorded by one of the credit 
reference agencies, dropped significantly immediately after the default was recorded.Ive considered all of the information provided but having done so, Im not persuaded that 
there is enough evidence to say that the application was declined solely because of the 
default that was registered. Ill explain why.
The response from the lender, set out above, indicates that this was a Decision in Principle. 
That means the lender hadnt considered all of the factors it wouldve been required to take 
into account before making a lending decision  such as affordability, valuation and loan to 
value. 
Different lenders apply different criteria when assessing a customers credit score. So, 
although the default wouldve had an adverse impact on Mrs Rs credit score, there wouldve 
been other factors that the lender took into account (such as overall indebtedness) when 
determining her credit score. And, it is also the case that there wouldve been a number of 
matters (such as those referred to above) which the lender would take into account before 
making a decision about whether to lend. So, Im not satisfied on balance or probabilities, its 
more likely than not Mrs R wouldve got the loan, but for the default.
It is also the case that Mrs R told us she didnt think it was worthwhile making an appeal 
against the decision in principle. That was her choice - and I dont think its fair or reasonable 
to hold Barclays liable for her decision not to seek further explanations from the lender. It 
also means I cant be sure that if she had made an appeal, she wouldve got the loan, but for 
the default. 
So, having considered everything, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude, on the 
basis of the evidence thats been provided, that the application was only declined because of 
the default which Barclays recorded.
 
Distress and Inconvenience
Barclays has offered to pay Mrs R £50 by way of compensation for not sending statements 
to her after 2018. But, I dont think that £50 takes account of the significant distress and 
inconvenience Mrs R has been caused because of Barclays error. As I mentioned above if it 
had updated her profile, its likely she wouldve been made aware that the account was in 
arrears and the default wouldnt have been recorded. Shes had to deal with trying to get the 
default removed from her records - at what was already a difficult time for her. So, I agree 
with our investigator that Barclays should pay Mrs R £500 by way of compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience shes experienced here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK plc.
I now require it to take the following actions:
Remove the default it recorded with credit reference agencies about Mrs Rs account; 
and
Pay Mrs R £500 by way of compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced because of what happened here.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman