DRN-3551967
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc didnt cash a bankers draft he sent to it. 
What happened
Mr M has an account with Santander. In 2020 he sent a bankers draft to transfer funds from 
an international bank to Santander by post. He later queried why the amount hadnt been 
credited to his account. Santander said the bankers draft had not been received. Mr M 
subsequently arranged a swift payment from the international bank into his Santander 
account, but this has never been credited either. Mr M made a complaint to Santander.
Santander didnt uphold the complaint, as it said it hadnt received the bankers draft through 
the post. It also said no swift payment had been received and the sending bank would need 
to trace this, as its not possible to trace an inbound money transfer. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr M brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld as he said Santander hadnt 
made an error. Mr M didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a complaint, I first need to determine if the business in question has got 
something wrong. And where I find it has, consider what it should do to put things right for its 
customer.
Here, I have been unable to find that Santander has got anything wrong. While Mr M has 
said he sent the bankers draft by post, Santander has no record of receiving this. Nor has Mr 
M been able to provide proof that it has been delivered and signed for or that its been 
cashed. It therefore seems most likely that Santander didnt received the bankers draft, so I 
cant say its made an error by not crediting this to Mr Ms account.
Mr M has said he has subsequently arranged a swift payment from the international bank to 
his Santander account and this hasnt been credited either. Santander has confirmed that 
this payment has not been received. As this is an inbound payment to Santander it hasnt 
been able to trace it, as it is only the sender that will be able to do so in order to determine 
why there has been an issue. So I find Santander have made no error here either, and I 
cant hold it responsible for a payment that has been made by another bank. 
I understand Mr M is frustrated as this service has been unable to help him locate the 
money. However our remit is to consider whether a business has fairly dealt with a complaint 
and as Ive not found Santander has made an error here, I cant ask it to do anything further 
to resolve the matter. Mr M may want to consider contacting the sending bank to try and 
locate the funds, to help him resolve the matter.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman