DRN-3438625
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund overdraft and interest charges accrued 
as a result of fraudulent direct debits being taken from his bank account.
What happened
In 2015 Mr D said he agreed for a now ex-partner to oversee his bank account as he 
regularly travelled overseas. She was added to the account by mandate as a signatory. Mr D 
said he cancelled the mandate shortly afterwards. But in August 2019 he noticed that there 
were regular payments being taken out of his account. He raised his concerns with Lloyds 
who initially rejected his direct debit indemnity request as the payments had been leaving the 
account for several years.  
But a few days later after Mr D said the transactions were fraudulent, as they were to pay his 
ex-partners mortgage repayments which he hadnt authorised. Lloyds refunded the 
payments under the direct debit guarantee scheme. Mr D complained to Lloyds as he said 
he should have also received 8% simple interest on the refund for the time hed been 
deprived of the funds. And that he should be reimbursed any overdraft fees, charges and 
interest that had been applied to his account because of the direct debits and other 
transactions made by his ex-partner.
Lloyds said theyd actioned the mandate request to add Mr Ds ex-partner to the account. 
And they werent told to remove her from the account until November 2018. They actioned 
the removal request in December 2018 in line with their service level agreement. As Mr D 
said the direct debit request had been fraudulently set up, theyd refunded him the amounts 
taken. But as theyd a mandate in place which was removed once requested, they hadnt 
made any error. And it was for Mr D to have monitored his account. They did accept that 
they should have refunded the direct debit guarantee request when first asked  9 August 
2019 and offered Mr D £250 for the trouble and upset this had caused. And for the time he 
was deprived of the refunded amount, 8% simple interest - £25.25 (after income tax 
deduction).
Mr D wasnt happy with Lloyds response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said that Lloyds hadnt done anything wrong as there was a mandate in 
place. And  as Mr D was actively using the account and getting bank statements, he should 
have seen what was happening with his account.
Mr D didnt agree he said the mandate should have been cancelled in September 2015 and 
that hes suffered a heavy financial loss as a result of the fraudulent activity on his account. 
He asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not going to ask Lloyds to do anything more. I know this will be a 
disappointment to Mr D so Ill explain why.
Firstly, as Lloyds have refunded Mr D the transactions he says were taken fraudulently by 
direct debit from his account, I wont comment on this any further. Ive focused my comments 
on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Were an impartial service and we look at the evidence given by both parties.  Where there is 
a different version of events as is the case here, I will decide what I think most likely 
happened. And whether Lloyds has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with Mr D.
Mr D argues that the fraudulent direct debit taken from his account by his ex-partner 
deprived him of funds over several years. And that Lloyds should pay 8% simple interest on 
top of the refunded amount. Also, overdraft fees and any charges caused by the direct debits 
being taken. But for me to say that Lloyds should pay 8% simple interest on top of the 
refunded direct debit payments and the other fees and charges I need to be satisfied that 
Lloyds had done something wrong.
Being a victim of fraud can be very distressing, and I can understand Mr Ds concerns as he 
has been financially impacted by his ex-partner using his account. But in reaching my 
decision I have to decide whether I think Lloyds should have known what was happening, or 
theyd made an error. But I cant see that Lloyds did anything wrong, other than they didnt 
action Mr Ds direct debit indemnity request straight away. And I can see that they have 
compensated him for this. 
Its not in dispute that Mr D agreed for his ex-partner to be a signatory on his account in 
2015 and being a signatory, Id expect Lloyds to act in line with the mandate it held for her. I 
know Mr D said he cancelled the mandate shortly afterwards, but I havent seen any 
evidence that Mr D asked for his ex-partner to be removed from the account before 
November 2018. And I can see Lloyds acted on this request and removed his ex-partner as 
a signatory. 
As the disputed transactions had been going on for many years by direct debit since 2015, 
and given the amounts and frequency, its difficult to understand how Mr D hadnt noticed 
them. I can see that mortgage repayments of £447.90 were leaving Mr Ds account on a 
regular monthly basis from October 2015. I cant see that any other payments were made to 
the same recipient which might have caused Mr D to have overlooked the transaction. I can 
also see that the account started to accrue overdraft and interest charges from early 2016.
I know Mr D said he was overseas and didnt have regular access to his account. But it 
wasnt until November 2018 that I can see Mr D asked for his ex-partner to be removed as a 
signatory on the account. And it wasnt until August 2019 that Mr D after being aware his ex-
partner had access to his account that he told Lloyds there was a fraudulent direct debit 
being taken from his account.
As regular statements were being sent to Mr D, I think it was incumbent upon him to take 
reasonable care to monitor his account and report any unrecognised transactions.
Im pleased that Lloyds have acted on the direct debit indemnity request. They should have 
acted upon this sooner which they have accepted, and I think their offer of 8% simple 
interest for the time Mr D was deprived of the funds by their error, and £250 for his trouble 
and upset is fair and reasonable.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman