DRN-4255445
The complaint
Ms G complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wouldnt allow her to withdraw her 
money.
What happened
Ms G visited a NatWest branch to withdraw money as she was considering putting the 
money into an Individual Savings Account (ISA) but hadnt decided at that point where to 
place it. She also says her closest bank branch was closing, and she would then need to 
travel by bus to a branch. When she requested to withdraw the money, she was initially 
refused, but after further questions she was allowed to withdraw £5,000. She then visited her 
local branch to withdraw a further amount and says she as told she could do this the next 
day. She then asked about using ATMS and was told she could withdraw £1,500 a day from 
certain ATMs. However, she was then called to say that she wouldnt be able to withdraw the 
money she had requested and that the limit for the ATMs was £250 a day. Ms G says she 
was cross examined about why she wanted the money and threatened with the police being 
contacted if she tried to withdraw any more large amounts. Ms G says this has made her too 
nervous to use her account and has needed to borrow money from relatives.
NatWest issued a final response letter to Ms G in April 2023. It said that when a customer 
wishes to withdraw a large amount of money, they are referred to a private area to speak 
with an adviser so the reasons for the request can be established. It said that Ms G wasnt 
willing to provide the reason for her request and so Ms G then spoke to a manager. She was 
asked if she could carry out a bank transfer instead, but Ms G didnt want to do this and after 
further questioning the £5,000 withdrawal was agreed. Ms G then spoke with her local 
branch and further concerns were raised about the large cash withdrawals. NatWest said 
that it wouldnt be looking to authorise any more large cash withdrawals without evidence of 
where the money was going. NatWest apologised that Ms G was left for a period of time not 
knowing what was happening and said that feedback would be provided and £50 was paid 
as an apology.
Ms G wasnt satisfied with NatWests response and referred he complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He said that while NatWest had a duty of care 
towards Ms G he thought it had over-stepped its authority in this case and felt the suggestion 
of police involvement came across as threatening rather than supportive which is why Ms G 
hasnt wanted to use her account since. He noted that Ms G was well known to the branches 
she used, brought sufficient ID to make the cash withdrawal and had said she provided the 
reasons for her withdrawal. He further noted that had NatWest been unclear whether there 
was a valid reason for the withdrawal on the day, Ms G provided this information in the email 
dated 4 April 2023. He said that NatWests actions had a significant impact on Ms G and 
recommended that NatWest lift any holds preventing Ms G from withdrawing her cash and 
allow her to withdraw cash going forward, unless it could present a tangible reason why this 
shouldnt be allowed. And for the distress and inconvenience caused he recommended that 
NatWest pay Ms G £500 additional compensation.
NatWest didnt agree with our investigators view. It said this service was aware of the large 
number of scams that are occurring at present and that it had been told in previous 
occasions that it hadnt done enough to prevent a scam. It said it asked Ms G for evidence of 
the beneficiary for her own protection and didnt think it fair to say it had done something 
wrong. It said it couldnt guarantee that no future restrictions would be placed on Ms Gs 
payments going forward as each payment is assessed individually. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that NatWest is required to have security measures in place to protect its 
customers and I note its comments that the actions taken in this case were out of concern 
for Ms G. I understand that given the amount of fraud and scams that have occurred in 
recent times, that NatWest may take a more cautious approach when large cash withdrawals 
are requested but this approach shouldnt prevent a genuine customer accessing their 
money. 
I assess each case based on its individual merits and in this case, I find that NatWest didnt 
provide Ms G with the service it should have. I say this because while the cash withdrawal 
may have been unusual activity for Ms Gs account, she provided the branch staff with her 
ID, answered the questions required and explained why she was wishing to withdraw the 
money. While she didnt provide a final destination for the money, this is because she hadnt 
at that time decided on which product to invest in and she didnt wish to disclose her 
investment plans to the bank. Ms G has also explained that she is known at both branches 
she visited, and I have nothing to suggest that the bank staff were concerned that Ms G 
either lacked capacity to make the withdrawal decision or that she was acting in a way that 
would raise concerns about her behaviour.
Therefore, while agree that NatWest was right to ask questions before releasing the money, 
as Ms G answered the questions raised (even if this was to say she didnt have the details of 
where the money would be invested) I find it would have been reasonable in this case to 
have accepted her responses. I also agree that it was right to suggest other forms of 
payment, such as a bank transfer, but as Ms G said this wasnt what she wished to do, I find 
at this point the bank should have facilitated Ms Gs cash withdrawal (even if this was 
subject to certain limits).
Following Ms Gs visit to the branch she raised a complaint. In this she explained again the 
reason for wishing to make the withdrawal and why she was choosing to use cash rather 
than another form of money transfer. In this she noted that she had a safe at home (which 
she said she told the branch staff). 
In response to Ms Gs complaint email, a final response was issued, and NatWest also said 
that due to the recent activity on Ms Gs account it would require evidence of the reason for 
any cash withdrawals going forward and if this wasnt provided then the police would be 
alerted. I do not think this was a reasonable response given the information that NatWest 
had been provided with. Ms G had said why she wanted the money and that she didnt want 
to share details of where she had other accounts. While this may not have been the answer 
NatWest wanted it is Ms Gs right to not share her other account details and this shouldnt 
mean she is then prevented from withdrawing her money. I also note that Ms G offered to 
sign a waiver saying she wouldnt expect repayment of the amounts she was withdrawing. 
Based on the above, I do not find that NatWest provided Ms G with the service it should 
have and I find she should be compensated for this. I have taken into account the details 
Ms G has provided about her branch visits and how she was treated as well as the stress she has explained since this issue arose due to her concerns that any cash withdrawal may 
result in the police being alerted. I note she has said she has needed to rely on family as she 
has been too nervous to access the money in her account. Therefore, I find this issue has 
caused Ms G a great deal of stress and inconvenience and I agree with our investigators 
recommendation that she be paid £500 compensation. 
Our investigator also recommended that NatWest lift any holds preventing Ms G from 
withdrawing cash from her account and allow her to withdraw cash going forward, unless it 
could present a tangible reason why it shouldnt. NatWest responded to this point saying that 
it couldnt guarantee that no future restrictions would be placed on Ms Gs payments going 
forward as each payment is assessed individually. In this case I agree with our investigator 
that any hold arising from the issues that occurred in April 2023 should be removed from 
Ms Gs account. However, I also agree that this shouldnt mean Ms Gs account wont be 
subject to the usual checks going forward as Ms G shouldnt be left exposed to any future 
issues as a result of this complaint. That said, going forward, we would expect NatWest to 
consider any requests Ms G may make in regard to accessing her funds with the reasonable 
balance of providing protection through its security checks while still allowing her access to 
her money when she makes it clear the request is genuine.  
Putting things right
NatWest should:
lift the hold placed on Ms Gs account as a result of the April 2023 issue. While 
NatWest is required to undertake certain security checks and has a duty of care to 
Ms G going forward, we would expect the checks undertaken to be reasonable and 
not unnecessarily prevent Ms G making future withdrawals for genuine reasons as 
she provided in this case. 
Pay Ms G £500 additional compensation for the distress and inconvenience this 
issues has caused Ms G. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc should take 
the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman