DRN-2994826
The complaint
Mr A complains  that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) had set too high a limit 
for his credit card limit as this has put him into financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr A opened a credit card account with Barclaycard in March 2006. And said that overtime 
the credit card limit was substantially increased from £1,200 to £10,700. The credit card limit 
was increased as below:
November 2010 November 2011 January 2013 August 2013 December 2015
£3,200 £3,700 £5,200 £6,700 £10,700
In July 2020, Barclaycard told Mr A thered been an error in calculating affordability and that 
his credit card limit may have been set too high. This caused him to complain to Barclaycard 
as he said this had led to his financial difficulties and affected his credit rating.
Barclaycard said the letter was sent to many of its customers who they felt may have been 
affected by a technical fault theyd identified in their credit assessment model from October 
2014. Barclaycard said having reviewed Mr A s circumstances, like many customers, he 
wasnt impacted by the fault, but theyd offered £75 to apologise for the concern. Barclaycard 
feel they acted responsibly when providing the credit card facilities to Mr A and werent made 
aware of his having any financial difficulties at the time. 
Mr A wasnt happy with Barclaycards response. He said his indebtedness had increased 
and wants Barclaycard to freeze the interest charges so that he can clear his debt. And to 
have his credit file amended accordingly. He referred his complaint to us.
The investigator looked at all the available information. He said he didnt have sufficient 
evidence to show the credit card limit increases from 2010 to 2013 were lent irresponsibly. 
But he did think Barclaycard should have done more when they increased Mr As limit by 
£4,000 in December 2015. He upheld this part of Mr As complaint. He felt while Barclaycard 
had undertaken a degree of credit assessment this didnt go far enough, and Barclaycard 
didnt carry out sufficient further checks on Mr As financial circumstances to determine if the 
credit card debt was affordable. The investigator asked Barclaycard to:
rework the account and remove any interest charged over £6,700;
remove any late payment or over the limit charges since December 2015;
the payments Mr A made since December 2015 should then be deducted from the 
reworked account balance. Any extra that was paid should be treated as 
overpayments and refunded to Mr A;
add 8% per year simple interest on overpayment, if there was any, from the date they 
were made to the date of the settlement;
remove any missed payments from Mr As credit file since December 2015;
offer a total of £250 compensation to Mr A, for the mistake they made which led to 
the worsening of his financial position. Taking into account the £75 theyve already 
offered, this is an additional £175.
Barclaycard didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred 
to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
In July 2020, Barclaycard told Mr A theyd been undertaking an internal review of customers 
circumstances at the time that their Barclaycard limits were set. This review was prompted 
by a fault identified in their system and the review and any resolution, had been agreed with 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Barclaycard have stressed that not all customers, 
who received a letter relating to the review, would have actually been impacted. But to 
ensure that all those impacted were identified, they reviewed all limits agreed during the 
affected period. 
Its important to note that receiving one of these letters wouldnt suggest a credit limit that 
was too high, or that the lending was unaffordable. Barclaycard has simply identified a 
period of time where its lending decisions could have been more robust  and it could be the 
case that the additional information they should have considered wouldnt have made a 
difference to their decision to lend, or to how much they were willing to lend to a particular 
consumer.
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice when someone 
complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending. There are two overarching 
questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Barclaycard complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy them that 
Mr A would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Barclaycard make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr A 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Barclaycard act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Regulations in place at the time Barclaycard lent to Mr A required them to carry out a
reasonable assessment of whether he could afford to repay the credit in a sustainable
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability
check.
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused, meaning Barclaycard need to think
about whether repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse
consequences for Mr A. In other words, it wasnt enough for Barclaycard to think only about
the likelihood that they would get their money back without considering the impact of
repayment on Mr A himself.Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are. What constitutes a 
proportionate affordability check will generally depend on several factors such as the specific 
circumstances of the borrower, their financial history, current situation and whether there are 
any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. 
Section 5.2A.20 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) provides examples of the factors that need to be considered and the circumstances, 
under which, they should be applied.
Our investigator didnt ask Barclaycard to do anything differently for the credit card increases 
from 2010 to 2013 as there was insufficient evidence to suggest Barclaycard had lent 
irresponsibly. As Mr A hasnt disputed this finding, I wont comment any further on this point 
of his complaint. I will focus my decision on the credit limit increase of £4,000 made in 
December 2015.
Barclaycard said the review of the account to increase Mr As credit limit by £4,000.00 was 
carried out in November 2015. The data used to assess the application was provided by a 
third party and although they didnt provide the details of Mr As income, theyd validated it. 
They also showed Mr A had outstanding balances of £6,675.00 with Barclaycard, 
£10,158.00 with external credit cards and £1,115.00 with current accounts making a total 
debt of £17,948.00. Barclaycard said the review suggested that Mr A could afford a 
maximum increase to his credit limit of £5,000.00, but theyd chosen to only offer Mr A 
£4,000 which he had the option to reject.
As I outlined above it isnt enough just to consider whether Mr A would be likely to pay back 
the additional credit, but the impact this would have on him. And £4,000 was an increase to 
Mr As credit card limit of around 60%. The details also showed that Mr A was already 
utilising most of his existing Barclaycard credit limit. And showed a high indebtedness to 
other credit cards. I think given the increase being offered it was appropriate to ask for 
further customer information at that point. I say this as it would have, on balance, given 
Barclaycard a clearer understanding of Mr As financial position. Barclaycard simply relying 
on third party credit reference data wasnt sufficient here.  
Our investigator has obtained Mr As bank statements, and Ive looked at these from mid-
September to end of November 2015, the time when the increase was made. This shows Mr 
A was employed as a contract caterer. The average of his income was around £1.190 which 
would equate to an annual salary of £14,280. The statements also show Mr A was at times 
in receipt of Working Tax Credit and Universal Credit. They also show he was consistently 
using his £1,600 overdraft limit each month, near or close to its limit, incurring charges for 
this. Given that Mr As indebtedness was already above his annual salary (not taking into 
account his benefits) this would I think have shown that Mr A wouldnt be able to repay 
sustainably the increase in his credit card limit.
So I dont think Barclaycard acted fairly and Im satisfied that Barclaycard acted irresponsibly 
in increasing Mr As credit limit in December 2015.  
Putting things right
I have considered what would be a fair way to address these errors. Although Mr A shouldnt 
have been given the higher limit, he has had the use of the funds spent on the credit card 
transactions. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask Barclaycard to write any outstanding 
balance off (if one remains). But I dont think Mr A should be held responsible for the costs 
associated with the increased limit on the credit card once this was increased above £6,700  the interest, and any charges, applied to them. Had the credit increase not been granted, 
as I think should have happened, Mr A wouldnt have had to pay these amounts, so I dont 
think it is fair that he should pay them now. I also dont think any negative information should 
be recorded on Mr As credit file in respect of the credit card from December 2015. 
I think this has caused Mr A trouble and upset. And I agree Barclaycard should pay him in 
total £250 for this - taking account of the £75 already paid.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) to:
rework the account and remove any interest over £6,700;
remove any late payment or over the limit charges since December 2015;
the payments Mr A has made since December 2015 should then be deducted from 
the reworked account balance. Any extra that was paid should be treated as 
overpayments and refunded to Mr A;
add 8% per year simple interest on overpayment, if there was any, from the date they 
were made to the date of the settlement
remove any missed payments from Mr As credit file since December 2015; and 
pay Mr A in total of £250 for trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman