DRN-1766712
 
The complaint
Mrs W says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a regular payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy to cover her store card repayments.  
What happened
Mrs W took out a store card in May 1997. At the same time she took out a PPI policy to 
cover her card repayments. The policy cost £1 per £100 of the balance on Mrs Ws store 
card. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the 
store card if Mrs W was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost her job. The 
benefit would continue to be paid until Mrs W returned to work.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld because he thought the 
policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mrs W.
Mrs W disagrees. So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ws complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
The PPI was applied for in store when Mrs W applied for a store card. Theres limited 
information available to me about what happened at the time of sale. Because of this, I dont 
know what may or may not have been said. So I have to decide whats more likely to have 
happened based on the information Ive been given.
AXA had to make sure the policy was presented as optional and that Mrs W agreed to take 
it. Ive looked at the credit agreement that she signed and I think it was clear the PPI was 
optional and that Mrs W chose to take it.
I say this because I can see that in the section that deals with PPI theres a tick next to the 
words Yes, I want my Account covered by Payment & Purchase Protection. If Mrs W 
didnt want PPI she couldve left the section blank like she did for the other optional sections. 
So I think Mrs W had PPI because she chose to take it.
I dont think AXA advised Mrs W to take PPI. What this means is that AXA didnt recommend 
PPI to Mrs W based on her circumstances, they just gave her information about PPI and it 
was up to Mrs W to decide if the policy was right for her. This information needed to be given 
in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so she could make an informed choice about 
buying PPI.AXA say that sufficient information wouldve been provided at the point of sale to allow Mrs 
W to make an informed choice on whether to add PPI to her account. But I cant say whether 
this information was good enough. That being said even if AXA did give all the information 
Mrs W needed to make an informed choice on taking out the policy, I think she wouldve still 
taken the policy because at the time of sale from what we know about the policies sold:
She was eligible for the PPI.
 
Although Mrs W tells us she suffered from a pre-existing medical condition, shes 
also told us that it had never led to her having any significant time off work. So I dont 
think that her medical condition being excluded under the policy wouldve changed 
her mind about buying it. And it doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by any of 
the other main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim.
 
At the time of the sale Mrs W says she was entitled to some sick pay which she could 
use to make her repayments if she couldnt work but had no other means of making 
her repayments. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid out on top of any 
work benefits and for potentially longer. So I think the policy still wouldve provided a 
useful benefit for Mrs W in her situation and I cant see how knowing this information 
wouldve changed her mind.
 
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs W and she could 
cancel the policy if she no longer wanted it.
 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mrs W on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint against AXA France 
IARD. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman