DRN-2359031
The complaint
The representative of the estate of Mrs D complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax, wrongly advised her to invest a total of £9,000 in an unsuitable product, mainly due 
to its unnecessarily high costs - in 2007.
What happened
Acting on behalf of the estates representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), 
said:
Mrs D had little investment experience or knowledge and was therefore dependent 
on the advisor for good advice
Actively-managed funds invariably have higher costs than index-linked ones and 
independent research demonstrates that costs have a major impact on returns
An advisor must spell out the hidden, under-the-bonnet charges associated with 
actively-managed funds
An adviser also has a duty not to expose their client to unnecessary taxes. This 
includes any income, capital gains or corporation taxes paid within a collective 
investment such as a life fund
This recommendation to invest in a single, complex, high-cost managed fund lacked 
diversification
Spreading Mrs Ds money between different funds would have reduced the overall 
risk
A Unit Trust or Open-Ended Investment Company (OEIC) would have allowed Mrs D 
to transfer funds into a tax-efficient ISA wrapper in subsequent years, and without 
penalties
Nor was consideration to given to more suitably lower-risk products such as fixed-
rate bonds
BoS rejected this complaint, saying:
This was a cautious-medium risk investment and matched Mrs Ds circumstances 
and objectives
The charges were clearly laid out in the documentation
Mrs D had nearly £86,000 on deposit and a reasonable monthly income surplus
The advisor recommended she invest £14,000 in this product but she chose to 
reduce this sum to £9,000 (£5,000 directly in the product and another £4,000 via an 
ISA wrapper)
He also recommended she invest £3,000 in a cash ISA and £20,000 in a saver 
account
The advisor could not have recommended an OEIC as this required a minimum sum 
of £30,000
Mrs D retained the product for 17 years and did not make any withdrawals for the first 
seven years; so there was no evidence the recommendation was unaffordable
An investigator at this service broadly agreed with BoS arguments and did not feel the 
complaint should be upheld.
The CMC disagreed, and said:
It is not enough for a firm to merely state the costs of an investment. There is, and 
was, a duty to properly consider low-cost investments which are more suitable
The Financial Services Authoritys guidelines at the time stated: If a provider firm 
makes a personal recommendation to a private customer to buy a packaged product, 
it must take reasonable steps to ensure that the recommended packaged product is 
the most suitable of those available
Halifax's own "minimum requirement" policy, effectively treating its wealthier clients 
better than its less-wealthy clients, cannot reasonably used as justification for its 
failure to give the right advice
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the reasons she outlined (largely the same 
as those which led BoS to reject Mrs Ds complaint.
 
Given Mrs Ds overall financial circumstances and declared objectives I dont think it was 
unreasonable to recommend that she invest less than 17% of her savings in a relatively low- 
risk product  with a view to getting a better return on this part of her money. Also, she 
actually only invested just over 10%, an amount which meant her overall money was only 
exposed to a very small degree of risk. So I dont feel she was exposed to too much risk via 
this investment.
Given the spread of assets and the relatively small percentage of Mrs Ds money invested, I 
dont believe recommendation lacked diversification.
I therefore dont agree that Mrs D should have been advised to invest in a lower-risk product, 
whether this be one with far lower exposure to equities or none (such as fixed-rate bonds).
In relation to the allegedly high charges, its important to explain that my role  and that of 
this service  is to assess whether a business clearly did something wrong, such as offer 
unsuitable advice. It is not simply to question whether, with hindsight or not, a business 
might have made a different recommendation.
In this context I dont agree with the CMCs interpretation of the regulatory guidelines at the 
time. BoS was perfect entitled to recommend a product such as an actively-managed fund 
where fees might be higher than those of another potential investment  unless such a fund 
was manifestly unsuitable (it was too risky, early withdrawal charges made it inappropriate 
etc). 
I accept that in some cases the charges might be so disproportionately high compared to 
those of other providers or equally-suitable products that a business has a special 
responsibility to highlight these. But, I dont accept that the 1.25% and 1.5% annual charges 
on these two products were unusually high. It is obviously crucial for any charges to be 
clearly spelt out so that a client can make an informed decision. I am satisfied that BoS did 
this.  Given Mrs Ds circumstances and likely income (i.e. being a basic-rate taxpayer), I dont 
accept that the potential tax implications made this an unsuitable recommendation, 
compared to say an OEIC.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs D 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman