DRN-2781086
The complaint
Miss P complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender was irresponsible in its 
lending to her.
What happened
Miss P was provided with two loans by Mr Lender one in June 2018 and the second in 
October 2018. Both loans were for £500 repayable over six months. Miss P says that at the 
time of the loans she was in a persistent debt cycle, taking on new debt to meet her existing 
commitments. She says her credit file showed her credit commitments each month were 
more than her monthly income and the only way the shortfall could be met was through more 
debt. She says that Mr Lender had the information about her credit commitments but ignored 
this based on other information Miss P had provided. 
Mr Lender issued a final response letter dated 22 October 2020. It said that before the loans 
were provided it carried out affordability, employment and credit checks in line with its 
Responsible Lending Policy. It said its checks were carried out for each loan to ensure that 
the loans were affordable. It didnt think that the lending was excessive or showed signs of 
Miss P being in financial difficulty. Mr Lender said that it was reasonable it would rely on the 
information Miss P provided. Mr Lender didnt uphold Miss Ps complaint but did, as a 
gesture of goodwill, offer her a £25 voucher and to remove any adverse information from her 
credit file.
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint. He noted that Mr Lender wasnt required to complete 
credit checks but as it had he thought it reasonable the information was taken into account in 
its lending decision. He said that the information showed that Miss P had five short term 
loans outstanding at the time of loan 1 showing she was having problems managing her 
money. Given this he thought Mr Lender ought to have realised it was unlikely Miss P 
wouldve been able to sustainably repay this loan  and any subsequent loans.
Mr Lender didnt accept our adjudicators view. It said that Miss P had been able to repay the 
loans  and had a good credit score with no defaults or delinquencies in the previous 12 
months. It said that although Miss P had five short term loans recorded as outstanding at the 
time of loan 1, three accounts hadnt been updated in over 30 days so this information 
couldnt be solely relied on. It also noted there was only one short term loan outstanding at 
the time of loan 2. It said it took the information provided by Miss P into account when 
assessing her expenditure. 
Miss P responded to our adjudicators view. She said before the first loan (and a previously 
cancelled application) she had been sent an email asking for her income and expenses and 
that an amount for credit commitments that was higher than her income was recorded. 
Mr Lender called her and based on the information she then provided agreed to the loan. 
Miss P said that the information she gave shouldnt have overridden the credit information 
gathered and that this showed the lending was irresponsible. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss P could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Miss P could sustainably repay her loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ps complaint.
Miss P was provided with the first loan by Mr Lender in June 2018. Before this was provided 
Mr Lender gathered information about Miss Ps income and expenses and carried out a 
credit check. I find these checks were sufficient at this stage and I would expect the 
information gathered to be assessed as part of the lending decision.
Having looked at the information gathered, I think this should have raised concerns. Miss Ps 
monthly income was recorded as £2,117. However, before the first loan, Mr Lender sent 
Miss P an email asking her to confirm certain details and noting it had found credit 
commitments of over £2,900 for that month. I can see Miss P responded to this email saying 
her credit commitments were much lower, at £1,100, and saying one commitment of £1,400 
had been extended to July by agreement. However, the loan provided in June 2018 was 
repayable over six monthly instalments and so a £1,400 commitment being put a month later 
could have meant the loan repayment was affordable in June, but would put doubt on the affordability of the next payment. I also think the notification of the loan extension may have 
raised concerns that Miss P was struggling to manage her money.
The credit check carried out before loan 1 also recorded Miss P as having five short term 
loans outstanding. I note the comments Mr Lender has made about why it shouldnt just rely 
on this but also the other information gathered. I agree that all the information gathered 
should have been included in the assessment. Combining the information about the 
outstanding short term loans in June 2018 (and also I note the April and March 2018 checks 
also showed four and two short term loans outstanding respectively) with the checks of 
Miss Ps credit commitments that suggested outgoings of over £2,900 (for which Miss P 
noted the additional £1,400 as being due in July) should have raised concerns that Miss P 
was struggling to manage her money. I think the information raised significant concerns that 
this loan wasnt sustainably affordable.
I note that Miss P repaid loan 1 early and then took out a loan for the same amount a couple 
of weeks later. I dont think this suggests that Miss Ps situation had improved significantly 
from the circumstances present at the time of the first loan. I note the number of outstanding 
short term loans had reduced, but Miss Ps credit report was still showing a loan outstanding 
and given I do not think that loan 1 should have been provided, I do not find that the situation 
present by loan 2 was such that this loan should have been considered sustainably 
affordable.
Based on the above, I do not find that the loans should have been provided and so I uphold 
this complaint.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Miss P from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought 
to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss P may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss P in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss P would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
 
PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender should:refund Miss P all interest and charges she paid on the loans along with 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement; and
remove any adverse information relating to these loans from Miss Ps credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Miss P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender 
should take the actions set out about in resolution to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman