DRN-1090427
 
The complaint
Mrs I is unhappy that a claim made under her property owners insurance policy for a boiler 
breakdown has been declined by U K Insurance Limited (UKI). 
What happened
The boiler in Mrs Is let property stopped working and she reported this to UKI, her landlord 
insurance policy provider.
UKI asked Mrs I to provide a report confirming the cause of damage, which she sent to 
them. UKI declined the claim on the basis the boiler had stopped working due to a build-up 
of sludge in the system, which they said isnt covered as it is gradual and wear and tear.
Mrs I made a complaint to UKI and their decision remained the same. As Mrs I was unhappy 
with UKIs response she approached this service.
Our investigator looked at everything but didnt uphold the complaint. He said that UKI had 
applied the exclusion fairly as sludge would occur over time.
Mrs I didnt agree with the investigator and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the information provided by both parties, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Following the breakdown of Mrs Is boiler she contacted UKI. They asked for a report 
confirming the cause of damage, so they could see whether the event was covered under 
Mrs Is policy.
Mrs I obtained a report from an engineer, and submitted this to UKIs agents for 
consideration. Amongst other things, the report said:
We looked at the system and found the following
The water in the system is very dirty and sludge is present in the Feed and 
Expansion tank in the loft
There is an airlock in the central heating pipework
There is a sludge blockage in the central heating pipework
The circulator pump was damaged by the dirty system waterThe boiler would not fire up and work properly as there is poor circulation due 
to the sludge and air locks
UKI declined the claim on the basis the build-up of sludge caused the damage and they 
believe this is wear and tear and gradual, which isnt covered under the policy:
We will not cover You for Damage caused by or resulting from:
c depletion, deterioration, corrosion, erosion, wear and tear, or other gradually 
developing conditions, unless such Damage results from an Accident.
Sludge generally appears over time and this is due to debris and dirt within the system. It will 
depend in each case how long it takes to build up, it could be over weeks, months or even 
years. But by its very nature, it isnt something that wouldnt be present one day, and appear 
the next. So I dont think its unreasonable for UKI to say it appeared gradually and caused 
the damage.
Whilst I note Mrs Is comments that the policy terms make no reference to sludge 
specifically, they do say that wear and tear and gradual damage isnt covered. UKI wouldnt 
be able to list within the policy terms every single event that could be either gradual or wear 
and tear. So I dont think UKI has acted unfairly by not mentioning a sludge build up 
specifically within the policy terms, as it has explained gradual damage and wear and tear 
generally are excluded.
Sludge is something that occurs gradually, and as the policy terms say this isnt covered, I 
dont think UKI has acted unreasonably by declining the claim on this basis.
Whilst Mrs I has raised concerns that she wasnt told during annual services and gas safety 
inspections that sludge was building up, the services were carried out by third parties, so this 
isnt something I can consider here against UKI.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2019.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman