DRN-3253571
The complaint
Mr A complains U K Insurance Limited (UKI) trading as Privilege Car Insurance havent 
completed repairs properly following a claim on his motor insurance policy. Mr As also 
unhappy with the customer service hes received during the claim process.
  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision, setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision. 
On 14 June 2021 Mr A contacted UKI to report someone had tried to break into his car. He 
said theyd smashed the window and damaged various sections around the window as well 
as the car when trying to break in. 
Mr A wasnt happy with the call time he had to wait when trying to speak to UKI, and when 
he was able to speak to someone says he was told to take his car to a windscreen repairer. 
Mr A says he pointed out the damage wasnt just to the windscreen there was other damage 
as well  but says UKI wouldnt listen. So, he took his car to the windscreen repairer as hed 
been told to do  who said they couldnt repair it, as Mr A said they would.
Mr A then took his car to a manufacturers dealer, who provided an estimate for the repairs. 
Mr A says UKI initially disputed he could get any work done here, but after the estimate was 
produced Mr As car was then transported to a paint and body garage  also manufacturer 
approved. Ultimately, all the repairs Mr A expected happened, apart from the roof. Mr A says 
the roof should be included in the repairs, but UKIs senior engineer didnt agree. Mr A says 
the senior engineer was very unprofessional in the way he discussed things  shutting Mr A 
down at every opportunity.
UKI said for the repairs the senior engineer had discussed the matter with Mr As garage, 
and in his expert opinion the damage to the roof isnt linked to the attempted theft  so UKI 
wont be paying for the roof. But they said if Mr A gets an independent report, then theyd 
consider that. In respect of the windscreen element they said Mr A had wanted to see if the 
windscreen repairer could fix it first, but their agent should have clearly known this was 
unlikely due to damage to the door. As for how the senior engineer spoke to Mr A, theyve 
said they were sorry for how Mr A felt and had given the senior engineer feedback. They 
offered £75 for the inconvenience Mr A had experienced, but hed rejected this.
Mr A asked us to look into things, saying he didnt think he should be required to get an 
independent report  and surely UKI should have done that when investigating his 
complaint.
One of our Investigators considered Mr As complaint. Overall, they felt UKI had acted fairly 
in saying they wouldnt carry out the repairs. And they felt the £75 awarded by UKI for the 
poor service was fair.
Mr A didnt agree, he felt he wasnt being treated fairly, so the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The customer service Mr A has received
Mr A has said when he first logged his call, he was told to go to the windscreen repairer. UKI 
have partially accepted this. Ive not been provided with the call, but I dont think I need it. I 
say that because UKIs internal notes show the agent who took Mr As call believed the 
windscreen repairer might be able to help Mr A. I have seen the notes say Mr A mentioned 
about going to the windscreen repairer when his excess was mentioned  but regardless Id 
expect UKI to be able to clearly explain what theyre unlikely to be able to help in Mr As 
circumstances. So, unless Mr A was insistent, which Ive not seen any evidence of, I think 
UKI needed to do more here.
In relation to the senior engineer, again Ive not been provided with the call recordings. But 
Ive seen UKI have upheld this complaint  so I dont necessarily think I need them. Mr A has 
said the senior engineer was, in short, rude and unprofessional. I think given the senior 
engineer is the person deciding whether Mr As repairs are fully carried out or not  this is a 
concern, as I wouldnt expect someone in that kind of position to act inappropriately  as UKI 
have accepted he did.
And, more generally, I can see Mr A was calling for updates and / or relaying information 
given to him by one party which then turns out not to be correct  such as being told what 
repairs had been authorised by the senior engineer, only for the garage to say theyd not 
been told that. I can see this was incredibly frustrating for Mr A.
I think all of these issues are worthy of compensation, and Ill come back to this at the end.
The repairs
I can see Mr A feels very strongly the damage to the roof was caused at the same time as 
the attempted theft. Hes pointed out the damage to the roof is right above where the window 
has been smashed  so thinks its just common sense the damage to the roof happened at 
the same time.
UKIs senior engineer has said they dont believe it is accident related. Theyve said I have 
spoken toat the garage and I have been assured that the scratches to the roof are from 
hedge row type vegetation and not glass.
Were not mechanics or engineers, so our approach to these kinds of matters is that well 
rely on those who are, unless theres a reason not to.
I do agree that Mr As position is quite a reasonable one to take  the damage after all is just 
above where damage to the window and door frame have happened  both of which have 
been accepted by UKI. But I also cant ignore that UKIs position is similarly a reasonable 
one to take regarding the repairs  as the scratches could conceivably happened in the way 
the senior engineer has reported.
Under the circumstances, the only expert report Ive got is from UKI  who say the scratches 
arent from the incident. Ive nothing to clearly dispute that, such as an independent report 
carried out by someone Mr A has asked to look at things.Ive noted he thinks UKI should have done this when investigating his complaint  but 
ultimately, its up to them to decide what evidence theyre satisfied with. Here, they were 
satisfied with their senior engineers comments. And I dont think suggesting Mr A get an 
independent report was an unreasonable suggestion in the circumstances.
So, I dont plan on upholding this element of Mr As complaint. If he were to get a report later 
on, then Id expect UKI to consider that.
Putting things right
As Ive mentioned above, I dont uphold Mr As point about the repairs, but I do regarding the 
customer service. I think this has been poor by UKI on several fronts. Ive noted UKI offered 
£75, but I dont think that goes far enough.
Having to make a claim in itself is stressful, but UKI not handling things as they should have 
has exacerbated those issues. With that in mind, I think a payment of £200 for the issues 
Mr A has experienced is fair.
Responses to my provisional decision
UKI disagreed with the outcome Id reached saying theyd acknowledged the poor service 
and felt £75 is fair and reasonable. 
Mr A didnt reply by the deadline.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI have disputed the £200 compensation Ive recommended, saying they feel the £75 they 
awarded is fair and reasonable. But, theyve not explained why they think my award goes too 
far, or their award was enough. Without that, Ive seen no reason to change my mind on how 
much compensation I think is appropriate to resolve this complaint.
  
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and require U K Insurance Limited (UKI) trading as 
Privilege Car Insurance to pay Mr A £200 compensation. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman