DRN-4140229
The complaint
Mr P is complaining about restrictions that TSB Bank plc put on his current account that 
made it difficult for him to make a payment.
What happened
Mr P contacted TSB to make a payment for building work. He said he spent around four 
hours on the phone and he spoke to numerous people to enable him to get the payment 
made. He said he was unable to work during that time. 
TSB said the account was flagged with a fraud alert which placed a security block on the 
account. It acknowledged that this caused Mr P some frustration, but it said it was required 
to protect the account from potential fraud. And it said there wasnt any error in applying the 
block. However, it recognised it could have handled the matter better. So it offered Mr P £25 
in compensation.
Our investigator thought TSBs compensation was fair. She said TSB had a responsibility to 
safeguard the account, but she recognised TSB could have resolved the matter quicker. But 
she thought that the £25 in compensation was fair. 
Mr P didnt agree with the investigator for the following reasons:
He said he spent around four hours resolving this matter. He set out that he charges 
£72.50 per hour and has lost this amount as he was unable to work during this time.
He says the block was left on the account in error as a result of a previous transaction. 
So he didnt agree TSB hadnt done anything wrong in applying the block.
He queried if this Service thought it was fair that it took four hours to make a payment. 
And he didnt think £25 was fair compensation for this. 
As Mr P didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first set out that I acknowledge Ive summarised Mr Ps complaint in a lot less detail 
than he has presented it. Mr P has raised a number of reasons about why hes unhappy with 
the way TSB has handled this matter. Ive not commented on each and every point hes 
raised but, instead Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key points I need to think 
about. I dont mean any discourtesy about this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of 
this service. I assure Mr P, however, that I have read and considered everything hes 
provided.
I can fully understand and appreciate Mr Ps frustrations about what has happened. He 
contacted TSB to make what he considered to be a simple transaction of paying his roofer. 
But TSB is entitled to  and in fact is required to  put safeguards in place to protect a bank 
account from fraud. Im not saying, and neither was TSB, that it considered Mr P was acting 
fraudulently, but the type of transaction he was making came up as an alert on the account.
I note Mr P has suggested that he was told this was a historic block but I dont agree. TSB 
has given us an explanation of the history of the account. And I can see that the initial block 
Mr P referred to was removed after Mr P called to have it removed. Im satisfied that TSB 
has reasonably explained that a new block was placed on his account when he called to 
make the payment and, as I said, TSB is entitled to have measures in place to safeguard an 
account. And Ive not seen anything to show it acted unreasonably in this regard.
That said, I do think it could have handled the call better. Mr P was passed to numerous 
different departments and I do think TSB could and should have enabled him to have the 
block removed quicker than it did. But TSB has apologised for the way the call was handled 
and paid £25 in compensation. I think this is fair. I note Mr P wants TSB to pay his hourly 
rate of £72.50, but Ive not seen anything to show that he has lost out financially as a result 
of whats happened. So I cant reasonably require TSB to pay this. And, ultimately, Im 
satisfied that TSB has taken fair steps to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I think TSB Bank plcs 
compensation offer of £25 is fair compensation. It should pay this to Mr P directly if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman