DRN-4111386
The complaint
Mr J complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly avoided his motor insurance policy.
Mr J has been represented by a third party throughout this complaint, however for ease of 
reading I will refer to Mr J throughout. All references to Mr J include the actions of his 
representative 
What happened
Mr J trades as a sole trader  J. He had insurance with AXA to cover several goods vehicles 
he drove as part of his job as a haulage driver. 
In December 2021 Mr J was stopped by the police while driving one of his vehicles. The 
police carried out some checks and found he didnt have the required licence to drive a 
haulage vehicle. The police contacted AXA and it avoided all the policies Mr J had with it 
(cancelled them as if they had never existed). It said Mr J misrepresented his position when 
he took out the policies and it wouldnt have offered them at all if it had known he didnt have 
a suitable licence to drive them. 
Mr J didnt agree he had misrepresented when he took out the insurance. He said hed 
thought he could operate under the licence of the owner of a company he subcontracted for. 
And he had told AXA about this arrangement and it had accepted this. He made a complaint, 
but AXA didnt uphold it. So he brought it to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
said when taking out the policy Mr J had provided paperwork that hed said showed he had 
an operators licence. And it wasnt AXAs responsibility to check whether this was set up 
correctly. 
Mr J didnt agree this was fair. He said AXA had asked him specifically about the licence and 
he had confirmed it was in a third partys name and that he subcontracts for that company. 
He said if it had any issues with this arrangement it could have said at the time. But he didnt 
agree he misrepresented the facts. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at a complaint where the insurer has alleged a misrepresentation has been 
made, I need to take regard of the relevant law. As Mr J is a commercial customer, the 
relevant law here is the Insurance Act 2015.
Under the Act, when Mr J took out the policy he had a duty to make a fair presentation of the 
risk to the insurer. In order to fulfil a fair presentation of the risk, the Act says a commercial 
policyholder must disclose everything they know, or ought to know, that would influence the 
judgment of an insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms.
AXA has said that Mr J misrepresented the risk by saying he had an operators licence that 
covered him for driving haulage vehicles. However, it has subsequently been shown that this 
licence wasnt sufficient to cover him. So Ive considered whether I think Mr J made a fair 
presentation of the risk.
Mr J has said that he thought he was able to operate under another persons licence as he 
was the sole subcontractor for that persons business. And I can see he was honest about 
the licence he considered he was operating under to AXA. He gave the correct details of the 
third party and the correlating licence number which was accepted by AXA.
However ensuring you have the correct licence for the vehicle you are operating is 
reasonably the responsibility of the driver. So the onus was on Mr J to ensure he did have 
the correct operating licence in place. 
When Mr J took out and renewed his policy he confirmed the following statement on his 
paperwork was correct:
Do you hold a valid Operators licence for your business activities? Yes
The Insurance Act requires Mr J to disclose everything he knew, or ought to have known. 
Considering the importance of the information, I think its reasonable to expect Mr J had 
checked that he had a suitable licence for the vehicle. So while Mr J might have been under 
the impression he could use a third partys licence, I think he ought to have known that this 
wasnt valid. As its something Id expect him to check properly before operating the vehicle 
and taking out the insurance policy, particularly as a commercial customer. I therefore 
consider that he made a misrepresentation under the Act by not disclosing everything he 
ought to have known.
Mr J has said that AXA had all the information about the licence and should have carried out 
its own checks to ensure it was valid. But I dont agree this is AXAs responsibility. Mr J is 
required to provide a fair presentation of the risk, and the onus is on him to ensure the 
information he provides is correct. This includes ensuring he had a valid licence. I think it 
was reasonable for AXA to consider the information Mr J provided to be correct without the 
need to validate it further. 
Under the Insurance Act in order for AXA to take any action, it has to show that there has 
been a qualifying misrepresentation. This means that it needs to show that if it had been 
given the correct information it would either have not offered the insurance policy at all or 
would have offered it on different terms.
AXA has provided a statement from its underwriters that confirms it wouldnt have offered 
the policy cover if the correct information had been provided. Based on this, under the Act, it 
is able to avoid the policy from the date it was taken out. I am therefore persuaded it acted 
fairly and reasonably by avoiding Mr Js policy in the circumstances.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman