DRN-3319244
The complaint
Mr L complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) failed to process his
insurance policy correctly, leaving him without insurance.
What happened
Mr L says he bought a policy online from RSA in June 2019. In September he was pulled
over by the police for having no car insurance. He says he contacted RSA but was told he
wasnt covered. He says it told him it had sent some correspondence requesting more detail
to enable the insurance to be progressed. Mr L says he arranged insurance with a different
provider at the time he was stopped by the police to be able to keep his car.
In December 2019 RSA says it wrote to customers impacted by a system error. When
applying for insurance they had been shown a payment successful screen indicating the
process was complete. But payment hadnt been taken, and the policy wasnt in force. Mr L
received one of these letters. It asked him to contact RSA, but he didnt do this. The
company says it sent two further letters around this time, advising Mr L to make contact and
lastly to confirm that no cover was in force.
Mr L complained to RSA in December 2020. He says he received its letter in December
2019. He took this to the police station because the matter had been referred to the
magistrates court. He thought this would mean the case wouldnt proceed. Mr L says the
police told him this wasnt the case and the court case would continue. In January 2021 RSA
sent Mr L a letter confirming it wouldve provided him indemnity on the day he was stopped
by the police.
Due to the pandemic his court case was postponed several times, until finally it was heard in
March 2021. Mr L was able to provide the indemnity letter and he says the case was thrown
out.
Mr L says being stopped by the police was distressing for both him and his young daughter,
who was a passenger in the car at the time. He says hes been worried about the court case
for a long time and thought this might mean hed lose his job.
RSA offered Mr L £300 compensation for its system failure and the problems this caused. It
thought Mr L couldve contacted it in December 2019 when he received its letters about the
system failure. Had he done this it says the indemnity letter wouldve been provided sooner,
allowing court proceedings to have been halted. It says it has no record of Mr L contacting it
in September 2019. RSA also thought Mr L wouldve known that the premium for around
£1,350 hadnt been collected.
Mr L wasnt happy with the compensation offered and referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld his complaint. He didnt think it was clear that court proceedings
couldve been halted in December 2019. And referred to an email from the court to Mr L in
January 2021 that said this wasnt possible. He thought the police stopping him and the
need to attend court had caused significant distress and inconvenience. Our investigator felt
£750 was an appropriate compensation payment in the circumstances.
Mr L agreed, but RSA didnt think this amount was justified and asked for an ombudsman to
review the complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2022 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Mr Ls complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my intention is not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. I understand he will be
disappointed, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair.
Its clear RSA shouldve put Mr Ls car insurance policy in force in June 2019. The online
system informed Mr L that his payment was successful. He thought this meant he was
covered, but because of an error this wasnt the case. RSA accepts its at fault for this.
When Mr L was pulled over by the police in September 2019, he says he called RSA. He
was told he didnt have cover and says missing information had been requested from him
without receiving a response.
RSA says it has no record of a call from Mr L around this time. It also comments that it
wasnt aware of the system error until December 2019. Meaning its representative wouldnt
have known about it and wouldnt have responded in the way Mr L says. It refers to the
complaint email it received from Mr L where he says:
telephoned yourselves to ask what had happened regarding my insurance to be told that I
had been sent some correspondence from you in which you had requested for more details
to enable the insurance being processed. I had not received anything from you by email,
post or phone call. This is when I was told on the phone that you had cancelled the policy
due to me not responding, but how could I if I had not received the details.
We asked Mr L if he had any records relating to the call he made to RSA in September
2019. He has supplied information from his mobile phone provider that shows call records
are only held for 12 months. This means no records are available to confirm this call took
place.
I dont dispute Mr Ls recollection. But I must also consider that there is no record of a call to
RSA at this time. Mr Ls recollection of the call is also at odds with RSAs position that its
representative was unaware of the system error in September 2019. At this time Mr L didnt
have a policy as his application hadnt progressed from the quote stage, due to the system
error.
RSA confirms the premium Mr L agreed online in early June 2019 was for £1,351.99. It says
this was to be paid in full at the time the policy was agreed. I understand the system error
meant the policy didnt go live and so no money was taken. This also meant no policy
documentation was provided to Mr L.
I have thought about these points. I dont dispute that it was RSAs system error that
prevented cover going live. But I think Mr L should reasonably have been alerted to a
problem nearer to the time in June 2019 when he agreed his policy. I say this because the
premium was agreed to be taken in one lump sum, not to be spread over smaller monthlypayments. £1,350.99 is not an insignificant amount of money. Id expect a reasonable
person to notice if this wasnt taken. Particularly as it was around two and a half months
before Mr L was pulled over by the police. I think the fact that this money shouldve been
taken, should reasonably have alerted him to a problem.
In addition, Mr L received no follow up communication or policy documentation. I think it
would have been reasonable for him to expect to receive this information promptly.
Certainly, within two and a half months of agreeing a car insurance policy. Had Mr L
contacted RSA in the two-and-a-half-month period before being stopped by the police, this
couldve been resolved without the problems described.
RSA says it wrote to Mr L in December 2019 to tell him about the system error. We have
been provided with templates of the initial letter and two follow up letters that were sent. RSA
cant provide the actual letters addressed to Mr L. However, he confirms these were
received.
The first letter says:
Were letting you know that weve identified an issue with our system when you took
out your policy with us for vehicle registration <registration>.
The problem was a policy was not created, although we understand you may have seen
a message on our website stating your policy purchase was successful.
WE NEED YOU TO CONTACT US TO PAY FOR YOUR POLICY
Dont worry, we appreciate this is our error, and therefore your cover will still apply as
long as you pay for your policy.
We need you to contact us within the next 14 days on <phone number> in order to pay
for your policy.
The next letter confirms a similar message saying cover will still apply if payment is made,
and that contact should be made with RSA. The final letter says that as no contact was
received it understood no cover was required.
RSA points to Mr Ls comment that he didnt contact it because he thought it would just tell
him he wasnt insured. I acknowledge that Mr L didnt think contacting the business would
prove helpful. But in the circumstances described I think its reasonable to expect contact to
have been made when RSAs first letter was received in December 2019. Particularly as Mr
L knew he was being prosecuted for having no insurance at this point. And he was aware of
the companys mistake.
Mr L says he took RSAs letter to a local police station in December 2019 and was told the
court process couldnt be halted. We asked if he had any records to confirm the information
he received. Unfortunately, this isnt available as he says this information was confirmed
orally.
Mr L has supplied an email he received from the court in January 2021. He asked if the
indemnity letter he had from RSA could stop proceedings. The court replied that it wasnt
possible to halt proceedings and Mr L could present his evidence in court.
RSA says that had Mr L contacted it in December 2019 when it first wrote to him to highlight
the problem, it couldve produced an indemnity letter then that would allow the court
proceedings to be halted at the time, as opposed to waiting over a year to do this. I note MrL says this wouldnt have been possible as his conversation at the local police proved.
Having considered all of this, its clear that RSA is at fault for Mr Ls car insurance cover not
going live. But I think its reasonable to expect Mr L to have been aware of a problem at an
earlier stage and prior to being stopped by the police. Had he contacted RSA to query why
£1,350 hadnt been taken, and that no policy information had been received, I think its
reasonable to expect the incident with the police couldve been avoided.
I dont dispute Mr Ls account of his conversation with the police when he received RSAs
letter in December 2019. But this isnt confirmation from the court that proceedings couldnt
be halted at this time if he had obtained proof of indemnity from RSA.
In summary I dont think RSA treated Mr L fairly due to its initial error in failing to provide
insurance cover. But it paid £300 in compensation to acknowledge this point which I think is
reasonable. I think RSAs view that court action could have been avoided had Mr L
contacted it sooner, is persuasive. So, I cant fairly ask it to pay more compensation to
resolve his complaint.
I said I was intending to not uphold this complaint.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
RSA responded to say it had no further information it wanted to provide. 
Mr L responded to say he only received one letter from RSA advising him to make contact. 
He says RSA couldnt have sent an indemnity letter on the day he was stopped by the police 
in September 2019, as it wasnt aware of the system error until December. He says it 
wouldnt be possible to stop court proceedings as the matter had been referred to the courts. 
Mr L says he doesnt think his experiences are being taken into consideration thoroughly. 
Mr L says RSA hadnt contact him for missing information as he was told when he phoned it, 
having been pulled over by the police. He disagrees that his recollection of this call is at 
odds with RSAs position that no policy had been set up. And questions why call recordings 
are not available. 
Mr L says he wouldnt have been able to pay the premium in one payment, he has always 
paid his car insurance monthly. He says he is, not particularly financially savvy and has 
had debt issues in the past. He says he does not pay attention to his bank balance, and this 
is something he has had to learn over time. Mr L says he doesnt count himself as a 
reasonable person, in relation to my comments that a reasonable person would notice when 
the insurance premium hadnt been taken.
Mr L says the template letters provided by RSA arent proof he received anything. But he 
does accept he received its first letter in December 2019. He concludes his email to say he 
finds it difficult to comprehend how long RSA took to notice the problem. He accepts that he 
should have noticed missing payments, but that this should only have been two payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With respect to the letters RSA says were sent, Mr L confirms he did receive its first letter. 
This informed him his policy had not been created due to an issue with the system. The letter told him it needed him to make contact to pay for his policy. The next letter repeated 
the message with the third letter saying it understood no cover was required as no contact 
had been made. I acknowledge Mr Ls comments that he didnt receive the second or third 
letter. But he agrees he did receive the first. This clearly told him his policy hadnt been set 
up and no payment had been taken due to RSAs system error. 
I agree an indemnity letter couldnt have been sent on the day of the police stop. But the 
section of the provisional decision Mr L refers to, explains that indemnity would have been 
provided retrospectively. Not that a letter wouldve been sent on that day.   
I acknowledge Mr Ls view that court proceedings couldnt be stopped. But he wasnt able to 
provide evidence of being told this from the police station he initially contacted. When he 
contacted the court, this was over a year after the police stop had happened. I dont think its 
been shown that proceedings couldnt have been halted if action had been taken earlier. 
RSA says it has no record of the call Mr L says he made at the time of the police stop. The 
missing information comment is from his recollection of this call. I disagree with his view that 
his comments arent at odds with RSAs position. Its been shown there was no policy set up 
at the time of the police stop. So, the questions he says were asked by RSAs representative 
dont make sense if there was no policy in place, and the system issue had yet to be 
identified. 
My understanding is that RSA doesnt accept a call was made to it at the time of the police 
stop. Not that it doesnt have a recording of this. 
I acknowledge Mr Ls recollection that he chose monthly payments when setting up his 
policy online. We did query this with RSA and it says its records confirm it was due to collect 
the full premium, had the system error not occurred. In either scenario its still the case that 
no premiums were taken from Mr Ls account for the two-month period prior to the police 
stop. 
If Mr L thought premiums were to be taken monthly, a problem would still be apparent from 
checking his bank account. Although I accept Mr Ls comments that he isnt financially 
savvy, I do think it reasonable to notice payments not being collected. Its also the case 
that he received no policy documentation or any other communication from RSA, despite 
having just agreed an insurance policy. 
Having considered all of this, Im not persuaded to change my provisional decision. RSA is 
responsible for the initial system error. But I think its compensation payment for £300 is fair 
to acknowledge this. I think RSAs view that court action could have been avoided is 
persuasive and so my provisional decision now becomes my final decision.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ls 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman