DRN-3353861
The complaint
Mr L has complained about Red Sands handling of a claim on his pet insurance policy.
Reference to Red Sands includes its agents which administer the policy on its behalf. 
What happened
In 2017 Mr L took out a lifetime pet policy for his dog, who Ill refer to as Z. In 2021 Zs vets 
said he needed some investigations into his chronic cough. Mr L asked Red Sands if it 
would authorise to cover the costs of those tests. Red Sands refused. It said that Z had had 
symptoms of the issue since before Mr L took out the policy. And, as the policy doesn't cover 
any pre-existing conditions, it declined Mr Ls claim. It also said that it was adding an 
exclusion to the policy for any claim associated with Zs respiratory system. 
Mr L brought his complaint about those things to us. One of our investigators looked into it. 
He didnt think it was fair for Red Sands to add the exclusion to the policy concerning the 
respiratory system; so he said Red Sands should remove that. But he thought it was 
reasonable for Red Sands to decline Mr Ls claim for a pre-existing condition.
Red Sands accepted our investigators assessment of the complaint. Mr L didnt so his 
complaint's been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint Mr Ls made a number of points. I've considered everything he's 
said and everything on file carefully. But in this decision I dont intend to address each and 
every issue raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key matters in order to 
arrive at a fair outcome. Further, Red Sands has already agreed to remove the exclusion for 
respiratory conditions, I think thats the right thing to do. So I don't intend to discuss that 
further here and will instead focus on the points still at issue.
Mr L took out his policy in 2017. At the time the policy information document, which 
summarises the key policy benefits and also its exclusions, made clear that the policy 
wouldnt cover any illness or condition that was present or showed signs or symptoms prior 
to the policy being taken out. The policy document itself then makes clear, on more than one 
occasion, that any condition for which Z showed symptoms prior to the policy beginning 
wouldnt be covered. Mr L renewed his policy each year and each year his policy wording 
confirmed that conditions or illnesses Z showed symptoms of before the policy began 
wouldnt be covered.
In 2021 Zs vets advised Mr L that Z needed investigations to find the cause of his chronic 
cough. At that time the vets estimated the investigations would cost around £1,200, Mr L 
asked Red Sands if it would pre-authorise the costs. Red Sands then looked at Zs medical 
history. It noted that vets had recorded that Z had a notable chest/respiratory issue and 
cough in October 2015. Vets had prescribed medicines for Z to help with that. Red Sands 
also noted that vets had referred to Zs cough in 2016 and 2017, before Mr L took the policy 
out and that there were regular further records of the cough up to 2019. At that point a new 
vet told Mr L that Zs medicines might not be helping his cough and suggested further 
investigations. The vet discontinued the medicines at that time but Mr L wasnt keen on 
further investigations. Although I note the same medicines were prescribed again early in 
2020.
In 2021 vets told Mr L that they would no longer prescribe antibiotics for Zs cough. They 
said he needed investigations to find out what the underlying cause of it was, otherwise they 
were essentially guessing. It was the costs of those investigations that Mr L wished to claim 
for. However, Red Sands said that as Z had had signs of his respiratory issue since 2015. 
And this indicated that the condition was pre-existing and so wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr Ls said that a cough can be a symptom of many conditions, for example bacterial chest 
infections, and that without the investigations the vets couldnt know what was causing the 
cough or if the incidents were linked. So he doesn't think it's fair to say that the issue was 
pre-existing. But, while I understand where hes coming from, I'm not persuaded that 
Red Sands did anything wrong.
Its clear from Zs vets notes that hes had an ongoing chest/respiratory issue over a number 
of years. And I note that before Mr L took out his policy vets prescribed medicines to help 
him with that on at least 13 occasions. I'm aware that in 2019 a new vet said that the 
medicines might not be helping and took Z off them; so it could be argued that Z didnt have 
an ongoing issue throughout that period. But I'm not persuaded by that argument. I've noted 
that at other times Zs medical history was given saying that hed been coughing and 
snoring his whole life. So, while Zs condition might have been intermittent and had periods 
where it didnt need any treatment for a time, it does appear that it had been present for a 
while and certainly since October 2015. And I've noted that vets have occasionally referred 
to any infection as being secondary to an unknown primary cause.
Further, after the vets completed their investigations, which I presume Mr L paid for himself, 
they diagnosed Z with a well-recognised condition that affects dogs of his breed. They said 
that condition causes a number of other issues for Z including congestive heart failure which 
causes a cough. I understand that Zs underlying condition is one that dogs like Z are born 
with although it can get worse over time. So, it seems more likely than not that Z would have 
been showing symptoms of this condition for some time. 
I understand that, as vets hadn't given Z a definitive diagnosis there was no way that Mr L 
could have known that Z had that condition at the time that he took his policy out in 2017. 
But, while vets hadnt yet arrived at a diagnosis at that time, they had been prescribing 
medicines for Z regularly at that point. And while the cough, could, possibly, have been an 
indication of something else, it seems more likely than not that in fact it was a symptom of 
the condition the vets diagnosed in 2021 and which Red Sands had already declined to pay 
for because hed been showing symptoms of it before Mr L took his policy out.
I'm aware Mr L doesn't think Red Sands policy is clear that it may look at his dogs previous 
medical history to decide that a future claim wouldnt be paid. But I think the policy is clear 
that it won't cover anything that might be pre-existing. The policy doesn't say that any 
condition had to have already been diagnosed. And, when he took his policy out in 2017, Z 
was regularly being prescribed medicine to treat an issue that hadnt yet been diagnosed. 
The fact that it was diagnosed much later doesn't mean that the cough wasnt a sign or symptom of the same condition. And in those circumstances I think it was reasonable for 
Red Sands to decline Mr Ls claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, as Red Sands has already removed the exclusion for claims 
relating to the respiratory system, I'm not going to instruct it to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman