DRN-2135315
The complaint
Mr E complained that Tandem Bank Limited was asking if he wanted paperless statements, 
even though hed recently told it he wanted to keep getting statements by post.
What happened
Mr E has a credit card with Tandem. Tandem wrote to him to say it was going to stop 
sending paper statements, although hed only recently asked it not to do that. He notified 
Tandem that hed already asked to continue getting paper statements, in August 2019. He 
said he didnt get a statement in September, and although he chased Tandem up twice, he 
never received any response to his complaint. Mr E said it was distressing not to be able to 
check the statement. He complained to us. 
Tandem said it had replied to Mr E at the end of August, and paid him £10. But when he 
complained to us, it offered £50 more. Mr E accepted that, but Tandem didnt pay promptly. 
So Mr E said he wanted to reopen his complaint. He was no longer happy with the offer. At 
this point, he wanted a further £25. Tandem wouldnt pay that. It said it had sent the 
September statement, and even if Mr E didnt get that, there were other ways for him to 
check that months transactions. 
When our investigator looked into this complaint, he found that Tandem had always been 
sending Mr E paper statements. He concluded that Septembers statement had just been 
lost in the post. Our investigator said he thought Tandem didnt need to pay for a missing 
statement, because that wasnt its fault. And he said that he wouldnt have recommended 
compensation for the mistake Tandem made when it said it would put Mr E on paperless 
statements, or when it didnt then respond to his further emails. So he thought Tandems 
offer of £50 for this more than made up for what had happened. 
Our investigator then looked at whether our service could consider Mr Es further complaint 
about the delay in paying compensation to Mr E. He said this is a highly technical question, 
but he thought we could consider this. However, he said that he wouldve chased this 
payment up for Mr E if he had wished. And because our investigator wouldnt have 
recommended compensation at all in this case, he didnt think he could ask Tandem to pay 
more than the £50 it had already offered. He thought that what it had offered was enough to 
provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
Mr E didnt agree. He said Tandem shouldnt have ignored him when he was chasing up to 
see what had happened to his complaint. And he said when Tandem didnt pay the 
additional compensation promptly, he had to send another nine emails over two months. He 
thought that also ought to merit some compensation. Tandem also replied, to say it had paid 
Mr E the extra £50 in April. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ve reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Im satisfied, from the evidence I have seen, that Mr E was never enrolled for paperless 
statements. His original complaint was that Tandem was writing to propose enrolling him for 
paperless statements again, fairly soon after hed opted out of that. Tandem has apologised 
for that, and paid Mr E £10 for the inconvenience. 
I understand that Mr E didnt get his September statement, and this may have made him 
think hed been opted out of paper statements. But Tandem has checked, and provided 
evidence that this particular statement was sent to Mr E. So Im also satisfied that his 
September statement was sent. I dont think that Mr E was ever opted out of paper 
statements against his will.
Mr E also says that because he didnt get his September statement, he wasnt able to check 
that months transactions. But I think that this statement was sent, I dont think its Tandems 
fault if Mr E didnt get it. And if it wasnt received, he couldve asked Tandem to go through 
these transactions on the phone, or send the statement again. 
Mr E also didnt receive Tandems response to his complaint, which was sent at the end of 
August. Tandem now says it sent this by email on 31 August. Mr E did get the £10 that 
Tandem paid then. 
Mr E now also complains that Tandem was ignoring his complaint. I dont think it has ignored 
it entirely. It told us it responded at the end of August. But it did then fail to respond to his 
chasing emails. I think it wouldve been better if Tandem had responded to those, and 
forwarded its earlier reply. 
I understand that it has taken quite some time to resolve this issue. But I dont think that this 
is entirely Tandems fault. It never stopped sending Mr E paper statements, and it sent a 
response to his initial complaint promptly. I do think its really unfortunate that Mr E doesnt 
seem to have received two critical items of correspondence  the emailed complaint 
response and the posted September paper statement. But I dont think thats Tandems fault.
Mr E has said that he thinks that Tandem should pay more, because hes had to continue to 
correspond with our service when Tandem didnt pay the settlement he was expecting 
promptly. As our investigator said, whether our service can actually make an award for this is 
a complex and technical issue. But I dont think I need to settle that here, because I wouldnt 
make any award for this point, even if I could do so. Ill explain why not.
I understand the settlement was paid by Tandem, and only a few days after when Mr E was 
expecting this payment. I also note that Mr E chose, when Tandem didnt pay within its 
deadline, not to take up our investigators offer to chase the payment , but instead to ask our 
service to investigate this complaint in full. Mr E is entitled to ask our service to investigate in 
full if he wishes. But I dont think its Tandems fault that this investigation then involved 
further correspondence by Mr E. 
Ive considered this complaint carefully, and I think that a payment of £50 which Tandem has 
made, in addition to its earlier payment of £10, does provide a fair and reasonable outcome 
to this complaint. So I dont think it has to pay more than that. Because Tandem made an increased offer when this complaint came to our service, I will 
uphold this complaint. I will award £60 in total, but as I understand this has already been 
paid, Ill allow Tandem to count the payment it has already made towards this award. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Tandem Bank Limited must pay Mr E £60 in compensation. Tandem 
can offset against that award any payment it has already made for this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman