DRN-2114327
The complaint
Mrs L has complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs decision to reject a claim 
she made for damage to an electric cable under her home. Mrs L made a claim under a joint 
home insurance policy she holds with Mr L. 
What happened
On 21 January 2020 Mrs L reported to her insurer RSA that her cooker had stopped 
working. It was established that there was an electrical issue with the wiring underneath her 
home. To access the electric cable and carry out repairs, a contractor would need to lift the 
flooring. Mrs L wanted to know if she had a valid claim. 
RSA accepts that it gave Mrs L conflicting information about her cover under Trace and 
Access and Accidental Damage over the next three days  as RSA couldnt confirm if the 
claim was covered until a cause of damage was established. It apologised and paid Mrs L 
£50 compensation. 
An electrician attended, and RSA had spoken with him. He said he wouldnt be able to 
confirm a cause of damage to the electric cable without lifting the flooring. 
Mrs L provided an estimate for repairs from the electrician. On 4 February 2020 Mrs L said 
this covered part of the works  but further works were to be carried out. On 5 February 
2020 RSA spoke to the electrician while at Mrs Ls home. The electrician couldnt identify the 
cause of damage to the cable. He said, its just blown. 
RSA considered if Mrs Ls claim would be covered under the Accidental Damage section of 
their policy. But RSA said it wasnt as it excludes damage caused by an electrical breakdown 
or failure. Mrs L said her cooker was working again after the repairs to the cable were 
carried out. 
RSA spoke to a second electrician carrying out the repairs on 5 February 2020. He said it 
was possible that earlier flooding had caused the damage, but there was no evidence of 
water to the property. 
So RSA considered if Mrs Ls claim would be covered under the flood peril. But its decision 
to decline Mrs Ls claim remained as it said there wasnt enough evidence to show an 
insurable event had occurred. 
Mrs L asked us to look at her complaint. She wants RSA to cover the costs to replace her 
flooring and for the replacement of the damaged electric cable. 
Our investigator spoke to one of the electricians who attended Mrs Ls home. She asked him 
if it was clear as to what the cause of damage was to the cable. The electrician said the 
cable had burnt out due to a power surge that had gone through a weak part of the cable. He 
said there were a number of different reasons as to why it happened. Water damage was 
one, or there may have been a small hole in the wiring and water got in. But he couldnt be 
sure and said he didnt know what the cause of damage was. 
The investigator didnt recommend Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld.
Mrs L didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the photos provided of underneath Mrs Ls home and of the burnt out cable. 
And Ive carefully considered everything Mrs L has written and said to us before and after 
the investigator issued her view. In summary Mrs L believes her claim is valid because it 
cant be proven as to what caused the damage to the cable. Mrs L says its possible that her 
claim could be covered under the peril of flood, fire or accidental damage  as all three 
occurred. 
Insurance policies are designed to provide cover for specific insured perils. Anything outside 
of these perils are uninsured losses. For any claim, there needs to be sufficient evidence to 
show that the claim is valid in line with the policy terms. 
I agree with Mrs L that RSA initially provided conflicting information to her as to how the 
Trace and Access section and Accidental Damage section of her policy works. For this 
error, I think RSAs compensation of £50 is fair. It seems lifting the flooring was unavoidable 
in order to carry out repairs to the cable. So until this was done  on or around 4 February 
2020  it wasnt possible for RSA to be able to say whether Mrs Ls claim was covered. 
Both RSA and our investigator discussed what the possible cause of damage to the electric 
cable could be with the electricians that carried out the repair works. I understand Mrs L 
believes RSA should have sent someone out to inspect her home. But I think it was 
reasonable for RSA to reach its decision following a discussion with two contractors that had 
visited Mrs Ls home, who had identified the damaged cable and carried out the repair 
works. 
In their opinion, the cause of damage couldnt clearly be attributed to an insured event. 
There were no other indicators of flood damage being the cause. The accidental damage 
section of Mr and Mrs Ls policy excludes damage caused by an electrical failure. There was 
burning to the cable at the point of damage. But that doesnt mean its a valid fire damage 
claim.
I agree with Mrs L that an event may not be 100% proven. But I would expect to see 
persuasive evidence from a contractor to say that more likely than not the damage was 
caused by a or b and to provide reasons as to why they formed that opinion. RSA and our 
investigator asked the electricians the relevant questions in order to consider whether Mrs 
Ls claim was valid. The information the electricians gave  in their professional opinion - 
wasnt enough to say that on balance it was more likely than not an insured event occurred.
Mrs L is very unhappy about RSAs handling of the clam and her complaints. Complaints 
handling isnt a regulated activity. This service can only investigate complaints about 
regulated activities as set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). But if for example 
we were upholding a complaint that an insurer had provided a poor service - and its handling 
of the complaint was ancillary and so added to the poor service - we could consider the 
overall impact. However, in this case, Mrs L didnt accept RSAs decision to decline her 
claim in February 2020 and brought her complaint to us then. I understand Mrs L will be very disappointed with my decision. But based on everything Ive 
seen, I think RSA dealt with her claim reasonably and its decision to reject it was fair and in 
line with the policy. So Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman