DRN-2653039
The complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked and closed his account. And registered 
a CIFAS marker against his name. CIFAS is the UKs fraud alert service.
What happened
Mr J had a basic bank account with Barclays.
On 18 September 2019, an international faster payment for just over £11,800 was paid into 
Mr Js account. At the time his balance was £7.54. Following this Mr J made three payments 
from his account including a £500 payment to a solicitor to pay for his visa application. 
On 19 September 2019, Mr J contacted Barclays to report his bank card as lost. Barclays 
sent Mr J a replacement card. On 27 September 2019, another international faster payment 
for just over £11,000 was paid in Mr Js account. Following this payment Barclays sent Mr J 
a text message asking him to get in touch so that they could speak to him about the two 
payments. Mr J told Barclays he didnt know anything about the money that had been paid 
into his account. He explained that he thought the bank had made a mistake, that he needed 
to pay some important bills, so hed used some of the funds. He said he intended to pay 
back the money hed used. 
On 4 October 2019, Barclays were contacted by the banks from which the payments had 
been made. They said that their customers had been the victims of fraud, their emails had 
been hacked and the funds had been diverted to Mr Js account. Barclays placed restrictions 
on Mr Js account whilst it investigated what had happened. 
Barclays didnt accept Mr Js explanation about the payments and closed his account 
immediately. It also placed a CIFAS marker against his name. Mr J complained to Barclays 
and said that hed been unable to open a bank account due to the marker and his mental 
health had suffered. 
Mr J referred the matter to this service where one of our investigators considered it. The 
investigator asked Mr J some more questions about what had happened. He told the 
investigator hed been in hospital between 2 and 5 September 2019 and believed that his 
wallet containing his bank card had been lost/stolen. He told the investigator that he had 
never given his card to anyone and hadnt disclosed his PIN. He later told the investigator 
that his wallet had also contained his PIN. And that he didnt know anything about the money 
which had been paid into his account  although he did accept, hed spent some of the 
money.
The investigator didnt think the bank had done anything wrong in taking the actions it did. 
On balance, she considered that Mr J was most likely aware of the nature of the payments 
paid into his account, so she said the bank didnt have to remove the CIFAS marker. Mr J 
didnt accept the investigators conclusions, he maintained hed been the victim of fraud, and 
hed suffered a great deal of trouble and upset.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first of all with the banks decision to block and review Mr Js account whilst it 
investigated the concerns expressed to it by the other banks. Having looked at all the 
evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances for Barclays to have 
acted in the way that it did. Barclays has explained that this was its standard procedure and 
it was acting in line with its legal and regulatory obligations. And I accept that it was. Thats 
in line with what most banks would do in the same situation, and it enabled Barclays to 
consider how best to react to the reports it had received from the other banks. So, I cant say 
the bank did anything wrong here.
Im satisfied that the funds paid into Mr Js account were fraudulent  in the sense that the 
holders of the accounts from which they were drawn didnt authorise them. Their own banks 
investigated them before reaching that conclusion and contacting Barclays. Of itself 
however, that doesnt mean that Mr J was involved or knew about them; its possible to 
make payments to someones bank account without their knowledge and having only the 
account number and sort code.
Before placing a fraud marker against Mr Js name, Barclays needed to have a reasonable 
belief that a financial crime had been committed and that the evidence was such that the 
matter could be reported to the police. A suspicion or concern isnt enough. So, Ive looked 
at whether Barclays was fair to apply the marker, based on the evidence it had and the 
investigation it carried out, and what the rules say about applying such markers. 
Mr J told Barclays and the investigator he didnt know anything about how the two fraudulent 
payments, amounting to just under £23,000 in total, came to be paid into his account. He 
has suggested that hes been the victim of fraud and that an unknown third party got hold of 
his bank account details as a result of him losing his wallet and paid the money into his 
account. 
Ive thought carefully about what hes said. Having done so I think its most unlikely that an 
unknown third party would arrange to make two payments into Mr Js account nine days 
apart unless they were confident that they would be able to withdraw the money or transfer 
the funds to another account from which they could withdraw it. 
Mr J has told us that he was aware of the funds coming into his account. And thought it 
might be a mistake. But I havent seen any evidence that he alerted the bank about his 
concerns. Instead, I can see that Mr J reported his bank card as lost on 19 September after 
the fraudulent payment of £11,844.0 had hit his account. I cant see he took this opportunity 
to tell the bank about the unrecognised large credit coming into his account, which I think 
wouldve been a reasonable course of action for him to take, especially if he thought hed 
fallen victim to fraudsters and his account had been compromised as hes suggested.  
Mr J has consistently said he knows nothing about the fraudulent payments. Whilst hes 
acknowledged the money didnt belong to him, not only did make a payment for £500 to his 
solicitor using the funds, but he also spent around £1,500 using the replacement bank card 
Barclays sent to him after he reported his card as lost. Mr J hasnt disputed any of these 
transactions, which suggests to me he made them himself. So, hes spent money which he 
knew didnt belong to him.Ive also kept in mind that Mr J says he thinks he lost his wallet containing his bank card 
when he was in hospital between 2 and 5 September 2019. But I dont think its likely that an 
unknown third party would steal Mr Js wallet and then wait two weeks to pay fraudulent 
funds into his account. Then wait another nine days before doing the same again. I dont 
think an unknown third party would run the risk of paying money into Mr Js account on two 
separate occasions over a period of nine days (longer if I accept Mr Js submissions), during 
which time Mr J may have discovered his account had been compromised.  
I also cant see how an unknown third party wouldve been able to access the funds that 
were paid into Mr Js account given hed reported his bank card as lost on 19 September 
2019, so it was cancelled. And Mr J was still in possession of his replacement card.
Even if I accept an unknown third party gained possession of Mr Js bank cards, Ive kept in 
mind that whilst some of the information needed to make the payments couldve been taken 
from Mr Js card, it didnt contain enough information for the payments to be made into his 
account from overseas, for example Mr Js address. And Ive not seen any evidence for how 
an unknown third party could obtain the relevant details needed for not one but two 
payments which were made into Mr Js account. Based on the evidence Ive seen, it appears 
only Mr J wouldve been able to do this. 
When I weigh everything up, Im not persuaded by Mr Js version of events that he knows 
nothing about the fraudulent funds which were paid into his account in September 2019. 
Taking everything into account even if Mr J didnt arrange for the funds to be paid into his 
account himself, then I think he allowed someone else to do so. 
In the circumstances, I think there wouldve been good grounds to report the events here to 
the police to investigate, and that Barclays was therefore justified in placing a CIFAS marker 
against Mr Js name. I think it more likely than not that Mr J knew rather more about the 
account activity than hes told the bank or this service. So, I wont be asking Barclays to 
remove the fraud marker.
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Js account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case, 
Barclays closed Mr Js account immediately. In my view that was reasonable, given the 
concerns the bank had about how Mr J was operating his account.  And Im satisfied it did so 
in line with the terms and relevant regulations. So, whilst appreciate this caused him trouble 
and upset, I cant say Barclays have treated him unfairly when it decided to close his 
account without notice.
Finally, I note that in response to the investigators view, Mr J says that he is a victim of 
discrimination by Barclays. And the bank only blocked and closed his accounts on the 
grounds of his race. But while I appreciate this is his perspective, it is not my role to decide 
whether discrimination has taken place as a matter of law  only the courts have the power 
to decide this. I have, however, considered the relevant law in relation to what Mr J has said 
when deciding what I think is the fair and reasonable outcome. Part of this has meant 
considering the provisions of The Equality Act 2010 (The Act). The Act describes race as a protected characteristic and sets out that a person (A) 
discriminates against another (B) if, because of a protected characteristic, A treats B less 
favourably than A would treat others. So, in considering whether Mr J has been unlawfully 
discriminated against, I need to determine whether there is evidence to suggest that he was 
treated less favourably on account of his race. But after looking at all the evidence, Ive not 
seen anything to suggest that this was the case. So, I havent found that Barclays behaviour 
was improper when it decided to block and close his accounts.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman