DRN-4062174
The complaint
Mr T complains that Retail Money Market Ltd (RateSetter) unfairly reduced his interest 
returns on his crowdfunding investments and didnt return any of this following a third party 
(TP) acquiring the platforms loan portfolio. He also complains that RateSetter delayed in 
returning his money following the sale. 
What happened
RateSetter is a peer-to-peer crowdfunding platform which was acquired by TP in September
2020. However, for ease, I shall refer to both parties separately throughout this decision.
RateSetter provided several types of investment accounts in which investors could lend
money to third party individuals and/or businesses in return for interest. While each of these
accounts had a set Going Rate - a market interest rate determined by RateSetter -
investors could also decide to set their own target interest rates. The actual interest earned
was based upon the loan contracts contained within an investors account.
RateSetter operated a contingency fund called the Provision Fund. The Provision Fund
was used to automatically reimburse investors their outstanding capital and interest in the
event this wasnt paid by a borrower. This in effect mutualised risk for all investors by
diversifying their exposure across the entire loan portfolio. Although payments from the
Provision Fund werent guaranteed, payments would be made provided there were sufficient
funds available in it.
The adequacy of the Provision Fund was expressed by the Interest Coverage Ratio -
calculated by dividing the size of the Provision Fund by the Expected Future Losses (the
total amount of missed and unrecovered borrower repayments expected over the lifetime of
active loans). RateSetter also published a Capital Coverage Ratio - calculated by adding
the size of the Provision Fund and all the future interest from active loans and then dividing
by the Expected Future Losses.
Historically, the Provision Fund was funded through borrowers as part of their loan fees and
not by investors. But RateSetter says that, due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, it
saw a decrease in new lending and in turn, a decrease in borrower fees going into the
Provision Fund. RateSetter has told us that in April 2020 the Interest Coverage Ratio had
dropped below 74% and in May 2020, in response to this, it introduced a Stabilisation
Period  a 50% reduction to the interest rate investors received on their investments.
RateSetter says that was introduced to replenish the Provision Fund. It also says the Capital 
Coverage Ratio was around 154% at the time and so a capital rate reduction wasnt
necessary. RateSetter says this was all implemented in line with the terms of the investment.
TP acquired RateSetter in September 2020, but the entire loan portfolio remained with
RateSetter. RateSetter explained that the Interest Coverage Ratio had returned above
100% by December 2020 and the Stabilisation Period ended in January 2021. In February
2021 RateSetter announced that TP was acquiring the entire loan portfolio which then
completed in April 2021. As a result, investors received their capital back, plus any interest
due.
Following the sale of his investments to TP, Mr T expected his withdrawal from his holding 
account to be actioned within 24 hours on 2 April 2021. However, due to a technical issue 
with RateSetters payment provider, his funds were not released to him until 8 April 2021.
Mr T complained to RateSetter in June 2021 as he was unhappy with this delay. He said 
hed invested a considerable amount of his savings and was worried when his money was 
not returned to him. He also complained that it was unfair for TP to retain the entire Provision 
Fund considering he and other investors had partly financed it through halving their interest 
payments during the Stabilisation Period. Mr T said hed expect RateSetter to pay him not 
only his capital but also the interest hed missed out on during the Stabilisation Period, 
considering he bore all the risk during the Stabilisation Period.
RateSetter considered Mr Ts complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, it said:
It had provided updates to Mr T explaining that the withdrawal was due to a technical 
processing issue outside of its control.
It apologised for the delay and explained it had addressed the issue as a priority and 
his withdrawal was processed as soon as possible.
Since the Covid-19 pandemic struck, it had focused on strengthening the Provision 
Fund and protecting all investors equally.
The interest rate reduction introduced in May 2020 was a necessary part of ensuring 
that all investors were fully protected  and a necessary step towards the outcome of 
investors getting their money back in full in April 2021.
Had it not increased its Provision Fund, investor capital would have been at risk.
The Provision Fund went with the loans as TP took on the risk. 
Mr T remained unhappy with RateSetters response and so he referred his complaint to
this Service for an independent review.
An investigator at this Service looked into Mr Ts concerns and originally upheld the
complaint but a different investigator later revised the view based upon new information 
provided by RateSetter. In summary, she said:
RateSetter experienced an issue with a third-party payment provider that effected its 
ability to honour its agreement with Mr T and she didnt think it was reasonable for 
RateSetter to simply disclaim its responsibility.
Mr Ts relationship was with RateSetter and not the third-party payment provider and 
so she felt RateSetter had a duty in the Investor Terms to action his withdrawal 
request by the next working day, unless additional checks were required.
As no additional checks were required, this meant Mr T should have received his 
funds by no later than 5 April 2021.
So RateSetter ought to put right any losses resulting from the technical error.
She was satisfied that RateSetters Investor Terms gave it a broad discretion to 
introduce the Stabilisation Period.
She was persuaded that RateSetters decision to implement the Stabilisation Period 
was fair, and consistent with maintaining the Interest Coverage Rate above 100% to 
ensure continued mutualisation of risk across the loan portfolio.
She also commented on RateSetters decision to close Mr Ts account following the 
sale of the entire loan portfolio to TP. She felt RateSetter had the power to do so 
under the Investor Terms and she felt that, by receiving a return of his capital and 
interest accrued up to that point, Mr T had received what he was entitled to.
RateSetter had accepted that it delayed providing all available evidence for the 
complaint and had it not done so, the investigator wouldnt have reached the same 
outcome as she did in her initial opinion. She said RateSetter had offered £250 in recognition for the unnecessary delay caused and any distress and inconvenience 
caused by this, which she felt was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
RateSetter accepted the investigators findings and calculated the loss of interest during the 
withdrawal delay to be £9.71 and so agreed to pay Mr T a total of £260 in resolution of his 
complaint.
Mr T didnt accept the investigators findings. In summary, he said:
He didnt accept that it was fair for his interest to have been halved during the 
Stabilisation Period and it should have been returned to him when RateSetter sold 
his investments to TP.
He did however, accept what the investigator had said about the delay in withdrawing 
his funds and would accept a calculation of the lost interest during that delay to be 
returned to him. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, Ive taken into account 
the relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms, such as RateSetter, are required to 
follow. These are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance. The FCA Principles 
for Business (PRIN) are a general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under 
the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G) The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. 
The most relevant principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
RateSetter was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligation here is:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
Withdrawal delay
Mr T is unhappy with the amount of time it took for RateSetter to complete his withdrawal 
request following the sale of his investments to TP.
Having reviewed the Investor Terms I agree with the investigator that his funds should have 
been paid to him sooner than they were. The Investor Terms said:
8.1 You can transfer funds from your holding account into your Nominated Bank 
Account by choosing one of the withdrawal options in your RateSetter account. 
Withdrawals are normally credited to your Nominated Bank Account by the end of the 
next working day but may be delayed up to 5 working days in cases where additional 
fraud or identity checks are required, for example when you make your first 
withdrawal.Ive not been made aware of any additional checks being required for Mr Ts payment and so 
it follows that he ought to have received his funds by no later than 5 April 2021, however, he 
didnt these until three days later. 
I appreciate RateSetter has said that the issue was with its elected payment provider, 
however, I dont think it would be fair for Mr T to be disadvantaged because of this. 
Ultimately, Mr T had a relationship with RateSetter and he had no say on who would be 
elected to make the payment to him. Rightly so, Mr T expected the payment to be made to 
him by no later than the next working day and so I agree that RateSetter should compensate 
him for the delay. 
Fairness of the implementation of the Stabilisation Period
RateSetter has relied upon the following term which was in its Investor Terms to introduce 
the Stabilisation Period:
19.1. If at any time, RateSetter reasonably believes the Provision Fund does not
have sufficient funds (including expected future inflows) to cover current or expected
borrower defaults, RateSetter may implement a Stabilisation Period.
While I think the term gave RateSetter a broad discretion to introduce the Stabilisation
Period, I must also consider whether in doing so RateSetter treated Mr T fairly and acted
with his best interests in mind.
RateSetter has explained that that prior to April 2020, the Interest Coverage Ratio was and
had only ever been above 100% and that the objective  as disclosed to investors  was to
maintain it to this level. The Provision Fund Policy on RateSetters website explained:
Future economic uncertainty is currently not factored into the Expected Future Loss
calculation but this is taken into account by managing the Interest Coverage Ratio to
a figure greater than 100%.
Its also clear that the Provision Fund was a vital mechanism in ensuring mutualisation of risk
across the loan portfolio. And if this was not sufficiently maintained, investors would likely be
exposed to risk beyond that which theyd accepted when agreeing to invest on a platform
that mutualised risk across the whole loan portfolio. The Provision Fund policy explained:
The Provision Fund exists to protect RateSetter investors. It protects all investors
equally and so has the effect of mutualising the risk for all investors by diversifying
their exposure across the whole loan portfolio. This means that it is the performance
of the whole loan portfolio that matters for RateSetter investors.
RateSetter has also explained that expected future losses were estimated each month-end
by RateSetter's Executive Credit Committee, based on historic losses in the portfolio as well
as independent macroeconomic forecasts produced by Oxford Economics. And that the
impact of Covid-19 in March 2020 caused a sharp spike in expected future losses which,
when tested at month end April 2020, caused the Interest Coverage Ratio to drop to 74%. It
was this level of drop in the Interest Coverage Ratio which RateSetter says meant it was
necessary to implement the Stabilisation Period  ensuring investors were protected equally
and that their risk was fully mutualised.
Understandably, there was a lot of uncertainty during the Covid-19 pandemic, and I think it
would be unfair to scrutinise a firms decision taken during this time where its clear it has
taken precautionary steps having relied upon independent forecasts. Its also apparent from
the information provided that RateSetter had lengthy discussions regarding what was thebest action to take in these circumstances.
So, on balance, Im persuaded RateSetters decision to implement the Stabilisation Period
was fair, as it was consistent with the objective of maintaining the Interest Coverage Rate
above 100% - ensuring continued mutualisation of risk across the loan portfolio - and
allowing investors to continue to benefit from protection whilst still receiving interest (albeit
less than expected) during a period of economic uncertainty. Im also are satisfied the
Provision Fund shortfall estimates were reasonably assessed, as RateSetter considered
relevant factors from independent sources. Its also important to consider these decisions
were made in unprecedented circumstances and it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to
consider these with the benefit of hindsight.
The price received for the loan portfolio
I understand Mr T believes he ought to have received more from the loan portfolio sale 
essentially receiving more than a par value for his loans and receiving a percentage of the
funds available in the Provision Fund which he sacrificed in interest during the Stabilisation
Period. Ive thought very carefully about this, however I think RateSetters actions were fair
and in line with the terms on which the investment was made. Ill explain why.
The Investor Terms explained that:
By agreeing to these Terms, youre appointing RateSetter to act as your agent in all
matters relating to the origination, negotiation, administration and management of
your loans. This includes:
[]
negotiating and executing on your behalf any agreements relating to your loans;
[]
entering into any transfer arrangements on your behalf in order to transfer the benefit
of any loans (or part thereof) to the Provision Fund, another RateSetter investor,
RateSetter itself or a third party; and
anything else RateSetter reasonably considers necessary to manage your loans,
including terminating those loans.
Therefore, RateSetter had the power to make the sale on Mr Ts behalf and transfer the
arrangements  including the Provision Fund  to TP. So the sale and transfer was a
legitimate exercise of the rights given to RateSetter by Mr T when he invested. 
RateSetter was also able to close Mr Ts account with two months notice under the Investor 
Terms:
"16.1 We can end our agreement with you, close or suspend your RateSetter
account and stop providing any services by giving you at least two months' notice."
Ive also considered how RateSetter explained how the Provision Fund would operate, the
circumstances in which Mr T has a call on it and what he was entitled to receive on
withdrawing his investment.
The Provision Fund Policy provides clarity as to how the fund would operate. This explains:
If a borrower misses a repayment, the Provision Fund automatically reimburses the
outstanding capital and interest to the investor.
[]
These assets are ring-fenced from the other assets of RateSetter. The Provision
Funds assets can be used only to reimburse RateSetter investors and to cover the
operational costs of the Provision Fund[]
If the Provision Fund accumulates a surplus relative to losses, this surplus ultimately
belongs to RateSetter.
From this, its clear from this that the Provision Fund is a separate, ring-fenced, sum of
money on which Mr T would only have a call to it in the event of borrower default. It would
appear that investors had no right to a return from the Provision fund in any other
circumstances. This was also explained to Mr T in the Investor Terms:
10. The Provision Fund
10.1 To provide protection to RateSetter investors, RateSetter sets aside funds as a
provision against borrower defaults for the benefit of all RateSetter investors (the
Provision Fund).
[]
10.3 If a payment becomes due under the terms of any of your loans and is not paid 
by the borrower, the Provision Fund will automatically make payment to you on the
borrowers behalf, provided it has the funds to do so.
Theres also nothing in the Investor Terms which suggested investors had a call on the fund
if, at the point of withdrawal from the investment, it was estimated to be more than was
required to provide protection. So Im persuaded Mr T cannot have invested with that
expectation. Rather, the Investor Terms explained that in the event of withdrawing from the
investment, an investor would only ever receive their capital and the interest which had
accrued. Ive seen nothing in the terms which suggests the amount paid to those
withdrawing from the investment should be adjusted by reference to the level of protection
afforded by the Provision Fund. So as Mr T was essentially withdrawing from his
investment, I dont think the fact that he was withdrawing by virtue of the loan portfolio sale
changed anything contractually and that by him getting a return of capital and interest
accrued meant he received what he was entitled to as per the terms of the investment.
Having considered all of the above, Im satisfied Mr T was only entitled to money from the
fund in the event of a default and, on withdrawing, was only entitled to a return of capital and
accrued interest. Therefore, Mr T received what he was entitled to under the terms when
RateSetter sold the loan portfolio to TP. Im also satisfied that the Provision Fund Policy
made it clear the Provision Fund was intended to protect investors and so once Mr T
withdrew as an investor Im satisfied he no longer had a right to it.
Determining what Mr T was entitled to under the terms of the investment is the starting
point when scrutinising the price he received for his loans. However, Ive also considered
whether its fair and reasonable to say Mr T should have received more than he was
entitled to as per the terms of the investment, given the position with the Provision Fund at
the time of the sale.
At the point in which Mr T withdrew from his investment by way of the loan portfolio sale,
he was no longer exposed to any risk. This risk was transferred to TP and so I dont think it
would be fair for him to benefit from any protection the Provision Fund provided. The
Provision Fund is part of the package which TP receives when it purchased the loan portfolio
and aims to protect the current investor (TP) against default.
The Provision Fund may be bigger than it would have been, had the interest rate reduction
not been applied during the Stabilisation Period, but Im not persuaded that meant Mr T
should have been paid something in addition to what he was contractually obliged to
receive up until the point of exiting from the investment. Rather, Im persuaded that the
period of reduced interest, which effectively reflected the increased default risk during a
period of economic uncertainty, was simply part of the overall risk of the proposition which isrightly reflected in the returns paid. I say this as there was always a risk that borrower fees
would not be adequate to fund the level of protection needed, meaning either defaults would
hit investors due to inadequate cover or returns would be reduced in order to ensure
adequate cover. This was all clearly explained to Mr T in the Investor Terms and Im
persuaded he invested on the basis that he was aware his interest may be reduced. As
such, receiving his capital back and some interest seems to be a fair reflection of how the
investment has performed during the Covid-19 pandemic and up until the point in which the
loan portfolio was sold.
Id also consider that any additional payment made to Mr T, to reflect the value of the
Provision Fund at the point of the loan portfolio being sold, would be effectively putting him in
a position is if the Covid-19 pandemic hadnt happened. As such, I dont think it would be fair
to award redress for reduced returns arising from inherent risks in the investment during this
period.
I understand Mr T doesnt think TP should benefit from the protection the Provision Fund
provides beyond that which investors contributed towards during the Stabilisation Period.
Whilst estimations at the point of the loan portfolio sale suggested that the Provision Fund
offered more than needed for capital protection, I dont think this means all or part of the
interest investors sacrificed during the Stabilisation Period ought fairly be refunded. As Ive
explained, the Interest Coverage Ratio is the level of cover against capital and future interest
losses (i.e. all losses) whereas the Capital Coverage Ratio is the level of cover against
capital losses only (i.e. it accounts for the future interest payable when considering the
degree of coverage). I think its difficult, against that background, to say it was fair for TP to
pay more than par value when the loan portfolio being purchased was estimated to have an
Interest Coverage Ratio of around 100%. I think a more reasonable interpretation is that the
loan portfolio was adequately insured, and so paying par value is a fair and reasonable
reflection of that. I say this as, if the Provision Fund offered less protection, the value of loan
portfolio would be arguably worth less, as there would be no buffer to protect TP from future
economic changes which increase the risk of default.
RateSetter says the offer of par value for investors loans and accrued interest was fair
given that it was reasonable to expect TP to receive the same level of interest on the
portfolio that the current owners (i.e. the old investors) were earning. I think this is a valid
point considering that the risk TP has taken on in purchasing the loan portfolio hasnt
changed and so it follows that the reward for doing so should remain the same as what
investors were receiving.
The loan portfolio purchase resulted in investors getting liquidity of capital and
interest to cover a two month notice period, in a timely and orderly way during a period of
economic uncertainty. So Im persuaded the price Mr T received was fair and
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Distress and inconvenience
RateSetter has made an offer of £250 to recognise the inconvenience caused to Mr T by its
delay in providing all available evidence for the complaint. Whilst I've not found a failing in
terms of introducing the stabilisation period, the sale to TP or the delay in withdrawing, I
think this offer fairly reflects the distress or inconvenience caused to him by not providing this
information at the earliest opportunity. 
I understand Mr T had invested a substantial amount of his savings on the platform and I can 
appreciate the delay in returning his funds would have caused him some concern. However, 
I think this amount offered fairly reflects this as Im also aware that RateSetter did update Mr 
T on the issue throughout the delay.Putting things right
RateSetter has made an offer of £250 to recognise the inconvenience caused to Mr T by its 
delay in providing all available evidence for the complaint and I think this offer fairly reflects 
the distress or inconvenience caused to him by not providing this information at the earliest 
opportunity, as well as for any distress or inconvenience caused by delaying his withdrawal 
payment.
RateSetter should also pay Mr T 8% simple interest on the withdrawal amount from 5 April 
2021 (which is one working day following on the from the request) until 8 April 2021 (when 
the money arrived with Mr T). 
I understand RateSetter has calculated Mr Ts loss to be around £10, however, its not clear 
how it calculated this amount. So RateSetter should make the calculation in line with my 
instructions and provide Mr T with details of its calculation in a clear, simple format.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct Retail Money Market Ltd and I 
award the compensation Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman