DRN-3770013
The complaint
Mr K complains that Bluestone Mortgages Limited wouldnt offer him a new interest rate on 
his mortgage unless he made an application via a mortgage broker. He wants it to accept an 
application from him directly.
What happened
Mr K has a mortgage with Bluestone. In 2021, he got in touch with Bluestone to ask for a 
new interest rate. Bluestone told him it had rates available but that it didnt accept 
applications from customers directly and he would need to go via a mortgage broker.
Mr K complained. He didnt think it was fair that Bluestone wouldnt give him a rate  as it 
had in 2017 on another mortgage  and that its refusal was costing him around £485 per 
month. He said that meant it was exploiting him. And he said that its staff had been rude to 
him on the phone.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. He said it wasnt unreasonable 
that Bluestone didnt accept direct applications. That was the same for all its customers, so it 
wasnt treating Mr K unfairly. Mr K asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no obligation on a mortgage lender to offer new preferential rates to existing 
customers. Bluestone doesnt offer new interest rates to existing customers, and its not 
acting unfairly in doing so  even if other lenders do offer rates to their customers. But it will 
consider an application for a re-mortgage, if made through a broker. It doesnt consider 
applications direct. Its entitled to act in this way. Many lenders do accept applications from 
customers direct, but some specialist lenders  such as Bluestone  are intermediary only 
and thats a permissible business model.
Im satisfied that Bluestone did treat Mr Ks enquiry fairly. It told him that it couldnt offer him 
a new interest rate on his existing mortgage, but that he could apply for a re-mortgage 
through a broker. That was correct. And as Ive said, its entitled to operate in this way, and it 
applies the same policies to all customers. So Mr K wasnt treated unfairly. I understand 
Mr K wanted to take a new interest rate on his existing mortgage  but thats not something 
Bluestone makes available, and its not obliged to do so.
Ive not seen any reason why Mr K couldnt have made an application via a mortgage broker 
in 2021 once Bluestone told him thats what he would need to do  while some brokers 
charge for their services, others operate on commission and dont charge fees to their 
customers. Bluestone includes information about brokers it operates through on its website. 
Until an application is made, it cant be known whether Bluestone would grant it or not.
Mr K has referred to a recent High Court decision involving another lender. But I dont think 
that case is relevant to this complaint  the case was about the time limits for bringing a 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and what we can take into account when 
considering a complaint. Theres no suggestion Mr Ks complaint is out of time, so that case 
isnt relevant here.
I also dont think what happened in 2017 in respect of another mortgage is relevant  that 
was some years ago, and Bluestone doesnt have to offer something now that it offered in 
the past. Im satisfied Mr K was given correct information about the position in 2021 when he 
contacted Bluestone. 
Ive also listened to Mr Ks calls with Bluestone. Its clear he was very unhappy with the 
situation. And the adviser he spoke to was quite direct with him. But I dont think that 
amounted to rudeness or unacceptable behaviour, and so I dont uphold this part of the 
complaint either. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman