DRN-3738070
The complaint
Mr I complains about the settlement made by esure Insurance Limited on a car insurance 
claim.
What happened
Mr I insured his car with esure. The car was vandalised and Mr I made a claim. esure 
accepted the claim and arranged for the car to be inspected. 
This inspection concluded that the damage caused by the vandals mean the car should be 
written off. esure made an offer of £2,808 (less the policy excess) to settle the claim. It said 
the market value of the car was £4,808 but that there was damage to the car from before the 
vandalism and made a deduction of £2,000 from the market value. 
Mr I was unhappy with this offer and complained to esure. When it rejected his complaint, he 
referred it to our service. Our investigator thought esures offer was reasonable. Mr I didnt 
accept this, so his complaint has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two elements to the offer made by esure, those being the original value it 
calculated, in effect the base value used as a starting point, and then the deduction made for 
pre-existing damage. My starting point in my considerations is what the policy terms and 
conditions say about how claims will be settled. These say:
We wont pay more than the market value of your car at the time of the loss, less the total 
excess payable.
The market value is defined as the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your 
car for on the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of the 
value is based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar age, condition and 
mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value is based on research from motor trade 
guides including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP. This may not be the price you paid when you 
purchased the car.
With this in mind, Ill consider the two elements of the offer separately.
The base value
Ive seen evidence that in reaching the base value of £4,808, esure checked a number of 
motor trade guide tools. These tools give likely selling prices for cars of similar age, mileage 
and specification, based on nationwide research. These gave values for Mr Is car between 
£4,640 and £5,040. I havent seen anything to suggest these valuations were based on 
incorrect or inaccurate information about Mr Is car. Theres also nothing to indicate to me 
that esure should have disregarded any of these values as too high or too low.
Where an offer is made which is within the range of the values obtained from valuation tools 
(once any outliers have been excluded), wed usually say that the value offered is fair. 
esures base value is within the range of the values obtained. I havent seen anything which 
persuades me that esures base value of £4,808 was unreasonable.
The deduction
esure deducted £2,000 from the market value it had calculated for Mr Is car. It said that 
there was extensive damage to the car which had been present before the vandalism and 
which had an effect on the value of his car. 
Our services general approach to this is that its fair for an insurer to make deductions from 
the settlement if pre-incident damage would have affected the market value of the car. In 
deciding whether thats the case, Ive considered the effect of pre-incident damage on the 
market value of Mr Is car, taking into account its age and the extent of that pre-existing 
damage.
Im satisfied that the policy definition of market value does take pre-existing damage into 
account, as it references that the value is based, in part, on cars of a similar condition. Its 
fair to say pre-existing damage would have an impact on the pre-loss value of a car.
Mr Is car was over 13 years old at the time of the claim. I think it would reasonably be 
expected there may be some age related wear and tear damage to the car, and it wouldnt 
be reasonable to make a deduction for this.
esures provided photographs of the car from when it was inspected. These show a number 
of different panels on the car have noticeable dents or other marks on them which the 
inspection didnt consider to be consistent with vandalism but more indicative of impact 
damage  in other words that damage occurred separately. It considered the cost of 
repairing that damage alone would render it uneconomical to repair, regardless of the 
vandalism, and that the necessary repairs would cost in excess of £4,000. It therefore 
considered a deduction of £2,000 from the market value it had calculated to be fair.
In support of its position, esure has referred to Google Street View images showing Mr Is 
car which do appear to show that areas of damage which were seen at the time of the 
inspection after the vandalism were present when the Street View image was taken, several 
months before the vandalism occurred. 
Mr I says that after the Google Street View images were taken, but before the vandalism 
occurred, hed had repairs carried out to the car. However, he hasnt provided any evidence 
of those repairs or details of the repairs carried out. Im satisfied from looking at the images 
from Google Street View and the photos taken post-vandalism that it was reasonable for 
esure to conclude that there was pre-existing damage to the car which was unrelated to the 
vandalism. The images show the same damage to the same parts of the car. 
In any case, Im satisfied that even without the pre-loss images, it would still be reasonable 
for esure to say that there was pre-existing damage, based on the report from the inspection 
of the vehicle carried out after the vandalism. This identified areas of the car where the 
damage wasnt consistent with vandalism. Nothing has been provided to refute that 
conclusion.
Im also satisfied that the images show damage which goes beyond age related wear and 
tear, and so a deduction for the cost of repairing this is fair in the circumstances. There are 
large and noticeable dents to different panels, and in my opinion these are much more than 
paint chips or minor scratches.esure has also provided an estimate of the costs of repairing this damage and this comes to 
over £4,000. Its fair for esure to make a deduction for pre-existing damage. Wed generally 
say that deducting 50% of the repair cost from the market value would be fair. esure 
deducted £2,000, so less than 50%, from the market value when it made its settlement offer. 
Im satisfied that its justification for making a deduction, and the amount deducted, is 
reasonable.
So having concluded that both the base value, and the deduction made by esure from this 
were reasonable, I conclude that esures offer of £2,808 (less the relevant policy excess) to 
settle the claim was fair.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman