DRN-3080092
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) rejected his 
claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase 
of some solar panels.
Background
In 2016 Mr S bought some solar panels for his home, from a third party which has since 
gone out of business. His complaint is that these panels were misrepresented to him by the 
salesman, in that he did not receive the financial returns he was told he could expect. 
Because he had funded his purchase with a personal loan from Tesco Bank, he approached 
the bank and asked it to compensate him under section 75.
Tesco Bank did not uphold his claim. It told him that section 75 did not apply to his purchase. 
It initially explained that this was because he had not paid for the panels with a credit card or 
a debit card (which is not legally accurate). But after Mr S brought this complaint to our 
service, Tesco Bank clarified that its position was that section 75 did not apply to personal 
loans. It had paid the money directly to Mr S, not to the solar panels company, and it had no 
business relationship with that company.
Mr Ss complaint was considered by one of our investigators, but she did not uphold it. She 
agreed that section 75 does not apply to purchases made with personal loans. Mr S said that 
this was not fair, since he had only taken out the loan in the first place because the 
salesman had advised him to. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, I do not uphold this complaint, for the same reason as the investigator 
gave. I will explain further.
Where goods or services are purchased on credit, section 75 can (in certain circumstances) 
make the provider of credit jointly and equally liable with the supplier of the goods or 
services for a misrepresentation by the supplier. But section 75 only applies where the credit 
is paid directly to the supplier (or is meant to be), and where the credit agreement is made 
under pre-existing arrangements between the creditor and the supplier. And not only is that 
not what happened here, but the solar panels were not even bought on credit at all. This was 
actually a cash purchase, albeit using money Mr S had borrowed from Tesco Bank. Even 
though the salesman filled in Mr Ss online loan application for him, that does not change the 
fact that the money was paid directly to Mr S, who in turn used that money to pay for the 
panels. These were two distinct transactions, only one of which was the provision of credit, 
and the fact that they were both made for a common purpose does not change that fact.
I have read the loan agreement, and the welcome letter which Tesco Bank sent to Mr S once 
his loan account was opened. Both documents make it quite clear that this was a personal 
loan from Tesco Bank to Mr S. The loan agreement states that the parties to the loan are 
Mr S and Tesco Bank; the solar panels company is not mentioned. And the welcome letter 
says Your Tesco Loan account is now open. The loan funds will be in your bank account 
within three business days. Section 75 is not capable of applying to a transaction of this 
kind.
I will refer to what the legislation says. The opening words of section 75(1) are:
(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the 
supplier in respect of a misrepresentation
(The debtor means Mr S, and the supplier means the solar panels company.)
The relevant words of section 12 are:
A debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is
(b) a restricted-use credit agreement which  is made by the creditor under 
pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future arrangements, 
between himself and the supplier, or
(c) an unrestricted-use credit agreement which is made by the creditor under 
pre-existing arrangements between himself and a person (the supplier ) other 
than the debtor in the knowledge that the credit is to be used to finance a 
transaction between the debtor and the supplier.
Tesco Banks loan to Mr S was an unrestricted-use credit agreement, but it was not made by 
the bank under pre-existing arrangements it had with the supplier. Tesco Bank had no such 
arrangements with the supplier. (I have also seen no evidence that Tesco Bank knew what 
the loan was for, although even if it did, that would still not be enough in the circumstances.)
Since I am satisfied that section 75 did not apply here, I do not think it could be fair and 
reasonable to hold Tesco Bank responsible for what the solar panels company did.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
This decision concludes our services involvement in this case, and so we will not engage in 
further correspondence about its merits.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022. But it is not necessary for him to reply, and if we dont 
hear from him then we will presume that he does not accept my decision.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman