DRN-4475799
The complaint
Ms B has complained that Studio Retail Limited (Studio) acted irresponsibly when it 
increased the credit limit on her catalogue shopping account in January 2017.
Ms B has brought her complaint to us via a claims management company (CMC).
Background
Ms B had a catalogue shopping account with Studio which was originally taken out in 2012.
In January 2017 Studio increased the limit on Ms Bs account from £1,740 to £1,950. She
has said that at the time of the increase she was already struggling to maintain the account
and meet her monthly payments. She believes the limit increase was inappropriate and that
Studio failed to run sufficient checks to ensure she could afford the new limit and linked
interest charges.
Studio has said that the credit limit increase was automatic, and that Ms B couldve declined
it or opted out of automatic increases if she had concerns about her ability to maintain the
account. It has also said that up to the point the limit increase happened Ms B had been
properly maintaining her account. While it accepts the account eventually fell into arrears this
didnt happen until a year after the limit increase in 2017. So, it doesnt think it did anything
wrong in increasing the limit.
I issued a provisional decision on 24 October 2023. In it I said Id not seen enough evidence 
to show that the credit limit increase was unaffordable. I asked Ms B, via her CMC 
representative, to provide more evidence for me to consider. I gave both parties until 21 
November 2023 to respond.
Neither Studio nor Ms Bs CMC responded to my provisional decision. As Ive not received 
any additional information to consider my overall findings remain the same. For the sake of 
clarity, I will repeat those findings here. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B has said that at the time the limit on her account was increased she was already 
struggling financially. So she doesnt think Studio ought to have increased the amount of 
credit available to her as shes said the lending was unaffordable. 
Generally speaking, when consumers allege that credit they received was unaffordable we
ask them to provide supporting evidence such as bank statements or their credit files as this
evidence helps us understand their financial situation at the time they applied for or were
given the credit. It is also evidence that the business is likely to have requested at the time it
decided to provide the credit to the consumer.
We asked the CMC representing Ms B for this information, but it didnt reply to that request.
So, we asked Ms B directly for the information, but unfortunately she didnt respond to that
request either. So, Ive not had any sight of Ms Bs financial situation at the time she was
given the credit increase in January 2017. Which means the only evidence Ive been able to
review are the account statements showing how she was managing her Studio account in
the year prior to the credit increase.
Having reviewed these I can see that in the 12 months before she was given the credit
increase Ms B only missed one payment. And this was quickly amended and the account
brough back into good order within a few weeks. I dont think a single missed payment in the
12 months prior to the credit limit increase is sufficient to show Ms B was struggling to
manage the account or the credit wasnt affordable to her.
Our investigator noted that Ms B was almost at her full credit limit the month prior to the
increase. He felt this was indicative of someone who wasnt managing the account well. I
agree this can be a sign that someone is potentially over reliant on credit. However, looking
at the statements I can see prior to December 2016, when the account was almost at the
limit, it was often kept well under the limit. Given December is often an expensive month for
a lot of consumers I dont think the fact that Ms B had used her account more heavily in the
lead up to the Christmas period was indicative of someone who wasnt able to manage their
account or couldnt afford it. And Ive not been able to review anything else that may have 
shown Ms B was struggling at the time. 
Therefore, having reviewed everything that was made available to me, I dont think theres
sufficient evidence to show the credit limit increase was inappropriate or unaffordable. So,
Im not upholding Ms Bs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint against Studio Retail Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman