DRN-4056924
The complaint
Mr C has raised several issues about the service received from Santander UK Plc:
he says it failed to correctly amend a payment instruction;
he was left on hold for an extended period during a call to make the amendment; and
he wasnt given clear information about the savings account options, meaning he 
opened the wrong one.
 
What happened
In November 2022 Mr C contacted Santander to amend a particular standing order. He 
wanted to pay £11.90 less. That change didnt happen, and payments for the original 
amount were sent from the account over the next couple of months. 
In February 2023 Mr C called Santander to complain and get the payment instruction 
changed to the lower amount for one month. He was placed on hold by the agent for an 
extended amount of time, while a technical issue was resolved  but the amendment wasnt 
completed. A few days later Mr C called again, and this time the agent was able to quickly 
make the amendment to the payment instruction. Mr C was also told hed need to ring back 
the following month to change it back to the original amount. A complaint was raised about 
the previous call to Santander, and the amount of time hed been kept on hold. 
After setting up the complaint, the agent enquired whether Mr C would be interested in the 
banks savings account options  as he had a large amount of money in his current account, 
that wasnt earning much interest. The agent talked Mr C through the two options  one with 
a lower rate that allowed easy access and large transfers, and one with a higher rate which 
allowed a maximum of £200 a month to be paid into it. Mr C subsequently applied for the 
wrong one online, which didnt allow him to transfer in the large balance from his current 
account. So he raised a complaint about the advice he was given over the phone.
Santander investigated the issues and agreed some aspects of the service had been poor. It 
acknowledged the mistake made in not amending the direct debit instruction  and paid £60 
to cover the extra amounts that went out in those months, and to compensate his wasted 
time in having to call again. Santander also agreed hed been kept on hold too long during 
the call in February 2023, and paid Mr C £25 for that inconvenience. The bank didnt agree 
its agent had given incorrect information about the savings account options, but paid £30 as 
a gesture of goodwill to recognise the time hed spent following up on the matter.
Mr C wasnt happy with the responses, and so contacted our service. An investigator 
reviewed everything and agreed the service in relation to the payment instruction and being 
kept on hold could have been better, but thought the apologies and compensation offers 
were sufficient. The investigator didnt think Santander had given misleading or unclear 
information about the savings accounts. So, overall, he didnt recommend the bank took any 
further steps to resolve things. 
Mr C disagreed, saying we hadnt appreciated the trouble hed been put to, as a result of the 
sequence of service failings from Santander. He also told us he is severely disabled, which 
causes him enough difficulty anyway without having to deal with issues like this.  
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision on 
the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Santander dont need to do anything further in resolution of the 
complaints Mr C has made. I agree the service has been poor at points, but I consider the 
bank has done enough to put right any impact caused. Ive explained below how I reached 
my outcome  and, while I appreciate Mr C may be disappointed, I hope that having an 
independent party review what happened offers him some reassurance. 
Santander accept it made an error when it didnt amend the standing order. I know that will 
have been frustrating for Mr C, and I can see it caused him to have to call the bank a couple 
of times before the payment instruction was changed. Santanders offer covered any 
financial loss, and included a bit extra to apologise for the hassle caused. Considering the 
impact caused by the mistake was small, I find that to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Similarly with being kept on hold for longer than he should have been, Santander was quick 
to admit it was at fault. I can appreciate that would have been a waste of Mr Cs time and 
frustrating for him. Ive also noted what Mr C has told us about his disabilities, and from that I 
gather having to call in would sometimes be difficult enough. But the apology and £25 paid 
by Santander was, in my view, enough to compensate what would have been quite a minor 
inconvenience and delay. 
Ive listened to the call where the payment instruction was eventually amended, and the 
different savings account types were discussed. Its clear that Mr C becomes muddled at 
various points, but I found the agent clearly explained the differences between the two 
options  and corrected Mr C each time it appeared hed not understood the features 
correctly. I appreciate Mr C took away a different impression from that call, and set up a 
savings account that didnt meet his needs off the back of it  but I dont consider that was 
the result of misleading or unclear advice from Santander. 
Ive also considered the online application journey Mr C would have followed when setting 
up the account, and I find Santander was clear about its features  including the £200 
monthly limit on the amount that could be paid in. I acknowledge what Mr C has said about 
relying on the information given to him during calls, due to his disabilities  but as Ive not 
found any issues with what he was told by the agent, Im not holding Santander at fault in 
what happened. 
Santander chose to pay Mr C £30 as a goodwill gesture, even though it didnt think it had 
made any mistakes with regards to the advice on savings accounts. It is free to do that, to 
maintain a customer relationship  but, given I wouldnt have awarded any compensation for 
that complaint, I find the banks offer to be fair in the circumstances. Mr C has also 
mentioned not receiving a letter stating he could take his complaints to our service. The rules 
laid down by the regulator say a business doesnt have to provide a full final response letter 
if complaints are resolved quickly  which was the case here. Nonetheless, Mr C did 
manage to find his way to us  so Im pleased theres been no impact there.Overall, I can understand why Mr C feels the service from Santander was poor  I agree with 
him, it was, and the bank has admitted as much too. But I deem the apologies and 
compensation payments totalling £115 to be enough to fairly remedy Mr Cs wasted time 
(due to the extra calls he shouldnt have had to make), and the frustration arising from this 
journey.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Cs complaint about Santander UK Plc, but dont require the 
bank to do anything further to resolve matters. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman