DRN-2355811
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr A says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr As 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr As representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr As. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr As complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr A didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take 
it out. I say this because Lloyds has given us a copy of Mr As credit card application and 
agreement. It has been completed by hand and signed and dated by Mr A. Mr A has 
provided details about his circumstances at the time such as his address and 
employment etc. I see there is a separate section of the form entitled OPTIONAL 
FEATURES followed by several options and I see that Mr A has ticked the box to take 
the PAYMENT PROTECTION PLAN. If Mr A hadnt wanted to have the PPI he could 
have left this box blank which I notice he did for other features that were offered. So, I 
think Mr A was aware he had a choice about taking the PPI and decided to add it to his 
account upon application for his credit card.
To be fair to Mr A Lloyds has assumed it recommended the PPI to Mr A, so it had to 
check that the PPI was right for him. And the evidence about Mr As circumstances at the 
time, shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For 
example, Mr A was eligible for the cover and he didnt have any means to fall back on to 
fall back on in order to make the credit card repayments if he wasnt working, so he had 
a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr As self-employment which would have made it difficult for 
him to claim. Although Mr A says he had a medical condition some time before the policy 
was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for Lloyds to have recommended it. I say this 
because the condition Mr A told us about occurred around eight years before he took the 
policy. And I note it was resolved by a minor one off operation. Mr A didnt tell us of any 
further problems so I dont think it likely he would have had to have made a claim on the 
policy because of it. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health 
or back problems.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out  so it looks like he wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr A as I concluded above, 
or too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he 
was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr A would have declined 
the cover had Lloyds done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr A would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr As representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr As representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr As individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr As particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman