DRN-2833742
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC irresponsibly lent her credit that she couldnt 
afford to repay. 
What happened
Mrs D had a current account with Barclays. In February 2018 she applied for a loan of 
£10,300 through her banking app and was accepted. She then applied for further borrowing 
with Barclays  a credit card with a £6,500 limit in July 2018, a £1,700 loan in October 2018 
and a further loan of £7,900 in August 2019.
During this time Mrs D was struggling with her finances. She had a reduction in her income 
and had to re-mortgage her house and borrow from family members in order to address her 
debts. She was also struggling with her mental health.
At the start of 2020 she complained to Barclays as she felt it had lent to her irresponsibly. 
She also said she had made a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) and Barclays hadnt 
responded to it in the required time. 
Barclays didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint about the lending, as it said it had done checks on 
her management of previous credit and income and expenditure in order to determine if the 
lending was affordable. Further it said it hadnt been aware of Mrs Ds financial or mental 
health struggles at the time of the applications. However it agreed it hadnt dealt with her 
DSAR in good time, so offered £75 compensation to make up for this.
Mrs D didnt agree. She felt she hadnt applied for the loans as they had been advertised as 
pre-approved in her banking app. So she didnt think enough checks were carried out before 
these were given to her. She brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said she thought Barclays 
acted responsibly by lending the first two loans and the credit card, as she was satisfied the 
checks showed Mrs D could afford these. However she said she didnt think Barclays had 
acted responsibly when lending the loan in August 2019. She also said Mrs D had told 
Barclays that she was struggling in June 2019, but it hadnt taken action to help her at that 
point which had caused her additional distress. She said Barclays should refund interest and 
charges on the third loan a swell as 8% interest on these amounts. And she thought 
Barclays should pay Mrs D £200 compensation to make up for the distress the extra lending 
and caused. 
Barclays agreed to our investigators recommendations. However Mrs D didnt think the 
compensation was enough to make up for the distress Barclays had caused her. She asked 
for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When offering lending Barclays is required to ensure it does so responsibly. It needs to 
check whether lending is affordable and that it can be repaid sustainably. We would expect it 
to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks in order to assess this. There is no set list 
of checks Barclays needs to do, but the checks should be proportionate to the 
circumstances of each loan, and might include considerations about the amount borrowed 
and Mrs Ds available income each month.
Mrs D has said she doesnt think Barclays responsibly lent her the three loans and credit 
card she took out in 2018 and 2019. She says she couldnt afford to repay them, particularly 
as her income decreased during this time. 
Ive started by considering whether Barclays carried out proportionate checks when agreeing 
the lending. 
Barclays has provided the information it based its lending decisions on. Mrs D has a current 
account with Barclays so it had access to monthly spending data through her accounts with 
it. It has shown it based each decision on Mrs Ds monthly income and expenditure of 
essentials, including bills and credit repayment. As well as her track record of managing 
existing credit accounts with it. It also said it gets regular information from credit agencies 
that it was able to check. 
Considering Mrs D is a customer of Barclays, this means it is able to make a reasonable 
assessment of her income and expenditure each month. As well as monitoring how she 
manages her other credit commitments. With this information, alongside regular updates 
from credit agencies to flag any adverse credit records, I think this would have been 
proportionate when deciding whether Mrs D would be able to sustainably meet the required 
repayments. So Im satisfied it carried out sufficient checks. 
Ive gone on to consider the information these checks would have shown Barclays. I will 
comment on each loan in turn.
Loan offered in February 2018 - £10,300
From looking at Mrs Ds spending each month, I agree that for the first loan Mrs D had 
enough disposable income to be able to maintain the required repayments. From looking at 
her statements from just before this time, she maintained an average of around £400 
disposable income every month, after all financial commitments were met. Further there was 
no adverse information on her credit file. So I dont think Barclays irresponsibly lent the first 
loan.
Loan offered in October 2018 - £1,700
Once she was accepted for the loan in February 2018, Mrs D maintained all required 
payments while still having around £300 disposable income. Barclays has said that the fact 
she had managed credit accounts well, was one of the things it considered when accepting 
Mrs Ds applications for extra credit. And, as the second loan was for a much smaller 
amount, with repayments of £39 a month, I think it was reasonable for Barclays to conclude 
that this was affordable. So from the information available at the time, I dont think Barclays 
were irresponsible to lend her the second loan either.
Credit card offered in July 2018  limit £6,500During this time, Mrs D was also approved for a credit card, with a limit of £6,500. And 
considering Mrs D was managing her accounts well and was maintaining a good level of 
disposable income, I think this was reasonable. Barclays has said that she was approved for 
a much higher limit. But it only offered an initial lower limit, due to her existing credit 
commitments. At this time I think this was reasonable. So I dont think Barclays irresponsibly 
lent the credit card.
Loan offered August 2019  £7,900
The third loan was for a large amount, and as it was repayable over 60 months, so the 
required monthly repayments were £149. This is more than the repayments required on 
either of the previous two loans. So I would expect Barclays to bear this in mind when 
making its assessment.
Barclays has said that it felt she had enough disposable income to meet the repayments. 
And she hadnt missed payments on the previous loans, sometimes paying above what she 
was required.
While I agree Mrs D was keeping up with payments towards her previous borrowing, I dont 
think that was enough to show that the new loan would be affordable. Ive completed my 
own income and expenditure based on statements from the start of 2019 until the loan was 
offered in August that year. I can see Mrs D was making a number of payments to different 
financial companies each month. And I dont agree that Mrs D had enough disposable 
income to meet the required repayments on the new loan on top of these.  
When the third loan was offered, Mrs Ds monthly expenditure was less stable than it had 
been. There were some months where she was spending considerably more on her financial 
commitments than she received in income. And the month before she applied for the loan, 
she only had around £40 left after all financial commitments were met.
Barclays has said it checked the expenditure on her account in order to decide if the lending 
was affordable. And from what Ive seen, I dont think it should have reasonably concluded 
that the third loan was based on the account activity. 
For that reason I dont think Barclays lent the third loan responsibly. So I agree with our 
investigator that it should refund the interest and charges on the third loan. Barclays should 
also pay 8% simple interest on these amounts to make up for the time Mrs D has been 
without the money. Barclays should also remove any adverse data from Mrs Ds credit file 
that relates to this loan.
I have also considered the impact Barclays actions have had on Mrs D. She has explained 
that over 2018 and 2019 she had struggled with her finances and her mental health. During 
2018 I cant see that she informed Barclays of this. So it wouldnt be reasonable to expect it 
to take any action, as it wouldnt have reasonably known. 
However in June 2019 Mrs D contacted Barclays on a web chat to explain her situation. This 
was two months before it accepted her application for a further loan. I think at this stage 
Barclays could and should have taken positive action to help Mrs D  and Ive not seen 
evidence that they did. I would also have expected the information to impact its decision on 
whether to agree the third loan. For this reason I agree with our investigator that Barclays 
should pay £200 compensation to make up for the distress it has caused Mrs D after she 
shared information about her situation with it.  
  
Finally Mrs D is unhappy with the length of time it took Barclays to process her DSAR. Barclays offered her £75 for the inconvenience this has caused and think thats fair in the 
circumstances. So I wont ask it to do anything further in relation to that. 
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ds complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Refund all interest and charges relating to the loan provided in August 2019.
Pay 8% simple interest on these amounts from the day they were charged until they are 
refunded. 
Pay Mrs D £200 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman