DRN-3119757
The complaint
Miss B believes Bamboo Limited acted irresponsibly by agreeing two loans shed applied for.
What happened
On 6 March 2018, Miss B took out a loan with Bamboo (Loan 1). The loan was for £2,000 
over 24 months, with monthly repayments of £123.46. Miss B made payments on time and in 
full.
On 25 September 2018, Miss B took out another loan with Bamboo (Loan 2). This loan was 
for £2,992.09 over 24 months, with monthly repayments of £184.70. Part of the funds from 
Loan 2 were used to repay Loan 1, and Miss B received £1,149.36. All payments were made 
on time, and in full, and Miss B repaid Loan 2 in March 2020.
Miss B has complained Bamboo didnt act responsibly when approving the loans. She said 
shed taken out credit in the six months before taking out Loan 1 which, along with her 
existing credit and outgoings, made those loan unaffordable. Because of this, she was 
caught up in a cycle of unsustainable borrowing. And Loan 2 only made the situation worse.
Bamboo thought theyd acted reasonably when approving the loans. Miss B wasnt happy 
with this, and she brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that Bamboo had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
when they approved each loan. And the loans were affordable for Miss B at the time she 
took them out, with no indications that this affordability wouldnt be sustainable over the 
lifetime of the loans. So she didnt think Bamboo had done anything wrong.
Miss B didnt agree with the investigator. She said that, if Bamboo had done additional 
checks, then they wouldnt have given her the loans. Because she was living in rented 
accommodation with an ex-partner who had a gambling addiction, Miss B has said that her 
disposable income was less that the investigator had calculated. And she said that she had 
an £18,000 loan that hadnt been taken into consideration, as well as being given a new 
credit card with an £8,000 limit in August 2018. 
Miss B said that the credit card provider said that the card shouldnt have been given in 
August 2018, so she thinks it stands to reason that the Bamboo loans also shouldnt have 
been approved  at the time of the second loan she owed £42,000 in unsecured debts, with 
an annual salary of £23,000. She provided copies of her bank statements from 9 February 
2017 to 8 September 18 to support this.
The investigator explained that this additional information didnt change her view, and that 
Bamboo were entitled to rely upon the information they been provided with by Miss B, and 
from the information on her credit file. Because of this, Miss B asked for an Ombudsman to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss 
B would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Bamboo make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss B 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that Bamboo didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Miss Bs 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss B 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Loan 1
Ive seen the information Miss B supplied to Bamboo when she applied for Loan 1. She 
declared that she was living with her parents and paying no rent. She also said her income 
was £1,626 a month.
Ive seen the credit search that Bamboo did on 16 March 2018, where Miss B was showing 
as being on the electoral role with her parents. The credit file showed that Miss B owed a 
£8,816 on loans and £3,570 on credit cards. It also showed that she had a total credit card 
limit of £5,900, so she had a 60% balance to limit ratio. 
There were no defaults or county court judgements, and no missed payments on any credit 
agreements in the last 24 months. The credit search also showed that Miss Bs current 
account was conducted within her agreed overdraft limit.
The credit search showed that Miss B was paying £278 a month to her loans, and 5% of the 
credit card balance would be £178.50.
Based on the information available to them, Bamboo calculated Miss Bs income to be 
£1,626 a month, and they took her living expenses to be £382.57 (calculated from data 
supplied by the Office for National Statistics). With her existing credit commitments of 
£456.50, this gave her £786.94 disposable income each month from which to pay the new 
loan payment of £123.46, and any other discretionary expenditure she may have.
Loan 2
Ive listened to the call where Miss B contacted Bamboo about a top-up loan. They explained 
how this worked and provided her with quotes. When asked about her residential status, Miss B confirmed she was living at home, with her parents, and paying no rent. She 
confirmed she was paid £1,581 every four-weeks (which is equivalent to £1,711 a month), 
and when asked about existing loans, she said she didnt have any. At the end of the call, 
Bamboo asked can you confirm that youve provided accurate financial information today to 
which Miss B answered yes. Following this call, the application for Loan 2 was processed. 
Ive seen the credit search that Bamboo did on 25 September 2018, where Miss B was 
showing as being on the electoral role with her parents. The credit file showed that Miss B 
owed £9,559 on loans and £2,537 on credit cards. It also showed that she had a total credit 
card limit of £14,400, so she had a 17% balance to limit ratio. 
There were no defaults or county court judgements, and no missed payments on any credit 
agreements in the last 24 months. The credit search also showed that Miss Bs current 
account was conducted within her agreed overdraft limit.
Excluding the existing payment to Loan 1, which would be repaid as part of Loan 2, the 
credit search showed that Miss B was paying £286 a month to her loans, and 5% of the 
credit card balance would be £126.85.
Based on the information available to them, Bamboo calculated Miss Bs income to be 
£1,711 a month, and they took her living expenses to be £262.71 (calculated from data 
supplied by the Office for National Statistics). With her existing credit commitments of 
£412.85, this gave her £1,035.44 disposable income each month from which to pay the new 
loan payment of £184.70, and any other discretionary expenditure she may have.
Given the above, I think that Bamboo acted reasonably and proportionately by approving 
these loans without carrying out any additional checks.
Did Bamboo make a fair lending decision?
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Bamboo made a fair lending decision for Loan 1. 
All the information Miss B provided to them was confirmed by the checks they did. And these 
checks didnt show that Mis B had any additional credit commitments that she hadnt 
declared. The loan was also affordable based on the income and expenditure calculation.
For Loan 2, all of the information Miss B provided to them was confirmed by the checks they 
did, and there were no additional undeclared credit commitments showing. Bamboo used the 
higher income declared by Miss B, and they also used a lower figure for the living expenses. 
Given the short time between loans, I think that Bamboo shouldve used the lower income / 
higher living expenses figure from Loan 1 when making their affordability calculation. But, if 
theyd done this, then it would still have shown to be affordable. So Im also satisfied that 
Bamboo made a fair lending decision for Loan 2.
Im aware that Miss B disagrees that the loans shouldve been approved, and shes provided 
bank statements to back up her view. These banks statements werent provided to Bamboo 
at the time, so the information contained on them wasnt available to Bamboo.
Ive reviewed the bank statements for the three months before each loan was approved. 
Miss Bs monthly income is showing as an average of £1,581.33 a month at the time of Loan 
1, and an average of £1,603.04 a month at the time of Loan 2. Both of these figures are 
slightly lower than the amount Miss B declared, but not so dissimilar that they would make 
ether loan unaffordable.All of the credit commitments showing on the credit searches are also showing on Miss Bs 
bank statements. There is an additional loan of £337.02 a month that isnt showing on the 
credit searches, and Miss B didnt declare this loan to Bamboo during either application. So 
Bamboo were unaware of this and couldnt take it into consideration.
But Ive also seen that Miss B received a payment from her then partner each month, 
equivalent to the amount of this loan payment. So, at the time of both applications, this 
wasnt a commitment Miss B was actually paying. Im aware this situation mayve changed 
after the loans were approved, but Im only considering what was happening at the time. So I 
dont think this undeclared loan meant Bamboo shouldnt have approved either loan.
The bank statements for July and August 2018 also show that Miss B was paying council tax 
and an payment that was likely rent. But she didnt tell Bamboo about this, instead telling 
them she lived at home with her parents and paid no rent  something that was confirmed by 
the electoral roll details on the credit search. So, while this may have affected the 
affordability for Loan 2, I cant say that Bamboo did anything wrong by not taking into 
consideration things they were unaware of.
Finally, Miss B has referred to a credit card that was taken out in August 2018, which had 
been agreed that it shouldnt have been approved. My decision concerns whether Bamboo 
acted fairly and reasonably based on the information they had at the time. And a lending 
decision made by another provider, based on different facts and circumstances, has no 
bearing on this  I cant say what information Miss B provided to the credit card company, 
only what she provided to Bamboo.
So, given the above, the information Miss B had now provided doesnt change my view that 
Bamboo made fair lending decisions based on the information they had available to them at 
the time.
Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to make me think Bamboo acted unfairly or unreasonably in
some other way.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint about Bamboo Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman