DRN-4028032
The complaint
Mr K complains that  Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund money he lost after he fell victim to an 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary I understand it to be as follows.
Mr K heard, through friends and an advert on a popular social media website, about a 
Company, who Ill refer to as P, who had an opportunity for some part time work. Mr K 
expressed an interest and was told he could earn £60-70 a day, by completing tasks which 
involved downloading an application and liking social media posts across a range of 
different social media platforms. But Mr K would be required to deposit money to receive the 
tasks.
Mr K has said hed seen, on various groups, that other people had been making money this 
way. Alongside this Mr K said he carried out research by looking at the internet and 
government sites and everything checked out. This, along with how many followers and 
likes P had, made him believe this was a legitimate opportunity.
Believing everything to be genuine, over a few days in January 2022 Mr K deposited over 
£2,000 by sending faster payments to three different limited companys, that P had provided 
him with bank details for. After the first payment, £99 was returned to Mr K, but he was told 
he needed to send more money in order to earn more. The transactions relevant to this 
complaint are listed below:
17 January 2022 £500   faster payment out (to payee 1)
17 January 2022 £ 99 credit received (from payee 1)
22 January 2022 £200 faster payment out (to payee 2)
24 January 2022 £1,500 faster payment out (to payee 3)
Mr K was told by P that within one week he would be able to see a return on the £2,200 hed 
paid, along with bonus and commission. But he was told he would need to build up a 
minimum of £500 in the application before he was able to withdraw any funds. Mr K became 
suspicious when, in February 2022, he had difficulty trying to make a withdrawal, following 
which the application stopped working and Ps presence across the various platforms and 
internet disappeared.
Mr K referred the matter to Monzo, but it declined to refund all of Mr Ks money. It said that it 
had considered the case under the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model CRM Code which requires it signatories (or firms like Monzo that have agreed to 
adhere to its principles) to refund victims of APP scams in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. In summary it didnt think Mr K had carried out enough checks before making 
the payments.
Monzo did however think it could have done more when it was made aware of the scam, to 
reach out to the beneficiary banks (the banks to which the payments were made), in respect 
of the first and second payments (for £500 and £200). Because of this it agreed to refund   
Mr K 50% of his remaining loss from these two payments, after factoring in that £99 from 
these payments had already been credited back to him.
Unhappy with Monzos response Mr K referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things, but didnt uphold the complaint. In summary he thought the 
promised returns seemed too good to be true. Our Investigator thought Mr K ought to have 
taken a more cautious approach and carried out more research, considering he was paying 
different companies, and not paying P directly.
Our Investigator considered that there was no requirement for Monzo to have provided Mr K 
with a warning, given he didnt think the scam risk would have been apparent to Monzo. He 
added that Monzo had contacted the beneficiary banks but the money had already been 
removed from the beneficiary accounts. He said that Monzo had already refunded 50% for 
two of the transactions and he didnt think it needed to do anything else.
Mr K disagreed with our Investigators view. In summary he didnt think it was fair as hed 
heard of other victims whose banks had returned their money. Mr K also gave some detail of 
the difficulties he was experiencing and of the impact this scam has had on his finances and 
health.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr K has referred to other situations that he says he is aware of, where hes seen 
that other victims have received refunds of the money they have lost. But I would point out 
that, while on the surface complaints may seem quite similar, each complaint is determined 
by its own individual circumstances. Here, as Im required to do, Ive looked solely at the 
individual circumstances of Mr Ks complaint.
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Mr K and I dont underestimate the impact that this 
cruel scam as had on him. I can understand why he wants his losses to be refunded to him. 
However, while I have sympathy for Mr K in what happened, I have to recognise that the 
principal cause of his losses here were the scammers who deceived him.
The starting point in law is that Mr K will be responsible for payments hes authorised  
himself. But, as already mentioned, Monzo have agreed to adhere to the principles of the  
CRM Code. In this case it seeks to rely on at least one of the exceptions to reimbursement   
that Mr K made the payments without a reasonable basis for believing that the payee was  
the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or  
services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
Ive considered this point carefully and, while I know this will be disappointing for Mr K, I  
think that Monzo acted fairly when it declined his claim on this basis. I also havent found  
any other reason for Monzo to be responsible for his loss.
Im aware that there are many victims of this scam and there were some features of it that 
made it seem more genuine to Mr K, including an application that could be downloaded 
through major app stores, other people seemingly having a positive experience and what 
appeared to be a support function that was available.But Im persuaded there were also other features that I think should fairly and reasonably 
have led Mr K to have genuine concerns that things might not all be as they seemed. Ill 
explain why.
Mr K has said he researched P prior to making the payments, but I note that P was only 
registered after hed made the payments, so I cant agree this could have played a part in 
reassuring him of Ps legitimacy. Im also mindful hear that Mr K was asked to make 
payments to three different limited companies, none of which were obviously linked to P.
Mr K has said he researched these other companies, but a search of these companies 
shows the nature of their business to be wholesalers of textiles, a mail order company and a 
non-store retailer, none of which being a social media firm and with no apparent link to P.
I think there were also other characteristics of this job opportunity that ought to have led     
Mr K to have cause for concern. Such as the suggestion that an individual would be able to 
generate a reasonable income simply by liking social media posts; and that in order to earn 
money, a user would have to first pay a significant (in comparison to the amount being 
generated) sum of money. Alongside this Mr K has said he was told hed be able to recover 
his deposits, along with bonus and commission, within one week. But the deposits hed 
made were far larger than the amount that could be earnt within that time, so the prospect of 
breaking even or making profit didnt seem plausible within that time frame. It wasnt clear 
how Mr K could make a return that exceeded the money hed been asked to pay and he 
seemed to take things at face value.
I dont underestimate Mr Ks strength of feeling and Im sorry to hear this has been a difficult 
time for him. Theres no question in my mind that Mr K has fallen victim to a scam. But 
overall, while I accept there were some convincing aspects to this scam, there were 
significant reasons to think that P might not have been a legitimate enterprise. So, I think 
Monzo can fairly rely on one of the exceptions to reimbursement in the CRM Code.
Ive considered whether Monzo met other standards required of it under the CRM Code. I 
dont consider the payments Mr K made were remarkable enough for Monzo to have been 
required to provide Mr K with an effective warning at the time he was making them. Neither 
do I find the bank had cause to intervene or sufficient reason not to carry out Mr Ks 
instructions.
Monzo did agree to refund 50% of Mr Ks loss for the first two payments he made. This was 
because it thought it could have reached out to the beneficiary banks sooner than it did, to 
attempt recovery of Mr Ks money. But the evidence Ive seen suggests the money was 
depleted from the beneficiary accounts within minutes of Mr K making his payments. 
Unfortunately, it is a common feature of APP scams such  as this, that recovery of the funds 
will prove impossible due to the funds being rapidly moved onwards from the initial receiving 
account.
In all the circumstances, I simply dont think there was any reasonable prospect that 
recovery in full (or part) could have been possible here  everything Ive seen suggests that 
the scam operated in such a way that any funds received were rapidly removed. So, even if 
Monzo had reached out to the beneficiary bank sooner than it did, considering there was no 
reasonable prospect of recovery, I think the 50% that Monzo has already agreed to refund 
(of the first two payments) is fair and I cant reasonably order it to pay anymore.
I also dont consider that I could fairly require Monzo to refund Mr K for any other reasons. I 
realise this will be a significant disappointment to Mr K. He has lost out to a scam that seems 
to have been designed to deceive him into sending money to a fake company. But as Ive noted above, the blame for this lies with the scammers who engineered this scheme, and I 
have not found that Monzo is liable to reimburse Mr K for his losses.
Finally, in his submissions Mr K has mentioned that perhaps he should take matters through 
the courts. Mr K doesnt have to accept my final decision, and if he doesnt it wont be 
binding on him. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court might impose, Mr Ks 
right to pursue a legal remedy wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman