DRN-2205205
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about the amount of compensation Lloyds Bank PLC, has paid him for 
the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) on a credit card.
What happened
Mr H took out a credit card with Lloyds in January 1999. Lloyds doesnt have a definite date 
when PPI was added to Mr Hs account. But it has assumed that this was from June 2000  
the date of the first statement still held where a PPI premium is shown as having been 
charged on the account.
In 2019, Mr H complained to Lloyds that hed been mis-sold PPI and it agreed to uphold his 
complaint. It offered him £6.99 in compensation. This was made up of the one monthly 
premium of £3.12 Lloyds said it had a record of Mr H paying in June 2000, together with 
simple interest at 8% of £3.87 (after £0.96 tax deducted).
Mr H wasnt happy with the amount offered by Lloyds. He thought hed paid more for PPI 
during the lifetime of the policy than Lloyds said he had. 
Our adjudicator said he thought Lloyds compensation offer had been calculated in the way 
he would have expected it to be and was fair. Mr H didnt agree with the adjudicators view 
and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Lloyds has already agreed to uphold Mr Hs complaint about the PPI being mis-sold, in 
this decision Im not looking at how the policy came to be sold. I am only looking at whether 
the offer Lloyds made was fair.
Lloyds have provided copies of Mr Hs credit card account for the period from January 2000 
to June 2006. Im satisfied from what Ive seen that Lloyds identify all PPI premiums which it 
has charged a customer on its statements. And I can see from these statements that the 
only PPI premium which was charged to Mr Hs account during this period was an amount of 
£3.12 in June 2000. Ive also seen statements for some individual months after June 2006 
and none of these show PPI premiums being charged either. 
Lloyds doesnt still have statements for Mr Hs account for the period before January 2000. 
But that isnt particularly surprising as businesses arent required to keep such records for 
this length of time. And Mr H doesnt appear to have any statements for this period either. In 
these circumstances, I need to decide what I think is most likely to have happened based on 
all the information I do have. 
I know that PPI wasnt being charged on Mr Hs account for the period from January 2000 
until June 2000. So I think its reasonable for me to conclude that its most likely that PPI 
wasnt charged on his account before January 2000 either. It is, of course, possible that one 
or more PPI premiums were charged in the period from when Mr Hs account was opened to 
January 2000. But I havent seen anything which makes me think this is most likely to have 
happened. 
I can understand why Mr H might think that Lloyds hasnt complied with the methodology it 
has, itself, said it uses in its offer letter for determining the start date of a PPI policy where 
this is uncertain. But I dont think this methodology was intended to be used where, as in this 
case, the earliest available statement doesnt show PPI being charged on the account. In 
these circumstances, and in the absence of any information to the contrary, I think it is fair 
and reasonable for Lloyds to assume that no PPI policy was attached to the card account 
before that earliest available statement.
In summary, Im satisfied that its most likely that Mr H was charged only one PPI premium 
on his credit card account and that was for £3.12 in June 2000. So, given what is known 
about the history of Mr Hs card account, I think the compensation which Lloyds has offered 
him for the mis-sale of the PPI (which includes simple interest at 8% for the relevant period) 
is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I think what Lloyds PLC offered in compensation to Mr H to 
settle his complaint about mis-sold PPI is fair. I understand that Mr H has already received 
payment of this offer, so Im not telling Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman