DRN-3211918
The complaint
Mr L complains about a mobile telephone he got from Virgin Media Limited (the supplier). To 
purchase the handset, Mr L took out a fixed sum loan agreement with Virgin Media Mobile 
Finance Limited, who Ill refer to as Virgin Finance. He says the handset has a fault, but 
Virgin Finance wont allow him to return it and cancel the finance agreement.
What happened
In June 2018, Mr L signed a fixed sum loan agreement with Virgin Finance, so he could get 
a brand new mobile telephone. Nearly two years later, Mr L called Virgin Finance to talk 
about an upgrade to the handset. He also spoke to them about a problem with his existing 
handset, where he said the battery wasnt charging correctly.
Virgin Finance guided Mr L through the process to perform a check on the handset, to see if 
the problem could be fixed. Virgin Finance say they also sent a new charger to Mr L, to see if 
that would help.
Mr L says he didnt receive the charger and the problem with the battery continued. And after 
further enquiries with Virgin Finance, Mr L was told the handset had been damaged while in 
his possession and wasnt covered under warranty. He was also offered several different 
deals for new handsets, but they were withdrawn by Virgin Finance not long afterwards.
To try and resolve things, Virgin Finance told Mr L he could either pay for a repair to the 
handset, or settle the loan and apply for a different deal. Mr L wanted to be able to end the 
loan agreement with nothing further to pay. So, he complained to Virgin Finance.
In their final response to Mr Ls complaint, Virgin Finance reiterated the options they had 
made available. But, Mr L didnt accept that and referred his complaint to us. He says he 
doesnt want to make repayments towards an agreement for a handset, that doesnt work 
properly.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ls case and found that Virgin Finance had treated 
him fairly. He concluded that although the problem with the handset wasnt disputed, Mr L 
had used it for nearly two years without reporting a fault. The investigator also said Mr L 
hadnt provided any evidence to show that the fault was present when he got the handset 
and that some other damage on the handset wasnt covered by the warranty.
Furthermore, the investigator said that Virgin Finance were able to pursue Mr L for the 
arrears owed under the agreement and that it was fair for them to pass any adverse 
information onto credit reference agencies.
Mr L didnt agree. He said Virgin Finance hadnt sent him the charger they had promised him 
and were sending him threatening letters over the debt. He also said it was unfair for Virgin 
Finance to have withdrawn the various deals he was offered and that he couldnt make use 
of the warranty.
The investigator didnt change his conclusions and now Mr Ls complaint has been passed to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin Finances responsibility 
Virgin Finance gave Mr L the fixed sum loan agreement for the handset, given to him by the 
supplier. The supplier is another arm of Virgin Finance. Although they are separate 
companies, from Mr Ls point of view, he has dealt with the same people throughout. 
Mr Ls fixed sum loan agreement is a regulated credit facility. So, we are able to consider 
complaints about it.
Under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, a finance provider is responsible for any 
breach of contract by the supplier in certain circumstances. Also, under the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 (CRA), there is an implied term written into contracts that goods supplied 
need to be of satisfactory quality. The CRA says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking into account 
any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In Mr Ls case, he says the handset provided is not working as it should. If the goods 
provided by the supplier are not of satisfactory quality, then this is a breach of contract. So, 
Virgin Finances responsibility to Mr L is to consider his section 75 claim and decide if the 
handset was of satisfactory quality. If its found they were not of satisfactory quality, it would 
be for Virgin Finance to then offer Mr L an appropriate remedy.
The quality of the handset and the warranty
In comparison to other mobile telephones available at the time, the handset given to Mr L is 
one of the more expensive models and its made by a well-established manufacturer. It was 
also supplied brand new, rather than second hand or refurbished. So, I think Mr L could have 
expected a high quality product which was fault free at the point of supply and durable.
The supplier gave Mr L the handset in June 2018. I can see from Virgin Finances contact 
records that nearly two years later, Mr L called them to say the battery wasnt charging 
correctly. The contact records dont show any other instances within that time, where Mr L 
might have told them about a problem. So, based on the evidence, I think Mr L was able to 
us the handset for nearly two years, before he noticed the fault.
The CRA says that goods must conform to contract within the first six months. So, where a 
fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when the 
goods were supplied, unless Virgin Finance are able to show otherwise. But, where a fault is 
identified after the first six months, its for Mr L to show that it was present when the handset 
was supplied.
 Ive concluded that Mr L was able to use the handset for nearly two years and there wasnt 
a repair or diagnostic report in that time. The other evidence available from Virgin Finances 
notes show where they carried out a health check on the handset in May 2020, which found 
a charging fault. Those notes also suggest that there was damage to the handsets display 
screen.
Having considered everything, I think the onus was on Mr L to show that the handset was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply. I think the evidence shows there was a fault with 
the handset two years after Mr L was given it. But, I dont think the evidence leads me to 
conclude the fault was present when Mr L got the handset. So, on balance I dont think 
Mr Ls handset was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied.
Ive also considered the durability of Mr Ls handset. Ive seen that the health check on the 
handset, suggests that the display screen was damaged. And this was the reason why Virgin 
Finance chose not to repair the handset under the warranty.
There isnt a suggestion from Virgin Finance that the cracked display screen and the 
charging fault are linked. But, I think the additional damage to the handset shows that there 
is more than one problem with it. I also think Mr Ls concern about the charging fault didnt 
appear until after he had used the handset for nearly two years.
Ive carefully thought about all the evidence and I think the presence of the charging fault 
doesnt mean the handset wasnt durable. I think the general condition of the handset in May 
2020 and the use Mr L had from it previously, meant it may have shown a fault sooner than 
a model with less damage.
In all the circumstances, I think Virgin Finance have treated Mr Ls section 75 claim fairly. I 
think the quality of the handset when Mr L acquired it, was of a standard which a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory. And I think Virgin Finance treated Mr L fairly by offering 
to repair the faults, albeit at a cost to Mr L.
Within his complaint, Mr L also questioned why the handset couldnt be repaired under 
warranty. Virgin Finance say the warranty doesnt cover damage caused by a customer, or 
from water ingress. 
Both Mr L and Virgin Finance accept that the cracked screen happened when Mr L had 
possession of the handset. So, I dont think its unfair of Virgin Finance to have told Mr L that 
they wont repair all the faults with the handset under the warranty. 
The incorrect information and the letters received by Mr L
In May 2020 Virgin Finances records show that Mr L told them he wanted to return the 
handset and that he was looking to cancel his direct debit payments towards the loan 
agreement. A few months afterwards, I can see that Mr Ls loan account entered into arrears 
and that Virgin Finances collections team contacted him.
I acknowledge Mr Ls frustration, in that he still had a fixed sum loan agreement with Virgin 
Finance, but the handset wasnt working as it was previously. But, I think he still had a 
responsibility to make payments towards that agreement. Or, if he was unable to meet those 
payments, it was for him to speak to Virgin Finance about a reduced repayment plan. 
I also think that Virgin Finance is able to pass any missed payment information on to the 
credit reference agencies they use. I say this because Virgin Finance is required to 
accurately reflect the repayment history of Mr Ls fixed sum loan on Mr Ls credit file.
Having thought carefully about all the evidence, I dont think Virgin Finance have acted 
unreasonably in pursuing Mr L for the outstanding amount owed under the loan agreement. 
While I recognise this means Mr L is likely to be asked to repay the remaining balance of the 
loan, I remind Virgin Finance of their responsibility to treat his financial circumstances with 
due consideration and forbearance.
Mr L has told us that he doesnt think Virgin Finance treated him fairly, when they offered various solutions to his concerns, such as discounts on a new handset. He says these 
solutions were withdrawn by Virgin Finance, giving him false hope that his concerns would 
be resolved.  
Mr Ls own records show that shortly after he contacted Virgin Finance about the charging 
fault, he spoke to several advisors about the costs for a new handset. And he says these 
costs ranged from £15, to repaying the total amount left on his agreement.
I agree that Virgin Finance may have tried to offer Mr L various handsets of varying costs. 
And I acknowledge where Mr L may have found some of those offers very appealing to his 
circumstances. However, I can also see that Virgin Finance told Mr L soon afterwards that 
he wouldnt be eligible for the offers, or he couldnt make a claim under the warranty for the 
handset repairs.
In all the circumstances, I think Virgin Finance did set Mr L expectations that he may be able 
to get a new handset or make a claim under the warranty. But, I also think Virgin Finance 
corrected their error in a reasonable time. I dont think it would be fair for Virgin Finance to 
reinstate those offers now, as Mr L wasnt ever entitled to them.
Overall, I accept Mr L was disappointed to have his expectations raised when he thought 
Virgin Finance could offer him various deals on a new handset. However, I think the actual 
position was made clear within a reasonable time. 
I also empathise with Mr Ls difficult personal circumstances during the last two years. But 
having considered everything, I think Virgin Finance treated Mr L fairly when they looked at 
the quality of the handset and the cost of the repair they could offer him. So, I dont think 
Virgin Finance needs to take any further steps than theyve already offered, to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman