DRN-3435154
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was mis-led in applying for a pre-approved loan with Admiral 
Financial Services Ltd trading as Admiral Loans. But his loan application was declined.
 
What happened
In October 2021, Mr C applied for a loan with Admiral after he saw hed been pre-approved 
on a credit broker site. The site also said the loan had a Triple Lock Guarantee.  Mr C said 
the wording on the site said if he was 100% pre-approved hed be accepted for the loan 
provided he passed any fraud checks and the application details hed given were correct. He 
said Admiral hadnt treated him fairly as theyd declined his application on affordability. He 
said the wording was mis-leading and this had affected his credit file. He complained to 
Admiral.
Admiral said the pre-approval process carries out a limited number of checks based on 
available information. And on choosing to progress with the application Mr C would have 
been transferred from the credit broker site to Admirals website. They said their messaging 
is clear that the information given in the application would be subject to further checks.  
Admiral said pre-approval does not guarantee provision of a loan and when an application 
for credit is made, they have a duty as a responsible lender to check across credit file data, 
affordability, and internal underwriting criteria. And make a commercial decision as to who 
they lend to. 
Mr C wasnt happy with their response, he said hed been mis-led into applying for the loan. 
He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said its for Admiral to decide whether they want to lend to Mr C. And said 
Admiral had made clear that in applying for a pre-approved loan it wasnt a guarantee of 
acceptance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint
Firstly, I need to explain that I dont have the power to tell Admiral to lend to Mr C or what
interest rate should be applied. Lending decisions are commercial decisions made by the
lenders underwriters and are based on a review of an individuals circumstances
including income, outgoings, existing levels of debt and their own internal lending criteria.
I can understand Mr Cs frustration as he thought he wouldnt have a problem in being 
accepted for the loan he applied for as he said the wording was clear that he would get it. 
Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I will decide what I think 
most likely happened. And whether Admiral has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions 
with Mr C.
Mr C has shown a screenshot from the credit broker site that shows he is 100% pre-
approved. And has said there was clarification of what pre-approval meant. Mr C said that 
his understanding was that hed be accepted for the loan provided he passed any fraud 
checks and the application details hed given were correct. As he didnt have any issues with 
either of these, he said the wording led him to think the loan would be approved.
But from what I can see the wording Mr C refers to is information on the credit broker 
website about What is pre-approval and how does it work. But this is general information 
and not specific to any lender.
Admiral has given us a screenshot of what would be seen on the credit broker site when a 
consumer has entered their details when searching for a loan. And as Mr C said it would 
show the lender, whether pre-approved (with a percentage) and where applicable triple 
lock guaranteed. But I can see behind the pre-approved wording clarification is provided 
about what this means:
Youll get this product if you apply for it, as long as you pass any additional lender checks 
and all the details you have given us are correct. This why pre-approval is not guaranteed.
I think its clear that being pre-approved isnt a guarantee; its an indicator of eligibility. Also,
its clear this isnt a full application, so its fair to assume more information will be requested
and further checks will be done.
All lenders are required to ensure that they dont lend irresponsibly. And wed expect Admiral 
to complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves that Mr C would be 
able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. Admiral said after theyd checked Mr Cs 
financial situation, they declined his application as they deemed the loan wasnt affordable 
for him.
I know Mr C will be disappointed, but I think Admiral has done what Id expect them to in 
terms of explaining why they chose not to offer him a loan. And I think it was clear that being 
pre-approved wasnt a guarantee that the loan application would be accepted. So, I cant say 
Admiral acted unfairly.
Mr C is concerned about the hard search showing on his credit file. I want to assure him that 
this type of search doesnt show whether an application was approved or declined, its just a 
record that an application was made. Mr C did make an application, so its fair that the 
search remains on his credit file as an accurate reflection of what happened.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman