DRN-3387404
The complaint
Ms Y is unhappy with how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has handled a claim 
on her home insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
In October 2020, Ms Y made a claim for damage to the flooring in both her kitchen 
and upstairs bathroom, she told RSA she had cracks and was concerned she may 
have subsidence.
RSA appointed contractors to investigate the cause of the damage. It determined that 
the damage wasnt a result of subsidence as the pattern and nature of the cracks 
were not consistent with downward foundation movement. It thought the damage was 
possibly a result of differential movement between the rear extension and main 
original house. 
RSA advised Ms Y no cover could be provided as there was no evidence of any 
insured damage.
Ms Y instructed her own builder to carry out works to the property. It said that it found 
that all the joists had dropped and subsided and it had to attach batons to each joist 
to level the floor. Ms Y believes this supports the property has suffered from 
subsidence and wants RSA to cover the costs shes paid under the claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she didnt think the evidence showed 
that Ms Ys property had suffered from subsidence.
Ms Y disagreed and asked for her complaint to be reconsidered. So, it has been passed to 
me, an ombudsman, to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For an Insurance claim to be accepted there has to be an insured peril that the policy 
provides cover for, and its the responsibility of the policyholder to evidence that an insurable 
loss has occurred when making a claim to their insurer.
Ms Y believes her property has suffered from subsidence. Subsidence is the downward 
movement of the ground on which the building stands.
The crux of the issue here is RSA say there is no insured peril, Ms Y believes there is. Ive 
therefore considered the investigations and reports completed by both parties. 
RSA appointed chartered loss adjusters to handle the claim and as it couldnt determine 
from its initial inspection the cause of damage, it appointed a specialist in subsidence 
investigation which Ill refer to as C. 
C carried out ground investigations this included a trial pit bore hole, to look at the 
foundations, it also carried out drain surveys. It could find no evidence of subsidence at the 
property and in its opinion said the damage would appear to be possibly the result of 
differential movement between the rear extensions and the main original house. I find these 
investigations persuasive.
Ms Ys builder provided a quotation for the works which says, Following our investigation 
into the movement in the flooring, in our opinion the cause of the damage is subsidence. I 
appreciate the builder was appointed to complete the repairs and not define the cause, but I 
note the builder has not given any further comments on what the cause of the subsidence is. 
Due to the brief nature of the comments Im not persuaded by this.
Our investigator forwarded the quote, invoices and pictures to RSA for consideration.  
The loss adjustor has considered these findings but said in summary
The photos show that the floor to the extension is a suspended timber floor and the
joists span from front to rear and are supported on metal joist hangers
Ms Ys builder has said the issues are due to subsidence but hasnt
demonstrated this
The damage is typical of the deflection of timber floor joists and as it occurred in
the centre would suggest they are undersized. They say Ms Ys builder supports
this by saying the work will require an engineering dwarf wall to support the centre of
the floor
Theres no evidence that subsidence has occurred and, in its opinion the damage
seems to have been a deflection of the floor joists in the centre of the extension.
Floor tiles will crack when the floor deflects and bend in the centre and over the
edges between the new extension and original house
I note Ms Y has also said her builder told her that in his opinion he felt the construction of the 
upstairs bathroom had placed a pressure on the supporting wall and the joists which had 
caused it to subside. However, there isnt any evidence to support these comments. 
Given the detail of investigations that RSA conducted Im persuaded that the damage hasnt 
been caused by subsidence. I cant see that it has been evidenced that the ground beneath 
the foundations is moving downwards. Because of that, Im satisfied it was fair for RSA to 
decline the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or reject my decision before 
11 May 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman