DRN-1931900
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined his claim for water damage.
What happened
Mr G had standard buildings insurance with UKI. He suffered an escape of water from his 
bathroom and claimed under his policy for the damage caused. UKIs loss adjuster (LA) 
inspected the damage underneath his bath, the landing wall, and the kitchen ceiling. UKI 
declined the claim because the LAs report concluded that the damage had happened 
gradually, causing rot beneath the bath. Mr Gs policy didnt cover him for rot or damage 
which happened gradually.
Mr G complained to UKI because he wouldnt have known about the damage happening 
underneath the bath or in the walls. He said furniture was in front of the damp wall which 
wouldve hidden the damage from view. However, the LA said the rot wouldve taken about a 
year to develop and it was more likely that Mr G wouldve seen evidence of the water 
damage in that time.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. Although he agreed that an escape of water 
was an insured event, he felt that UKI had demonstrated that the policy didnt cover rot or 
gradual damage. So our investigator didnt think UKI had done anything wrong by declining 
Mr Gs claim.
Mr G didnt agree. He thought the evidence showed that he wouldnt have been aware of the 
damage happening.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr G will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
It was Mr Gs responsibility to show that the insured event  the escape of water - had 
happened, and Im satisfied he did. UKI hasnt disputed this. 
Because it declined the claim, it was UKIs responsibility to demonstrate that a policy 
exclusion applied. UKI relied on the following policy exclusions:
Just like most insurers we dont cover:
wear and tear
damage caused by rot, fungus
any damage caused gradually
The LAs report included photographs showing that there was considerable damage 
underneath the bath, with floorboards rotting away. So, I think UKI has fulfilled its 
responsibility to show that the cause of the damage is excluded from cover, and I dont think 
Mr G disagrees with this.
From what Ive seen, the dispute is about whether it was fair for UKI to decline the claim in 
line with the policy exclusions when Mr G says he wasnt aware of the damage happening. 
Ive thought carefully about this and, although finely balanced, I think it was.
UKI provided evidence to show that there was water damage to the wall behind the shower 
and bath on the side facing into the landing area.  The LA reported that the plaster on the 
wall had been patched up a few times, and the damage from this claim wouldve been 
evident for some time before Mr G reported it to UKI. Mr G says he had a shoe storage unit 
in front of that bit of wall so he wouldnt have seen the damage. 
The issue here is that Mr G hasnt been able to show UKI the storage unit which wouldve 
stopped him seeing the damage happening. So UKI declined the claim because, in the 
absence of any evidence to the contrary, there was nothing to indicate that the damage 
wouldve been obscured.
Similarly, Mr G says the damage under the bath was out of sight, behind the bath panel. The 
LAs report shows considerable damage, with the floor rotting and crumbling away under the 
waste pipe, which is indeed under the bath and behind the panel. But, given the extent of the 
rot, the LAs expert opinion is that the water wouldve been leaking for up to a year and it is 
likely that the bathroom wouldve smelt damp. So, I can understand why UKI thought Mr G 
wouldve been aware there was a problem which needed investigating, even if he couldnt 
actually see the cause.
The LA reported that the drip from the shower had caused water marks on the wall beneath 
it, which wouldve been visible. Mr G says the drip from the shower was going directly into 
the bath and had only been there a few days. Unfortunately, as with the shoe storage unit, 
UKI couldnt inspect the bathroom in its existing state at the time of the claim. In the days 
between Mr G making his claim and the LA attending, Mr G renewed the sealant around the 
bath. He explained that when he removed the bath panel to trace the source of the leak, the 
bath moved so he needed to seal it again. So, although UKI couldnt investigate whether the 
water had dripped behind the bath, I think it was reasonable in the circumstances for it to 
rely on the expert opinion set out in the report.  
As I said earlier, its UKIs responsibility to show that it had reason to rely on the policy 
exclusions. I think its fair that UKI relied upon the expert opinion which, in turn, relied on the 
evidence available during inspection. The evidence showed that there was water damage 
which had happened gradually, causing rot and damage to the wall. I think its reasonable for 
UKI to say Mr G wouldve likely been aware of at least one of these areas of damage, each 
of which are excluded from cover under the policy terms and conditions. So I dont think UKI 
did anything wrong by declining Mr Gs claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman