DRN-2414453
The complaint
Mr M says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In 1997 Mr M bought a PPI policy at the same time as he applied for a mortgage in one of 
the banks branches. The policy gave him protection against accident, sickness and 
unemployment. He paid a monthly amount for it. When Mr M took out a further advance in 
2002 he increased the cover on his PPI policy to protect his additional borrowing as well.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, I have reached my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities, in other words what I think is most likely given the available evidence and what 
we know about how Lloyds sold PPI at the time. Lloyds cant provide a policy document from 
1997 so Ive relied on one from the nearest available date.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr M that the PPI was optional, and he had to agree to take it 
out. Mr M says it was a quick process; he trusted the bank; and he has no recollection of PPI 
being explained or being told it was optional.  
I can't know what was said at the time, but I've looked at the available paperwork. On Mr M's 
1997 mortgage application form he indicated that he wanted PPI, and the option to decline it 
was set out with equal prominence. The cost was set out separately on his mortgage offer. 
Lloyds no longer has paperwork from 2002 but thats not surprising or unreasonable given 
how long ago the sale was. I've thought carefully about Mr M's comments, but Im satisfied 
that in 1997 Lloyds make it clear the PPI was optional and Mr M opted to take it out. And 
without stronger evidence I cant fairly conclude it failed to do so in 2002.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr M, so it had to make sure it was right for him. Based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances I think the PPI was suitable. Mr M has told us his 
employment benefits didnt change between 1997 and 2002. He was entitled to six months' 
full pay and six months' half pay if he was sick. But the PPI would have paid out in addition 
to his work benefits and for up to 12 months for each successful accident and sickness 
claim. It also gave him up to 12 months redundancy cover which would have allowed him to 
protect any lump sum redundancy payment giving increased financial stability at an already 
difficult time. 
Mr M borrowed a large sum over a long period secured on his home, that he further 
increased in 2002. Given the serious consequences of missing mortgage payments, I think 
the cover wouldve been useful for Mr M if he was sick, had an accident or lost his job.
Mr M says Lloyds didnt explain the PPI to him. I agree its possible Lloyds didnt give Mr M 
all the information he needed before he decided to buy PPI. But what I need to decide in 
order to conclude the policy was mis-sold is if it's most likely he would have made a different 
decision with better information.
I dont know when Lloyds first made the cost clear in 1997, or at the time of the increase in 
2002, but the PPI was reasonably priced for the benefit it offered. Mr M argues his personal 
circumstances meant he was stretched financially when he took out his mortgage, and whilst 
I sympathise that he under a lot of stress at the time, I havent seen any evidence the PPI 
was unaffordable. I dont know that Lloyds pointed out the main things its likely the PPI 
didnt cover. But Mr M doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things (such as 
the type of employment contract or any pre-existing medical conditions). So on balance I 
dont think it's most likely better information wouldve changed his decision.
It follows I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the PPI to Mr M.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021. 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman