DRN-2426132
The complaint
Miss E is unhappy with information she says she was given by Swinton Group Ltd after she 
got in touch with it about her legal expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss E has had home contents insurance arranged through Swinton for a number of years. 
Alongside that she has legal expenses insurance cover. In December 2018 Miss E had a 
procedure at a hair salon that caused an injury. She says she called Swinton about pursuing 
a personal injury claim but was told she didnt have legal expenses cover. So she appointed 
her own solicitors to progress the claim. 
In June 2020 she contacted Swinton again. She was advised she did have legal expenses 
cover and was referred to the insurers claims handlers. Initially Swinton provided them with 
inaccurate information about the start date of her policy but that was resolved within a week. 
However, the claim was turned down because Miss E hadnt contacted the insurer prior to 
starting proceedings and only after a settlement had been offered.
Miss E said she hadnt done that because Swinton told her she didnt have cover for legal 
expenses. She thought it should pay her solicitors costs. She also said shed incurred 
additional costs because of the error Swinton made over the start date of her policy. Swinton 
said there was no record of Miss E contacting it about her legal expenses policy prior to 
June 2020. 
Our investigator asked Miss E for further information about when she contacted Swinton and 
what number she called from. Miss E said she thought shed called from a work number but 
couldnt provide further information on that. Our investigator noted Swinton had searched its 
records for calls from the numbers Miss E had provided and while it had found some earlier 
calls none of these related to her legal expenses claim. 
So he couldnt say Swinton had got anything wrong here. And he didnt think the recent error 
by Swinton in providing inaccurate information about the policy start date had significantly 
affected the progress of her claim. Miss E didnt agree. In particular she said the second 
error by Swinton meant she incurred solicitors costs in sending emails and making follow up 
phone calls. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Miss E did have legal expenses insurance when the incident at the salon took place 
in December 2018. But she says she was told by Swinton that wasnt the case. And as a 
result she didnt use her policy to pursue the claim. 
The difficulty for Miss E is that there isnt other evidence to support that. Swinton has 
explained that where it receives contact from a consumer a note is added to the 
computerised customer record which enables it to identify any call. But in this case there 
arent any notes relating to the conversation Miss E recalls taking place. Of course its 
possible that because of an error a note wasnt added but I can see Swinton has also 
checked its logs for all inbound calls from the numbers Miss E supplied. And that hasnt 
identified any calls from her which relate to this issue until the call she made in June 2020. 
I appreciate Miss E might have called from a different number and she thinks it could have 
been from her work. But she hasnt been able to provide any further information on what that 
number might have been. I understand thats now more difficult for her because she no 
longer works for the same company but in the absence of further evidence of that call and 
her conversation with Swinton I cant say its done anything wrong here. 
However, its not in dispute Swinton did make an error following the call Miss E made in 
June 2020. Its records suggest that on 30 June it gave the insurers case handlers the wrong 
start date for her policy. I appreciate that will have caused Miss E some inconvenience as I 
understand she then needed to provide policy numbers to show cover was in fact in place. 
But I can see that issue had been resolved by the time Miss E got back in touch with 
Swinton a week later. 
Given the relatively short time taken to resolve this matter I dont think any inconvenience to 
her is something that would justify a payment of compensation. Miss E has also said she 
incurred solicitors costs in relation to this. However, theres no reference to that in the note 
of a call she had with Swinton on 8 July 2020 which records Miss E as saying she provided 
the policy numbers to the insurer. And in any case I dont think this is an issue on which she 
would need input from solicitors. So I dont think any costs she did incur here are ones 
Swinton would be responsible for. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman