DRN-1579486
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) closed his credit card account
after an arrangement to pay had been agreed.
What happened
Mr G had a credit card account with NatWest. On 11 October 2019 he was sent a default
notice giving him 21 days to bring the account up to date as he'd been over his credit limit 
for some months.
On 31 October 2019, Mr G called NatWest. He acknowledged he was in arrears and said he
wanted to pay £300 that day and the outstanding amount by 15 November. And he
anticipated being able to resume his regular payment schedule after that. The advisor said
he could do that though noted a default notice had been issued and said if the second
payment wasnt made the account could be closed.
Mr G made the £300 payment that day and paid the further amount on 15 November. But 
on 5 November NatWest closed the account because the full payment wasn't made in time.
NatWest says thats because once a default notice is issued, it cant override this with
another arrangement to pay. So if the amount requested isnt received by the deadline, the
account will be closed.
However, it accepts it gave Mr G incorrect information about this when he called. And it says 
it ensured the account was closed in a way that avoids a default being registered on his 
credit file. But it says its systems dont allow it to reopen accounts (even if theyve been 
closed incorrectly). It said if Mr G wanted to open another credit card with NatWest he could 
submit a new application. And it offered to pay him £50 to recognise the inconvenience hed 
been caused.
Our investigator agreed NatWest had given him incorrect information. But he thought the
compensation it offered did enough to put things right. Mr G didnt agree. He says NatWest
broke the agreement with him and wants his account reopened. He says if this can't be done 
for administrative reasons, he wants it to issue him with a new account. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
The credit limit on Mr Gs account was £11,700. From at least January 2019, Mr Gs 
balance had been above this. And whilst he was making payments to the account each 
month, he was also continuing to spend on it. This meant he remained over his limit.
Because of this, NatWest decided the account was being operated outside its terms and
conditions. So it sent Mr G a default notice asking him to bring the account up to date by 1
November 2019. I dont think that was unfair given how long the account had been 
operating outside of its agreed credit limit for.
Mr G called NatWest on 31 October and asked to make a part payment of the outstanding
amount. NatWest should have explained that only a full payment of the arrears would be
sufficient to prevent the account closure. But it didnt do so and gave Mr G the impressionthat making a further payment on 15 November would be sufficient. So Ive gone on to think
about whats most likely to have happened if Mr G had been given the correct information.
In order to avoid the account being closed Mr G would have had to pay the arrears in full
when he got in touch with NatWest on the day before the deadline given in the default
notice. Ive listened to the call between NatWest and Mr G and at no point did he suggest he
was in a position to make the payment in full  he was clear he wanted to make an initial
payment of £300 with the balance to follow.
He explained hed had difficulties in making payments because he was self-employed and it
had been a rough six months. That doesnt suggest Mr G was in a position to make full
payment at that time. To bring the account back into order at that point hed need to have
made a payment of nearly £1000. I haven't seen any clear evidence to show he could have
done so.
So even if NatWest had given Mr G the correct information during the call I dont think that
would have prevented his account being closed. Given that I think the £50
compensation NatWest has already offered is fair. I dont think theres more it needs to do
here. Of course Mr G is free to apply for a new credit card with NatWest if he wants.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party has responded to my provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has responded to my provisional decision I don't have any reason to change 
what I said in that decision.  
My final decision
I've decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2020.
James Park
Ombudsman