DRN-3952425
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) applied an Early Repayment 
Charge (ERC) when he redeemed his mortgage. 
He also complains that Halifax mistakenly told him that he didnt need to make his final 
monthly payment.
What happened
Around December 2019, Mr C took out a repayment mortgage with Halifax over 30 years. 
The interest rate on the mortgage was fixed at 3.06% until 31 December 2021.
In August 2021, Mr C asked Halifax what the ERC would be if he repaid his mortgage on 31 
August 2021. Halifax said it would be £2,888.10. Mr C felt that amount was unfair so he 
complained. He paid an ERC of £2,882.65 on 30 September 2021 when he redeemed his 
mortgage.
Halifax said it hadnt done anything wrong, so Mr C raised a complaint with the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into the matter. He didnt think Halifax had made a mistake when it 
applied the ERC. He was satisfied that Mr Cs mortgage offer said that an ERC of 3% of the 
outstanding balance would apply if the mortgage was redeemed on or before 31 December 
2020. And an ERC of 2% of the outstanding balance would apply if the mortgage was 
redeemed on or before 31 December 2021.
Our investigator went on to say why he thought the ERC applied was fair in Mr Cs case with 
reference to the regulatory regime around ERCs. He said Halifax had done enough to tell 
Mr C what his ERC was. Our investigator also considered what Mr C had told him about his 
personal circumstances when he redeemed the mortgage, but he didnt think those 
circumstances meant that Halifax should waive or reduce the ERC.
Mr C also complained about the way his September 2021 mortgage payment was handled. 
Our investigator said that Halifax hadnt been clear that Mr C still needed to make that 
payment and said it should pay Mr C £200 compensation to reflect that. He also said that 
Halifax should remove the adverse information it had recorded on Mr Cs credit file about the 
missed payment between September 2021 and January 2022. 
Halifax agreed to implement our investigators recommendations but Mr C remained 
unhappy. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been 
passed to me to decide. Mr C still thought the ERC was unfair given his personal 
circumstances. He also said that £200 compensation didnt reflect the stress and anxiety 
hed been caused. Nor did he think that £200 was in enough in comparison to the ERC 
charged.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Should Halifax have waived the ERC?
Ill begin by saying that the ERC was clearly documented in the 2019 mortgage offer that 
was sent to Mr C before he took out the mortgage. Im satisfied that Mr C accepted that offer 
and the ERC associated with it. So my starting point is to say that I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Halifax to charge the ERC that Mr C had accepted as part of the contract 
hed entered into when he redeemed the mortgage.
Mr C has told us he sold the mortgaged property in 2021 because he and his partner were 
expecting a baby. He decided to move in with his partner, and as she already owned a 
property near family, he says it made sense for him to move in with her. Mr C told us that his 
partner already had a mortgage on her property, so he couldnt port his mortgage to her 
property. 
Mr C said that having a baby was a significant financial burden that meant he and his partner 
couldnt continue to run two households. So he feels he was effectively forced to sell his 
property and that the ERC should have been waived.
I appreciate Mr Cs position. Ive also taken on board the fact that he has told us that he had 
to sell his property during the covid-19 pandemic and redeem it when he did because the 
buyers of the property werent willing to wait until 31 December 2021 to buy the property. So 
I understand why it made sense for Mr C to sell his property in September 2021 when the 
ERC was due and why it was so frustrating for him to have to pay an ERC when there would 
have been no ERC to pay if hed redeemed his mortgage a few months later. 
However, even if Mr C felt forced by his circumstances to sell it when he did, that wouldnt 
necessarily mean it was unfair for Halifax to charge the ERC. The purpose of an ERC is to 
allow a borrower to repay the mortgage early if their circumstances change  subject to the 
lender recovering the costs of the mortgage ending early. Mr Cs circumstances did change, 
and he made use of the facility to repay early. That means his mortgage operated as it 
should. In deciding this complaint. I also need to consider the costs to Halifax of Mr C 
redeeming the mortgage early. I appreciate that our investigator has already said why 
lenders such as Halifax are allowed to charge ERCs. However, I think its helpful for me to 
set out why again here.  
In order to be able to lend to consumers, lenders will borrow money themselves. As with 
loans made to customers such as Mr C, there are costs associated with borrowing that 
money. If customers repay their borrowing early  as happened in this case  the lender 
wont receive some of the interest it expected to receive. But the lender remains liable for its 
own cost of borrowing the money. 
In light of this, lenders are allowed by the regulator to charge ERCs to cover the costs to 
them of consumers repaying borrowing early. This can be done on an individual mortgage 
basis. However, its more commonly calculated for a tranche of money or group of 
mortgages (of a similar type) and based on a proportion being repaid early. This calculation 
will be based on a lenders experience of the likelihood of early repayment and assessment 
of future conditions. The regulations allow a lender to calculate ERCs in this way. It also 
fulfils the regulators requirement that a consumer is told in advance of taking the mortgage what the ERC will be and is given an example of it in monetary terms.
Mr C thinks the ERC he was charged was disproportionate because it was more than the 
amount of money he would have needed to pay Halifax over the remaining term of the 
interest rate product. 
I appreciate Mr Cs point of view. But the mortgage offer was clear about the amount of the 
ERC and when that would apply. Theres nothing in the offer to say that the ERC should be 
reduced if Mr C decided to redeem the mortgage shortly before the end of the fixed rate 
period. Thats likely to be because there are many factors that are taken into account when 
an ERC is calculated. Under the rules, provided the charge is a reasonable pre-estimate of 
the loss suffered by Halifax if the mortgage is paid early, it can apply the charge. Ive seen 
the evidence of the calculations and Im satisfied that the amount charged in this case was a 
reasonable pre-estimate of loss, calculated across a group of mortgages in the expectation 
that some of them will end early. I appreciate that Mr C wants to see that evidence too. But 
Im satisfied that the calculations are commercially sensitive so it wouldnt be appropriate for 
the Financial Ombudsman Service to share them with Mr C. 
As Im satisfied that the amount charged in this case was a reasonable pre-estimate of loss, 
it follows that I dont think the ERC should be refunded. I appreciate what Mr C has told us 
about his personal circumstances around the time he redeemed his mortgage. But I dont 
think that means that Halifax shouldnt be allowed to recover its costs when Mr C redeemed 
his mortgage early  it was the ERC that allowed him to repay the mortgage when his 
circumstances changed rather than being tied in to the end of the fixed rate term.
The September 2021 mortgage payment
Shortly before he redeemed his mortgage Mr C changed the date he needed to pay his 
monthly direct debit. Mr C spoke to Halifax on the phone after that and told Halifax he was 
going to cancel his direct debit given that he was about to redeem his mortgage. He says 
Halifax told him that he didnt need to make his September 2021 payment if he was going to 
pay the redemption amount before the end of that month. 
I appreciate that was Mr Cs recollection of the relevant phone call. However, Halifax has 
provided us with a recording of the phone call. The Halifax agent said that as long as Mr C 
made the September 2021 monthly payment by the last day of the month, it wouldnt affect 
his credit file. Im not persuaded that Halifax told Mr C that he didnt need to make 
September 2021 payment if he paid the settlement figure and redeemed his mortgage by the 
end of September 2021.
I havent seen a copy of the redemption statement Mr C was sent around this time. However, 
it appears that the statement assumed the September 2021 monthly payment would be 
made as usual, and so the redemption sum didnt take that into account. In other words, 
unless Mr C also paid the September payment, the amount quoted on the redemption 
statement wouldnt be enough to clear the mortgage balance. 
Like our investigator, I think there was some confusion here. Halifax should have been clear 
that the redemption amount set out on the redemption statement didnt include the 
September 2021 mortgage payment. However, I can understand why that happened given 
that the redemption statement was issued around the same time as Mr Cs September 2021 
mortgage payment was due.
I can see that Halifax has agreed to pay Mr C £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience that caused and to remove the adverse information it recorded on Mr Cs 
credit file about the missed payment in September 2021. Halifax has recently provided us with evidence to show that as things stand today there isnt any adverse information on 
Mr Cs credit file about the September 2021 payment, and that his credit file shows that the 
mortgage account is closed.
In the circumstances I think the £200 compensation Halifax has offered is a fair and 
reasonable amount to reflect the nature of Halifaxs mistake, the amount of time Mr Cs 
credit file was affected and the impact of what happened on Mr C. I appreciate that Mr C 
doesnt think £200 compensation is enough. He has told us that Halifax wouldnt remove the 
charge it held over the mortgaged property until the mortgage balance was paid in full  in 
other words until the September 2021 payment was made. 
I appreciate that was stressful for Mr C at a time when he and his partner were having a 
baby. But I cant say that Halifax was wrong to insist on that given that he needed to make 
the September 2021 payment to pay Halifax all the money he owed it. 
Mr C has also said that he feels £200 compensation is disproportionate to the size of the 
ERC. However, as I said above, there are many factors that are taken into account when an 
ERC is calculated. I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to link the 
compensation offered in this case to the size of the ERC. In any case, I dont think the ERC 
was unfair  Im compensating Mr C for the confusion over the September payment, not for 
having to pay the ERC. Ive also considered whether Mr C was prevented from getting credit 
from other lenders as a result of what happened. That doesnt appear to be the case given 
the information available to me. I say that because Mr C asked us to help him get the 
information removed in case he wanted more credit in the future. 
I appreciate that Mr C is likely to be disappointed by this decision, but for the reasons set out 
above I think Halifax should pay Mr C £200 to resolve this complaint. Mr C hasnt provided 
the Financial Ombudsman Service with a copy of his credit file, despite our investigator 
asking him for it. The available evidence shows me that theres nothing more Halifax needs 
to do to put the information it has recorded on Mr Cs credit file about Mr Cs mortgage right.
Putting things right
To put things right Halifax should pay Mr C £200 to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) should pay Mr C the £200 it has offered him to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman