DRN-3429170
The complaint
Mrs D, who is represented by her husband, Mr D, complains that Lex Autolease Ltd failed to 
collect a car at the end of the personal contract hire agreement and imposed charges for late 
return and for damage to the car. She also says that Lex ignored letters and harassed her 
for payment.
The contract is with Mrs D and I note that much of the correspondence was conducted by Mr 
D, but for convenience, in this decision I will refer all actions as being carried out by Mrs D.
What happened
Mrs D entered into a lease agreement with Lex on 28 March 2017 for a period of 48 months. 
Mrs D wrote to Lex on 6 June 2021 asking why the car had not been collected. Mrs D has 
told this service that his wife was unaware of the need to arrange the return of the car and 
had not been informed of this. A rental extension invoice was received on 7 June and Mrs D 
sent an email to Lex on 10 June 
Lex issued a letter on 15 June requesting payment of an overdue amount of £274.61. Mrs D 
responded sending a letter on 20 June setting out what had happened and her concerns. 
Lex issued a letter on 25 June seeking clarification of Mrs Ds current situation. She then 
complained to Lex. This was acknowledged and another rental extension invoice was issued 
by Lex on 4 July. Mrs D emailed Lex on 7 July and asked that it arrange a collection date. 
She was directed to lexs self-serve platform but preferred to have the customer services 
team make contact to arrange collection.
A further email from Lex asked for contact details which Mrs D says they had provided 
previously on 14 July Lex notified Mrs D that the car would be collected on 23 July. Mrs D let 
Lex know that the cars MOT would have expired by that time.
There were subsequent exchanges which Mrs D says demonstrates lack of awareness and 
on 25 July an invoice for damage to the car was sent. Mrs D regarded the charge of £529 as 
exorbitant.  
Lex continued to seek payment of the rental extension sums and the damages charge. It 
also responded to the complaint and offered £50 compensation as it could have responded 
earlier to her request received on 30 June for the car to be collected. Mrs D didnt pay the 
arrears and in due course she received a phone call from Lex which she says added to her 
stress. She explained she suffered from a medical condition and had been advised to avoid 
stress.
She then brought her complaint to this service and asked that we dismiss the claim made by 
Lex and direct it to pay her costs of storage and correspondence of £1,3315 plus 
compensation.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. He noted that Lex had said the earliest date it was made aware that Mrs D wanted 
the car to be collected was 30 June and as the terms and conditions require seven days 
notice it had agreed no rental charges were due after 7 July. He suggested to Lex that as a 
tracked letter sent by Mr D had been received by Lex on 22 June no rental charges should 
be applied from 30 June. Lex agreed and it also agreed to review the charge for the missing 
service book if Mrs D advised it directly of the service history.
However, he didnt think that Lex need do anymore to address the complaint. He checked 
the tracked details of the letter sent by Mrs D on 6 June and noted that it indicated that it had 
not been delivered. He also looked at the email sent on 10 June and noted it was not listed 
as a contact email address for Lex. He felt that it was fair to conclude that the first 
notification that the car was to be collected was 22 June. 
As for the collection activity he said that Lex was not obliged to suspend contact when a 
complaint was made to this service. That said he noted Lex had paid further compensation 
of £49 for incorrect information being include on one letter.
On the matter of the damage charges he said he had not seen a complaint being raised to 
Lex to allow it to respond. However, he reviewed the inspection report and he was satisfied 
the charges had been applied correctly.
Mrs D didnt agree and said Lex had not provided sufficient clarity. She also said that the 
issue of her costs had not been addressed. She also felt that Lex had not met industry 
standards.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mrs D, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not because I 
havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. But, 
Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to reaching a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Firstly, I should make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award redress where appropriate. I do not perform the role of 
the industry regulator and I do not have the power to make rules for financial businesses or 
to punish them.
I appreciate that Mrs D has been frustrated by the returns process and has felt let down by 
Lex, but I dont consider I can uphold her complaint. I will explain why. 
Mrs D entered into a contract with Lex in 2017 which contained the following: 
Section 3 (b) states: Subject to clauses 10(1), 12 to 18 below, the Agreement shall continue 
in force for the Duration of the Hire set out overleaf (the minimum period) and thereafter 
shall continue until terminated by either of us or you giving to the other not less than 1 
months written notice to that effect such notice only to be given so as to expire after the end 
of the Minimum Period.
Section 17 states: If the Vehicle is not returned to us by the date of the termination or the 
date of expiry of the Agreement we reserve the right to charge you for its continuing use. 
The charge will be equal to the monthly rental although you will be liable to pay for each day 
of continuing use.
This means that although the agreement was for a period of 48 months it was open to her to retain the vehicle if she so desired. She has told this service that the broker had written to 
her a year before the agreement was due to end and she had told it that it had another year 
to run. This indicates she was aware that the term of the agreement had come to an end in 
March 2021. According to the evidence I have seen her first attempt at contact with Lex was 
not until June 2021.
It would appear that she presumed it was up to Lex to arrange collection. That is not the 
case. I appreciate it would have been more convenient had Lex drawn her attention to the 
end of the agreement. I have looked at Lexs website and it sets out what to do at the end of 
an agreement and has a portal which allows customers to arrange collection. I believe this 
facility was available in 2021. 
So, while Mrs D presumed it wasnt her responsibility to return the car she retained access to 
it and was able to make use of it. In turn Lex was deprived of access to its asset for which it 
is entitled to charge.
As for the charges Mrs D wishes to impose on Lex there is nothing in the agreement which 
says that Lex will pay for storage or for the costs of correspondence. In the circumstances I 
can see no basis for saying that it should pay Mrs D for keeping its asset beyond the term of 
the agreement.
I cannot say why the initial letter was not delivered, but Mrs D was able to track it and would 
have seen that delivery had not been made. The email was sent to an address which Lex 
says is wrong. As I have mentioned above Lex offered an online returns and collection 
process on its website which it appears Mrs D chose not to use. While she was entitled to 
take a different approach, I can understand why this may have caused some delays and 
confusion within Lex. Having read all the correspondence I cannot say that Lex has behaved 
unreasonably. 
I have also considered if Lex behaved unreasonably in pursuing the debt owed by Mrs D. I 
believe it is reasonable for Lex to have made Mrs D aware of the debt and how it was 
increasing. I can understand that she may have felt this was harassment and was not helpful 
given her doctors advice to avoid stress. Lex had a balance to strike between avoiding 
harassment, but at the same time ensuring Mrs D was aware that she owed the money and 
of the potential consequence of her failure to pay. I gather Lex has since written off the debt 
and defaulted the account.
I dont believe it got that balance wrong. I would add that it wasnt obliged to stop pursuing 
the debt once a complaint had been made to this service.
In conclusion I cannot say that Lex did anything materially wrong in its handling of this 
matter. 
My final decision
Lex Autolease Ltd has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Lex Autolease Ltd should pay £50 if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Ivor GrahamOmbudsman