DRN-3025069
The complaint
Mr P complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited, trading as Argos Card, did 
not renew his store card when it expired, and never increased his credit limit in six years.
What happened
In 2015 Mr P obtained a store card with Argos. The credit limit was £200, and this was never 
increased. He eventually complained about that, and Argos told him that he did not qualify 
for a credit limit increase under its lending criteria. Mr P did not pursue that matter further at 
the time.
In May 2021, when Mr Ps card was due to expire, Argos wrote to him again to say he did 
not qualify for a new card. Mr P complained directly to our service about both issues. He 
wanted his card to be renewed, and an apology. He told us he had always managed his card 
well, and had always made his payments on time and had always paid more than the 
minimum payment.
Argos sent us, without comment, some of Mr Ps statements from the period 2017 to 2021. 
(I summarise these in the next section.)
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said Argoss terms and conditions said 
that the renewal of the card was at Argoss discretion, and it was entitled to refuse. He 
thought this decision would have been based on a review of the account by Argos to see if it 
was providing credit responsibly.
Mr P accepted that the terms and conditions said Argos could refuse to renew the card, but 
he argued that Argos still had a duty to exercise its discretion in good faith, having regard to 
its customers interests. He said the investigator had not considered that, and he asked for 
an ombudsman to review his case. He added that Argos had recently issued him with a new 
card, and he suggested that this meant that Argos had reversed its position.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I accept Mr Ps argument that Argos has to make decisions about him in good faith. But 
I also accept that it has done that. I have reached that conclusion based on the statements it 
has provided, which show that he has not always succeeded in managing his account well. 
I have summarised them below:
June 2017 = exceeded his credit limit
January and March 2018 = missed his minimum payments
September 2019 = missed minimum payment, exceeded credit limit, account in 
arrears
January 2020 = missed minimum payment
June 2020 = exceeded limit
October 2020 = missed minimum payment, exceeded credit limit, account in arrears
November 2020 = missed payment
Its not within my remit to review Argoss lending criteria and tell it to be less strict. Argos is 
entitled to decide for itself to withdraw a credit facility from a customer, and in the light of the 
above account history, particularly in 2020, I think that Argos made a decision it was entitled 
to make. For the same reason, I think Argos was entitled to keep Mr Ps credit limit where it 
was.
I dont think that the new card Argos has issued means that Argos has reversed its position. 
I see that the letter it sent him in May includes the following sentence:
We will continue to monitor your account for the next few months and if your 
situation changes, we may be able to send you a new Argos card.
That is all that has happened. Its not a review of the original decision not to renew the card, 
but a new decision based on new circumstances.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman