DRN-3364718
The complaint
Mr S complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) failed to dispense money from an 
ATM but still deducted the money from his account and declined to refund it.
What happened
Mr S says he used a cash machine on 2 July 2021 to withdraw £110 to pay his friend back. 
He thought the cashpoint was faulty as no money came out and he saw an insufficient 
funds message even though hed received his benefit payment and had enough for the 
withdrawal to be made. Mr S says he tried again at a different cash point but his account 
showed the £110 had been withdrawn and the request was rejected due to having 
insufficient funds. 
Mr S contacted Nationwide and told it about the problem. Nationwide temporarily credited Mr 
Ss account with £110 while investigating the matter. Nationwide then got back in touch with 
Mr S and said the investigation hadnt shown any problems with the ATM. It also said the 
evidence showed he used the same cash point twice and, although the second transaction 
was declined due to insufficient funds, the first was made successfully. So, as itd dispensed 
the money, itd take the temporary credit back from Mr S. 
Mr S complained to Nationwide about this and it considered the matter but didnt agree itd 
got anything wrong.
Mr S brought his complaint to our service for an independent review. One of our 
investigators considered matters and thought Nationwide had given sufficient evidence to 
show the ATM properly dispensed the £110 to Mr S. The records from the ATM showed itd 
been successfully used just before and just after Mr S was at the machine and the cash for 
Mr Ss transaction showed as cash taken. Further, the ATM was balanced on 3 July and 
didnt show there was a cash difference matching the amount Mr S said he was missing. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said the ATM had been dodgy for a long time and the CCTV 
shouldve been looked at to show he was telling the truth. Our investigator questioned why 
Mr S would use an ATM that he knew was dodgy and explained although he didnt have 
access to any CCTV, based on the evidence hed seen, he considered it more likely the 
money was dispensed.
The complaint has now been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S and Nationwide have different versions of what happened at the cash machine. Where 
there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I 
must decide what I consider is more likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence. 
Although several matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I think 
are the main issues. However, Ive considered all the submissions made before arriving at 
my decision, including information provided by the operator of the ATM.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr S I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome here. 
So, I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Mr Ss testimony is that the machine failed to dispense the £110 he requested. Nationwide 
supplied records for the ATM showing that the £110 requested by Mr S was dispensed from 
the machine. Records also show the machine dispensed money to another customer just 
prior to Mr Ss withdrawal. They also show the machine was successfully used to withdraw 
money almost straight after Mr Ss transaction at the ATM from another account. 
ATMs by their nature have several systems to ensure they work properly and back-up 
systems in case of problems. If the machine had failed to dispense Mr Ss money, I would 
expect the records of the machine to show that. This would also be apparent when the 
machine was balanced because the records and the cash left in the machine wouldnt 
match. There would, in effect, be £110 more in the machine than there should be. But that 
wasnt the case here as the ATM provider confirmed this. 
There were also successful withdrawals both shortly before and after Mr S used it. If the 
ATM was malfunctioning that day, Id expect to see different records, either to show money 
had been moved to the purge bin, or that the ATM hadnt balanced. If there were cash 
traps or other unauthorised devices attached, Id expect to see several complaints about the 
ATM, but I havent seen any evidence this happened either. 
I appreciate what Mr S has said and, whilst its possible the transaction wasnt processed 
correctly, I dont think I could say this was more likely to be what happened based on the 
evidence provided by Nationwide and the operator of the ATM. 
Taking everything into account, I think its more than likely the transaction Mr S made at the 
ATM on 2 July was processed correctly. It follows Nationwide came to a fair and reason 
decision when declining his claim in this matter.
Mr S has made the point that CCTV wasnt checked. Nationwide was satisfied the records 
from the ATM demonstrated the money was properly dispensed. The CCTV isnt available to 
me and so I cant take it into account in reaching this decision. Even so, I dont consider this 
is likely to change the outcome in this particular matter. I say this because I have no reason 
to doubt the accuracy of the data supplied by Nationwide and the ATM owner. So, this 
doesnt change my finding Nationwide has acted fairly and reasonably in reaching the 
decision to decline Mr Ss claim.
As I dont uphold Mr Ss main complaint, it follows Nationwide was entitled to take back the 
temporary credit it gave to him. Im pleased to note, however, it did so after writing to Mr S to 
let him know this would happen.
I know Mr S will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to resolve his dispute with Nationwide  can do for him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman