DRN-2369651
The complaint
Miss F and Mr W have complained that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them a packaged 
bank account, called a Platinum Vantage account.
Miss F and Mr W paid a monthly fee for the account and received several potential benefits 
in return. They think that Bank of Scotland should refund them all the fees they paid, plus 
interest.
What happened
Bank of Scotland sold the Platinum Vantage account to Miss F and Mr W during 2017. At 
that time, the potential benefits of the account included travel insurance, use of a car 
breakdown service and insurance for mobile phones. 
Unfortunately, when Miss F and Mr W were abroad, Mr W was injured in a traffic accident 
and had to go to hospital for emergency treatment. He and Miss F have told us that they 
tried to claim on the travel insurance but werent able to. They have described the policy as a 
minefield of uncertainty. They think that Bank of Scotland mis-sold them the Platinum 
Vantage account by mis-leading them about the nature of the travel insurance it provided. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Miss F and Mr Ws complaint and didnt 
think that Bank of Scotland mis-sold the Platinum Vantage to them. Miss F and Mr W didnt 
agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review their case. So, 
it has come to me to make a final decision.
Bank of Scotland did not provide the travel insurance itself. It used a separate insurance 
company to do this. I understand that Miss F and Mr W have made a separate complaint 
against the insurance company concerning the claim they tried to make. I would therefore 
like to clarify that in this decision I have only considered the way Bank of Scotland sold the 
Platinum Vantage account to Miss F and Mr W. I have not considered the merits of either 
their potential insurance claim or any complaint against the insurer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do in Miss F and Mr Ws case. Ive 
looked into everything that Miss F and Mr W and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us 
about the complaint, and Ive decided not to uphold it. I will explain why in a moment, but first 
I would like to pass on my best wishes to Mr W after his accident. I understand that his 
injuries were serious, and I hope and trust that he is making a good recovery. 
In 2017, Bank of Scotland, along with other banks, was allowed to sell packaged bank 
accounts in two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an information-only 
(or non-advised) basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. Whichever approach Bank 
of Scotland used for Miss F and Mr W, as well as giving them a choice, I would have 
expected it to tell them about the Platinum Vantages costs and benefits clearly and fairly; 
and in an advised sale, I would also have expected it to check if they needed the benefits 
which the account could provide before making any recommendation. 
Both parties have told us that Bank of Scotland sold the account to Miss F and Mr W during 
a meeting at one of its branches, but the other details are less clear. In some of Bank of 
Scotlands correspondence, it has said it didnt give any advice, but on our questionnaire, it 
said it made a recommendation. So, in fairness to Miss F and Mr W, I have considered this 
case to have been an advised sale which Bank of Scotland made during a meeting at one its 
branches. 
I understand that Miss F and Mr W drove a car, used at least one mobile phone and 
travelled quite frequently. So, they seem to have had a potential need for the range of the 
benefits that the Platinum Vantage account could provide, and I think it was reasonable for 
Bank of Scotland to recommend it to them. And there doesnt seem to be any dispute that it 
told them about the monthly fees and the benefits and allowed them a choice. However, as 
mentioned above, the crux of their complaint is that they believe that Bank of Scotland 
misled them about the travel insurance. 
Miss F and Mr W have made two main points. They have said that when they tried to make a 
claim the process was too complicated and Bank of Scotland hadnt told them about all the 
steps they would need to take; and that when Bank of Scotland sold them the account, it 
said the insurance policy offered cover for medical emergencies of up to £10million, but the 
hospital or insurance staff they spoke to while abroad said the limit was much lower. I have 
considered each of these in turn.
Bank of Scotland didnt explain the complexities of making a claim
Miss F and Mr W have told us that when they tried to make their claim, there were emails to 
and fro between the insurance company and the hospital, and also several phone calls and 
paper forms to sign; which left them uncertain about what was covered. So, at the time, they 
decided not to claim. They have said that if Bank of Scotland had told them how complicated 
making a claim could be, they wouldnt have bought the account.
I have seen a copy of a document called Insurance Product Information Booklet which I 
understand Bank of Scotland sent or gave to Miss F and Mr W. This booklet said that to 
make a claim, customers must provide . evidence needed to substantiate (the claim). I 
think this is a fair requirement. The emails, phone calls and forms may well have contributed 
to this evidence, and it seems reasonable to me for there to have been some exchanges 
between the hospital and the insurer. I havent seen anything to make me think that Bank of 
Scotland misled Miss F and Mr W about this requirement, or tried to hide it from them. 
I dont know much about the precise content of these emails or phone calls or the particular 
forms which Mr W or Miss F were asked to sign, but if they contained anything which was 
incorrect or unfair to Miss F and Mr W (for example, something that was too onerous for 
them to comply with following the accident), then it may be a consideration in their complaint 
about the insurer; but it doesnt affect my assessment of whether Bank of Scotland mis-sold 
the account to them.
Bank of Scotland told Miss F and Mr W that the maximum claim for medical expenses was 
£10million but the insurer or hospital staff said it was lowerBank of Scotland has told us it gave Miss F and Mr W a Welcome Pack for the account 
which described its potential benefits. I have seen a copy this pack and it says that the travel 
insurance provides: 
 
Comprehensive cover including:
Emergency medical cover (up to £10,000,000).
The information booklet I mentioned previously also says that emergency medical cover can 
be up to £10million. So, I dont think Bank of Scotland misled Miss F and Mr W. It seems to 
have given them the correct limit of £10million.
Im not sure who told Miss F and Mr W that the limit for claims was less that £10million, in 
what context. or for what reason. Again, it may be a consideration in their complaint about 
the insurer; but it doesnt affect my assessment of whether Bank of Scotland mis-sold the 
account to them. I dont think Bank of Scotland misled Miss F and Mr W about the limit to 
claims for medical emergencies. 
So, in summary, although I accept that Bank of Scotland may not have done everything right 
in the way it sold the Platinum Vantage account to Miss F and Mr W, Im satisfied it was 
reasonable for it to recommend the account to them, that it told them about the benefits and 
the fees they would have to pay and that it gave them a choice. And I doubt that it misled 
them about how to make a claim or about the maximum limit for a claim for a medical 
emergency. I dont think Bank of Scotland mis-sold the Platinum Vantage account to Miss F 
and Mr W. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Miss F and Mr Ws complaint about 
Bank of Scotland plc. I am not going to tell it to give them any money back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2020. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman