DRN-1748019
The complaint
Miss B complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited failed to process an online 
payment, causing a late payment to be recorded on her credit file. She said she shouldnt be 
held accountable for a technical error on their website. 
What happened
Miss B had a Littlewoods catalogue account with Shop Direct Finance Company Limited 
(Shop Direct). Each month she paid the minimum payment by logging into her online 
account. On 25 January 2019 Miss B logged into her account and paid £19.00 for the 
payment due by 1 February. On 29 January she noticed her account balance hadnt gone 
down - so she paid again, and said she received a transaction successful message. A few 
weeks later Miss B received a letter saying that shed missed a payment on her account - so 
she logged into the account and cleared the balance in full. 
Miss B contacted the business and told them that she had attempted to pay on time. She 
said  she could provide bank statements to show that there was no reason why the 
payments would have been declined. She said that she should not be held liable for what 
she thought was a technical issue with the sites payment system  and that she wanted the 
late payment removed from her credit file. Shop Direct didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint, 
saying that her payment wasnt successful as it was declined by her bank. 
Miss B didnt agree with Shop Direct and brought her complaint to us saying that she thought 
the payment had been successful. The investigators view was that the complaint should be 
upheld because Miss B had logged into her account and tried to make the payment. He said 
the issue was whether Miss B knew that the payment had been unsuccessful as she said 
shes been directed to the transaction successful page. The investigator asked Miss B for 
bank statements showing her available balance on the 25 and 29 January 2019. 
Shop Direct didnt agree with the investigators view and said they would wait for the further 
information requested from Miss B. 
The additional information hasnt been received and as Shop Direct didnt agree with the 
investigator, the case has been referred to me to for review.
In March 2020 my provisional decision was sent out to both Miss B and Shop Direct - 
requesting any further information to be sent to me. As Shop Direct have now confirmed they 
have no further information, and Ive not received any further information from Miss B - Ive 
based my final decision on the information available to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint. Ill 
explain why.
I have considered statements provided by Shop Direct and can see they requested that the 
minimum payment reach the account by 1 February 2019. From the accounts activity log 25 
January 2019, I can see that Miss B logged into the account and attempted to make the 
payment by entering the payment and account summary page. I can see that on 29 January 
2019 a further attempt was made - entering the payment page, but I cant see any evidence 
of Miss B being directed to the transaction successful page. This alone didnt persuade me 
that Miss B wouldve known that the payment wasnt successful.  
I have also considered a payment record from December 2018 where Miss B paid via her 
online account in the same way. The account activity record on this occasion shows that 
Miss B was directed to the transaction successful page, and the business confirmed that a 
text or email would have followed confirming the successful payment. I believe it would be 
reasonable to say that she wouldve received the same additional confirmation 29 January 
2019 had the payment been successful. Im satisfied that without this Miss B couldnt have 
been sure that the payment was made.
In summary Miss B would have been expected to make her contractual payments in line with 
the terms and conditions of the account. While I accept that Miss B attempted to pay on 25 
and 29 January  the payments didnt go through.
While Miss B may not have been aware of this at the time of payment, it would be 
reasonable to say that this information would have been available to her. This would be 
either when she next logged into her account  1 February, according to the account log 
provided by the business  or when she didnt receive confirmation by text or email. It would 
have been normal for Miss B to receive confirmation in this way. Miss B was also made 
aware of the arrears and late payment fee in statement 110 produced 9 February 2019 
which was sent out by post, but the account remained unpaid until 7 March 2019. 
Ive seen a copy of Miss Bs credit file and can see that the late payment information was 
shared for February 2019 and reported in March 2019. I cant fairly say that the business 
has done anything wrong in applying the late payment information, or adding the £12 late 
payment fee, both in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
My final decision
While I appreciate this will disappoint Miss B, I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I 
have outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Sarah Watts
Ombudsman