DRN-3969016
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax recorded adverse 
information on his credit file.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons.
Firstly, its not in dispute that Mr R missed his minimum payment and as such, a late 
payment marker was applied to the account.
I have considered the fact Mr R has received previous statements since the account was 
opened in 2021, along with Mr Rs statement to our service that I have never missed any 
mortgage payments or finance agreement payments/credit card payments with any other 
company other than Halifax in 30 years. With that in mind, I am satisfied that Mr R would 
have been aware he could access his monthly statements via his online banking application. 
As such he ought to have been aware of the minimum payment he was required to make.
I have also considered that based on Mr Rs comments to our service he would have been 
aware that it is his responsibility to ensure he makes the minimum payment and would be 
aware of the consequences of not making the minimum payment. However, in the avoidance 
of doubt I am satisfied the terms and conditions of the account say:
A7. Payments
You must make at least the minimum payment by the payment due date each month if you 
owe a balance on your statement.
And 
Missing payments could have severe consequences, such as legal action against you to 
recover your debt or negative feedback from us to credit reference agencies, which may 
make getting credit more difficult for you in future
Therefore, I am satisfied that Mr R was aware that it was his responsibility to ensure he 
made the minimum payments and was aware of the consequences of not making the 
minimum payment.
Mr R believes Halifax ought to have done more to notify him that a payment was due. Halifax 
has provided evidence to show that it sent Mr R a SMS message in relation to the payment 
in question. Mr R disputes receiving this message. And while I dont dispute Mr Rs 
recollection of events, I am satisfied Halifax sent the messages. 
That said, Halifax commented that sending a SMS message does not form part of the Terms 
& Conditions. I dont agree, the Terms and Conditions state:
We will contact you using the details you give us. If we say we will write to you, we will send 
a letter or write to you in some other way that we reasonably think is suitable. Examples 
include email, text or including a message in your statement or by providing information in 
your secure personal area in Internet Banking.
However, the Terms and conditions also say:
If we send you information using Internet Banking, you will receive an email from us when a 
document is ready for you to view.
As Mr Rs statements were sent to his internet banking, I understand why he would be under 
the impression that he would receive an email explaining he had a document ready to view, 
in line with the terms and conditions of the account. Halifax has said it did issue emails but 
has been unable to provide system notes to support this. Therefore, our investigator felt this 
had been a service failing. I agree that Halifax ought to be able to evidence emails on its 
systems to show the emails had been sent. As such, I cant be satisfied this was the case. I 
appreciate Mr Rs frustrations in relation to the service he has received and what he 
expected. However, it doesnt negate Mr Rs responsibly to ensure the minimum payment 
was made.
So, I have gone on to consider if it was fair for Halifax to pass this information to credit 
reference agencies. Halifax has a regulatory obligation to report true and accurate 
information to credit reference agencies. And it makes it clear in the Terms and Conditions 
that it may do this if there are missed payments. For this reason, I am satisfied that Halifax 
has acted fairly in regard to this, so I wont be asking it to remove the adverse information it 
recorded
Putting things right
Halifax should pay Mr R £100 for the reasons I have explained above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax to pay Mr R £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman