DRN-1735145
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the service she received from Toyota Insurance Management SE 
(Toyota) when setting up a new motor insurance policy. 
What happened
On 2 October 2019 Mrs S spoke to Toyota to set up a new insurance policy. During that call, 
Toyota agreed to pay Mrs S up to £50 to cover the cancellation costs of her previous 
insurance provider. That payment was made on 7 November 2019. Mrs S complained to 
Toyota. She said it took an unreasonable amount of time to make the £50 payment. Toyota 
upheld her complaint. It said it hadnt been clear with Mrs S of the timescale involved in 
making such a payment once the necessary evidence had been received. Toyota 
apologised.   
Mrs S didnt accept Toyotas response and asked our service to consider her complaint. She 
said Toyota took too long to pay the £50 despite her chasing, and given shed provided the 
necessary supporting evidence promptly. Mrs S said shed also incurred costs because of 
mistakes by Toyota, and was concerned that her date of birth was wrong on Toyotas 
records. Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said whilst Toyota 
couldve handled things better, he didnt think Mrs S had been caused any financial loss or 
difficulty. Our investigator also felt Toyota had adequately addressed the mistake in Mrs Ss 
date of birth, and that there was no evidence the mistake had caused her any harm. 
Mrs S didnt agree with our investigator and so her complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. She said Toyota had failed to follow its procedures, and shed incurred costs 
in having to make a number of unnecessary phone calls. Mrs S was also concerned wed 
not properly considered the impact of the mistake in her date of birth, and how this had 
compromised Toyotas security procedures and put her data at risk.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mrs S. I appreciate shes spent time and energy 
pursuing her complaint and feels strongly that shes incurred unnecessary costs and 
inconvenience. But Id like to take some time to explain how Ive reached my decision.  Ive 
read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
It might help if I first outline some of the key events that took place. From listening to the 
phone call on 2 October 2019, I can see Toyota spoke to Mrs S about the £50 refund, and 
the need for her to provide evidence of the cost of cancelling her previous policy. Toyota made no reference to there being any urgency for this information  nor did it mention that 
the £50 wouldnt be paid until the policy had been in place for 30 days. 
Being unaware of the 30 day timeframe, Mrs S understandably wanted the refund to be paid 
as soon as possible, and so sent paperwork to Toyota on 12 October 2019. Toyota couldnt 
accept this and wrote back to Mrs S on 16 October 2019. Mrs S sent further paperwork on 
19 October 2019 and she called Toyota on 25 October 2019 for an update. It told Mrs S the 
paperwork had been received and the payment would be processed. Mrs S called Toyota 
again on 30 October 2019. At which point she was told the payment couldnt be made until 
the policy had been in place for 30 days. Mrs S called Toyota again on 7 November 2019. 
Toyota confirmed the payment had been processed. It also noticed Mrs Ss date of birth had 
been recorded incorrectly and changed it. 
Looking first at the postal costs incurred by Mrs S, I dont think this was increased because 
Toyota did anything wrong. The information Mrs S sent on 12 October 2019 wasnt sufficient 
and so she needed to send more. So, I cant see how any of the postal costs incurred by 
Mrs S are due to mistakes by Toyota.   
Turning now to the phone calls Mrs S made to Toyota. Mrs S says she contacted Toyota on 
9 and 14 October 2019 to chase the payment. I've not got a record of these calls. But given 
Toyota had explained to Mrs S on 2 October 2019 what she needed to provide in terms of 
documentation, and she hadnt yet provided that documentation, its not clear why there was 
a need for Mrs S to chase Toyota for payment at this time. 
I can understand why Mrs S called Toyota on 25 October 2019 to check the documentation 
had been received. Toyota confirmed this to be the case, and said the refund was being 
processed. Because Toyota hadnt made it clear to Mrs S in previous communication that 
the £50 refund wouldnt be made until the policy had been in place for 30 days, I can 
appreciate why she felt the need to call again for an update. But given the assurances shed 
been given in the previous call, I think Mrs S called Toyota on 30 October 2019 through 
choice, rather than necessity. And given the refund was processed within the timeframe 
Toyota outlined to Mrs S during the 30 October 2019 call, I cant agree that mistakes or 
misinformation by Toyota directly resulted in Mrs S needing to make any further calls to 
Toyota about the refund after this point.
So, I wont be asking Toyota to reimburse Mrs S for the cost of these calls. Toyota accepts it 
shouldve made it clear from the outset when the payment would be made, and has 
apologised. I think Toyota has done enough here to recognise its mistake, and its apology is 
in line with what Id expect to see offered in similar cases.  
I can also see Mrs S is concerned about the number of calls she made to Toyota to chase a 
response to her complaint. When Toyota acknowledged Mrs Ss complaint on 5 November 
2019, it said she should get a response within 4 weeks. So, any calls Mrs S made to Toyota 
before that 4 week deadline (3 December 2019) wouldve been her choice to make. I can 
understand why Mrs S called Toyota after this date. But she was provided with an update 
and the final response was issued on 9 December 2019. In that response, Toyota 
apologised for the delay and explained the reasons for it.  Taking all this into account, I cant 
see that Toyotas actions caused Mrs S any significant difficulty or inconvenience, and the 
apology its provided for the delayed response is sufficient and what Id expect to see. So, I 
wont be asking Toyota to take any further action. 
I completely understand Mrs Ss concerns around her date of birth being incorrectly 
recorded, and how this wasnt picked up sooner by Toyota as part of its security checks. But 
this was corrected and Ive seen no evidence Mrs Ss data has in any way been 
compromised. So, I wont be asking Toyota to take any action here. If Mrs S has concerns about her data in the future, then she should bring that to Toyotas attention. Or she may 
wish to contact the Information Commissioners Office.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman