DRN-2234394
The complaint
The estate of the late Ms K complains that Phoenix Life Limited has refused to pay out on an 
annuity policy.
The estate is represented by Mr H1 (Ms Ks grandson).
What happened
The policies in this complaint were taken out with a predecessor business of Phoenix, but for 
ease of reading Ill refer to Phoenix in the decision.
In early 1985 when she was in her late seventies Ms K took out an annuity policy (ending 
497) and a life policy with Phoenix, apparently through a financial advisor. Ms K sadly 
passed away in August 1987 without leaving a Will. 
Many years later, in August 2019 Mr H1 was appointed administrator of Ms Ks estate, 
having been traced by another business as Ms Ks relative. While looking through Ms Ks 
papers Mr H1 discovered two policy documents which he believed form part of his 
inheritance. So he contacted Phoenix to claim the benefits. Phoenix said there were no 
monies outstanding against policy 497, so they must have been claimed at some point in the 
past. But it advised him the life policy (ending 561) had a net surrender value which hadnt 
been claimed. 
Mr H1 didnt think that could be right. Ms K was his maternal grandmother - his mother, Ms 
Ks only child, having died in the 1960s when he was young. His father (Mr H2) had 
remarried, and while hed dealt with things after Ms K passed away, hadnt obtained Grant of 
Probate so the proceeds for policy 497 couldnt have been released. Mr H1 supported this 
by providing a copy of a letter Phoenix wrote in August 1989 to his father explaining it 
couldnt release the policy proceeds without a copy of the Grant of Probate and completed 
discharge form. So Mr H1 complained saying Phoenix should pay him the money. Phoenix 
didnt uphold the complaint repeating it had no record of policy 497 so the benefits must 
have been claimed some years previously, and the 1989 letter didnt prove otherwise. But in 
September 2019 it paid him around £11,250 plus £20,045 late payment interest in respect of 
policy 561. 
Mr H1 remained unhappy and complained to this service as hed found no evidence Ms Ks 
estate had ever received the proceeds of policy 497. He questioned how it could have done 
so when both policy documents were in Ms Ks papers, and his father hadnt been granted 
probate to claim it. And it made no sense for one policy to be claimed and not the other. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He was satisfied Phoenix had thoroughly 
searched its legacy systems, where any unclaimed policies would be held in suspense. In 
the absence of evidence it was reasonable to conclude the policy must have paid out, but it 
wasnt surprising Phoenix didnt have the claim records given Ms K died more than 30 years 
ago. So he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr H1 didnt think it was good enough for Phoenix to say the policy must have paid out 
without being able to show who benefitted. He wanted to know how frequently Phoenix paid 
out without proper authority or the policy documents being surrendered. So the investigator 
asked Phoenix to comment on these points. It couldnt say what the process might have 
been in the past for the predecessor business, but it seemed reasonable to say there 
wouldve been a procedure to cope with such situations. It wouldnt require the policy 
document to pay the claim, just a completed form, and currently it had discretion to deal with 
policies valued at less than £25,000 without probate. So this didnt change the investigators 
mind. 
Mr H1 was still unhappy at the lack of proof, so he asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I realise this will be disappointing for Mr H1 so let 
me explain why.
I do appreciate Mr H1s frustration at not being able to get a definitive answer on what 
happened, but these events took place a long time ago. So other than the documents 
provided by Mr H1 theres a lack of conclusive records, as businesses are generally only 
required to keep historic information for six years. So where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, as it is here, Ive based my conclusion on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The policy Ms K purchased, which Mr H2 arranged on her behalf, cost a single premium of 
£8,000 and was designed to pay her an annual income of £1,300. It was purchased along 
with the life policy when her house was sold to pay care home fees. The policy had no 
guarantee period but on Ms Ks death the balance would be payable to her estate. The letter 
from 1989 confirms the balance was around £5,073 which ties in with Ms K passing away 
only two years after the policy started. The letter does remind Mr H2 hed need to obtain 
probate to receive the money, but it also invites him to explain the delay in providing it. So I 
think there could have been further correspondence following that letter which hasnt 
survived. 
Mr H1 has explained his father is now elderly and infirm and finds talking about this 
upsetting, so hasnt been able to shed much light on what happened. So its not clear why 
Mr H2 didnt pursue obtaining probate for Ms Ks estate, although I bear in mind he wasnt a 
direct relative. Mr H1 says hed been working away when Ms K died so his father, who he 
described as the Administrator for the estate arranged the funeral and sorted out some 
financial matters. He says this was a difficult time for his father, not only busy with his family 
and a new job having recently retired from the police, but hed also been dealing with 
another estate having lost his own mother. But even if he couldnt or didnt want to obtain 
probate, I find it unlikely hed simply have given up without exploring other alternatives, as 
this would have been a significant amount of money in 1989. 
Im satisfied its most likely Phoenixs search of its systems would have located policy 497 if 
it hadnt been claimed, as it was able to locate the life policy 561 and paid the value plus 
interest to Mr H1. Ive no reason to doubt its explanation that although the policies were 
different types theyd both have been migrated over from the legacy system following the 
takeover of the predecessor business and would remain on Phoenixs system if a value 
remained outstanding. So Ive thought carefully about what might have happened if Mr H2 told Phoenix he didnt 
have probate. Although not a blood relative, I think Mr H2 would have been considered a 
trusted person in relation to Ms K. He was the widower of Ms Ks daughter, and the father of 
her only grandson. He had instigated the policy on Ms Ks behalf when her house was sold, 
and I think its likely hed have notified Phoenix of Ms Ks passing. He was able to arrange 
her funeral and deal with some financial matters in relation to Ms Ks estate as there wasnt 
anyone else to do it. And at the time he was a recently retired police officer, so likely to be 
considered of good character. So I think its reasonable to say Phoenix would have come to 
an arrangement with Mr H2 in order to release the funds. As Phoenix has shown, its not 
unusual for businesses to set thresholds for where probate is essential and where discretion 
can be exercised, or perhaps an indemnity is taken. I cant say why no claim was made 
against the life policy at the time, but it remained an unclaimed policy on Phoenixs systems 
enabling Mr H1 to make a successful claim for the proceeds.  
I take Mr H1s point that the 1989 letter suggests Mr H2 would have needed to complete a 
discharge form and surrender the policy document. But as Phoenix says surrender of the 
document isnt a requirement, so taken together with everything else I dont think the 
presence of both policy documents among Ms Ks papers is enough to say policy 497 hadnt 
been paid out. 
Mr H1 says hes checked statements of Ms Ks accounts and cant see the proceeds were 
received. But I dont find that unusual as they wouldnt have been paid to Ms K after her 
death. Theyd have been payable to her estate, and it seems Mr H2 was dealing with other 
matters in relation to that, even if he doesnt recall exactly what happened now. 
While I cant say for sure what happened, I think its more likely than not policy 497 was paid 
to Ms Ks estate sometime in the past which is why it no longer showed up on Phoenixs 
systems in 2019 when Mr H1 tried to claim it. 
So I dont uphold the complaint and dont require Phoenix to do anything further in relation to 
this policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H1 on behalf of 
the estate of Ms K to accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman