DRN-2897665
The complaint
Mrs H complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) has unfairly charged 
her for excess mileage under a hire purchase agreement. 
What happened
In 2016, Mrs H acquired a new car using a hire purchase agreement from BMWFS. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £40,993.04. Mrs H was required to make 47 monthly 
payments of £509.58 and there was a final optional payment of £16,542.78 if she wished to 
buy the car at the end of the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Mrs H had the right to terminate the agreement at any time 
before the final payment was due. In doing so, BMWFS would be entitled to the return of the 
car and at least half of the total repayable under the agreement. The agreement set out this 
was £20,496.52.
In early 2020, Mrs H chose to exercise her right to terminate the agreement early. After 
Mrs H handed the car back, BMWFS later charged her a further £1,523.80 as she had 
exceeded the mileage allowance on the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Mrs H had an annual mileage allowance of 10,000 and a total 
mileage allowance of 40,000. It said that if she exceeded this allowance BMWFS could 
charge her 7.3 pence for every mile that she exceeded the allowance by. It said that in the 
event she terminated the agreement early, the mileage allowance would be pro-rated for the 
time the car was on hire. 
Mrs H didnt think this charge was fair. She said that the termination section of the 
agreement didnt state that BMWFS could charge anything more than £20,496.52, and as 
she had paid this amount, she didnt think anything further was due. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He was satisfied that BMWFS 
had calculated the excess mileage charge correctly in line with the terms of the hire 
purchase agreement and the CCA. He also found that the terms of the agreement were clear 
around the possibility of an excess mileage charge being payable on voluntary termination.
In summary, he said:
S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase 
agreement early and S100 sets out what liabilities a consumer has on termination. 
In brief, on termination a consumer is liable to pay at least half of the total price of 
the agreement. Total price is defined by S189 CCA as the total sum payable under 
the hire purchase agreement. It does not include charges for items that are payable 
as compensation for breach of an agreement. This means that any charges for 
breaches of the agreement are in addition to any liability for termination.
S99 sets out that any liabilities that the consumer accrued prior to termination are not 
to be affected by the termination. 
The hire purchase agreement set out that the excess mileage charges will accrue 
immediately prior to termination. The term in Mrs Hs agreement was clear that the 
charge accrued before termination and was therefore not affected by the termination. 
The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance is a 
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage charges must therefore be included in 
the total price of the agreement. 
The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted towards the 
total price of the agreement. Mrs Hs accrued liability under S100 therefore included 
paying an additional amount of £5,765.72.
The credit agreement set out clearly the terms surrounding when excess mileage 
would be charged, when it would accrue and how much it would cost. 
The agreement made it clear that this charge would be payable on voluntary 
termination of the agreement if any pro-rated mileage allowance had been exceeded. 
The investigator concluded that when considering all the terms of the agreement as a 
whole, he was satisfied it was made clear and not misleading about when an excess 
mileage charge could be applied and for how much. He was therefore satisfied it was 
fair and reasonable for BMWFS to charge the additional amount. 
Mrs H didnt agree. She said the investigator has cherry picked parts of the agreement which 
favoured BMWFS. She didnt think a fair and balanced approach had been taken. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In paying a deposit and her monthly rentals to BMWFS, the hire purchase agreement 
allowed Mrs H use of the car for the duration of the agreement. She also had the option to 
purchase the car outright at the end of the agreement in exchange for the final payment of 
£16,542.78. While Mrs H was entitled to use the car, that use was subject to certain 
conditions, such as maintaining and taking care of the car and only driving a maximum 
mileage each year and overall throughout the lifetime of the agreement. The agreement set 
out what would happen should Mrs H not meet those requirements.
Mrs H exercised her right to voluntarily terminate the agreement. In some instances, 
voluntary termination allows the hirer to simply hand back the car without having to pay 
anything more. But this is dependant on, amongst other things, how much has been paid to 
the agreement, whether there are arrears to be paid, the condition of the car and whether 
any excess mileage or other charges are due. 
In this case Mrs H accepts that she was required to pay at least £20,496.52 to voluntary 
terminate the agreement. But she disputes the excess mileage charge of £1,523.80 that has 
been added on top of this figure.
The CCA sets out the rights consumers have to voluntary terminate their hire purchase 
agreements and the liability that is due on termination. The Termination: Your rights section 
of Mrs Hs hire purchase agreement also refers to the liability that is due on termination and 
in her case, that was £20,496.52. Various sections of the agreement Mrs H had with 
BMWFS  including the Termination: Your rights section - also referred to the liability on 
early termination, including where excess mileage, damage charges or other charges may 
increase the final liability.As explained by the investigator, S99 sets out that any liabilities which accrue prior to 
termination are not affected by the termination. What this means is that Mrs H is liable to pay 
any charges which have built up prior to the termination of the agreement, and that these 
charges are in addition to the other liability for early termination.
The first page of Mrs Hs hire purchase agreement has a section headed: Excess mileage 
charges. This section sets out the mileage allowance and what charges will apply if that 
mileage is exceeded. It says that if the agreement is terminated early the mileage allowance 
will be pro-rated to the reduced period of hire and that your obligation to pay any excess 
mileage charges will accrue immediately prior to termination. Im satisfied Mrs Hs 
agreement is worded clearly in setting out when excess mileage charges accrue. 
However, Mrs H has referred to the section of the agreement headed Termination: your 
rights. This section contains specific wording which BMWFS were required to include in the 
agreement, and in summary sets out that so long as Mrs H has paid at least half the total 
amount payable under the agreement, she will not have to pay any more. Mrs H argues that 
the wording of this clause is clear and means BMWFS cant charge for excess mileage. She 
says that it contradicts the other terms in the agreement regarding excess mileage and it is 
therefore unfair for BMWFS to rely on it. 
Ive therefore thought about whether this term conflicts with the rest of the terms of the 
agreement, specifically those terms that explain charges for exceeding the mileage might 
apply. In other words, what I have to decide is, has the agreement been constructed in a 
way as to allow the charging for excess mileage without contravening what is set out in the 
CCA regarding voluntary termination and are those terms clear? In Mrs Hs specific case, 
I think it has. Ill explain why. 
 
The Termination: Your rights section contains wording that BMWFS were required to 
include. BMWFS were not entitled to amend that wording. However, that doesnt mean they 
couldnt include additional wording or terms within the agreement that supplemented this 
section. And importantly, they could include wording entitling them to charge additional 
charges which might be allowed under S99 of the CCA. I note that the termination section 
has two paragraphs and Mrs H has referred to the first in isolation. The second paragraph in 
the section I think makes it clear that excess mileage charges could be applied in addition to 
other charges for voluntary termination. 
Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, rather than focussing narrowly on 
one term in isolation, I dont think the agreement is either unclear or misleading concerning 
the charges for excess mileage. I think it explains that the excess mileage charge can be 
applied in addition to other charges for voluntary termination. I dont therefore consider that 
the way this specific agreement has been constructed has prejudiced Mrs H. 
Im also satisfied that any excess mileage charge that would be applicable under this 
agreement will have accrued prior to termination. It follows that Mrs H is liable to pay the 
excess mileage charge and that this is consistent with what is allowed to be charged under 
S99 of the CCA.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Tero HiltunenOmbudsman