DRN-3052232
The complaint
The late Mr W complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the 
claim he made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a 
solar panel system he said was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr Ws estate is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around October 2014, Mr W was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr W decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
On 5 December 2016, the CMC made a claim on Mr Ws behalf under section 75 of the Act 
to Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr W to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system including VAT had been documented as £8,000.00 to 
mislead Mr W  this figure did not include any interest associated with the loan, so 
the true cost was £15,645.60;
Mr W was promised a Tax-Free Year 1 benefit of £842.78 and this didnt take into 
account that after making his loan repayments Mr W had an actual annual deficit of 
£424.77;
the credit agreement would be self-funded by the FIT payments alone; and,
he would make savings on his electricity bills.
The CMC also said Mr W had been pressurised into signing the agreement and purchasing 
the solar panel system, Shawbrook had failed to assess Mr Ws credit worthiness, he had no 
warranty or guarantee despite being told the system would be under warranty for 20 years, 
and that it hadnt been explained that the performance of the system would deteriorate 
slightly year on year.
The CMC also raised concerns under section 140A of the Act. It said there was an unfair 
relationship between Mr W and Shawbrook due to the misleading representations made 
about the systems expected performance.
On making the section 75 claim to Shawbrook, the CMC provided; a copy of a non-
compliance hearing from the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC) dated 
December 2013, copies of marketing material used by P, a job advert for P, the loan 
agreement with Shawbrook, and some of Mr Ws electricity bills.
Shawbrook issued its final response letter on 4 January 2017. Shawbrook said, having 
reviewed the information it held on file, as well as information provided by P, it didnt agree 
the system had been misrepresented to Mr W or that there were any other reasons for the 
claim to be upheld. 
In summary, Shawbrook said:
the fixed sum loan agreement was clear that the cash price of the system was 
£8,000.00 and the total amount payable, due to the associated interest, was 
£15,645.60;
the contract P had provided Mr W set out the expected total returns from the system 
and this, alongside the finance agreement, made it clear that the system was not 
self-funding immediately and that there would be a cost involved; 
the contract with P showed that the expected annual return in year one was 
£1,068.31, whereas the loan agreement repayments were £86.92 a month, or 
£1,043.04 over the year, so there would be a shortfall between the expected benefits 
and the loan repayments;
P said that Mr W had raised no concerns about being pressurised into agreeing to 
the installation of the system and the associated finance, and he hadnt exercised his 
right to cancel the contract within the cancellation period. To support this, it had 
provided a satisfaction questionnaire in which Mr W had rated the salesperson as 5 
out of 5, very satisfied;
the performance of the system and any deterioration are set out in the contract,
as part of his loan application, Shawbrook had completed a full credit check to 
assess Mr Ws credit worthiness and his ability to repay the loan. Mr W had met its 
lending criteria; and,
Shawbrook didnt pay any commission to P for introducing Mr W to it.
Unhappy with this response, the CMC referred the complaint to this service. Sadly, since 
that time Mr W has passed away. His estate has pursued the complaint however. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator thought the benefits of the system were 
misrepresented as the system is underperforming compared to the estimations provided at 
the point of sale. 
 
The investigator recommended the following to put the matter right:
a) The investigator invited Shawbrook to inspect the system as they thought the 
dramatic increase to Mr Ws electricity bills was a clear sign there might be a fault 
with the system; 
b) arrange for any repairs required to get the system working as it should;
c) Shawbrook should refund the higher electricity costs Mr W has had to pay since the 
installation of the system; 
d) the investigator then outlined our usual approach to make the loan cost neutral, and 
provided the four options for how the any overpayments would be used.However, if Shawbrook were unable to fix any fault with the system, the investigator 
recommended the following: 
a) a full unwind of the loan agreement;
b) refund the monthly repayment Mr W made, less any benefit hes received from the 
system; 
c) add 8% simple interest a year to each refunded sum from the date each payment 
was made to the date of settlement;
d) refund the increased electricity costs incurred by the installation of the panels; and,
And regardless of which redress route was taken Shawbrook was to pay Mr W £100.00 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
 
The CMC accepted the investigators view, however Shawbrook didnt respond, or inspect 
the system, so the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations 
 
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. 
 
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. It states: 
 
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have 
a like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly 
and severally liable to the debtor. 
 
As Mr W paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr W could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case. 
 
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr W and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook. 
 
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss. 
 Section 140A of the Act is also relevant. This states:  
(1) The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following: 
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement; 
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights under the 
agreement or any related agreement; 
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either before 
or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement). 
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor and 
matters relating to the debtor). 
 
So, Ive considered whether a court might find that there existed an unfair relationship. 
 
Key documents 
 
There are several documents that have been provided by the CMC and Shawbrook. These 
include the credit agreement and Mr Ws solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P. 
 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant, alongside Mr Ws 
recollection of the sale, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
 
Shawbrook have provided detailed information explaining Ps sale processes. This detailed 
that Ps sales practice was for the quotation to be sent to the consumers shortly after the 
initial meeting via email. Based on our experience of what we have seen with similar 
complaints, Im satisfied that, on the balance of probabilities, P would have sent this 
document to Mr W and I have no reason to doubt thats what happened in this complaint.  
 
The credit agreement, which was also provided by the CMC at the time the original 
complaint was made, sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments. 
 
The CMC has also provided marketing literature used by P along with the findings of the 
Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC) non-compliance panel hearing from 
December 2013.  However, I dont consider these to be the most persuasive pieces of 
evidence in terms of this complaint.
 
Ive noted that the marketing literature the CMC has provided has been supplied on all the 
complaints it has submitted to us about P and isnt dated. Therefore, I cant conclude that 
this was provided to Mr W, or that it relates to the time his panels were sold. Whilst it does 
refer to the system paying for itself and being self-funding, Im not persuaded I can place 
as much weight on this, especially when considered along with Mr Ws personalised quote. 
 The RECC non-compliance panel findings are from December 2013, before Mr W entered 
into the contract with P. Shawbrook has also provided information from Trading Standards, 
setting out that it had been working with P since the findings to improve Ps sales process. 
This work included Trading Standards helping P to enhance their business paperwork and 
documentation to ensure compliance with the relevant legislation. This has ultimately led to 
P receiving Primary Authority Status by the Secretary of State. 
 
So, whilst I accept the RECC findings found concerns with Ps sales practices in 2013, the 
evidence discussed above indicates that Ps sales process, practices and documentation 
had evolved prior to Mr W entering into the contract and I have to take account of the 
particular circumstances of this case, along with the wider, contemporaneous evidence. 
Ill now consider each of the alleged representations made as set out above. 
 
The FIT payments 
 
Mr W has alleged that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by his FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
considered whether this supports what he says he was told as I consider the quote was 
central to the sales presentation. 
 
A page in the quote titled System Analysis Based on Module Efficiency sets out the 
estimated income Mr W could expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. 
This is split out into two tables. The first shows the expected FIT payments in the first year 
and the second shows the expected average income over 20 years. My understanding is 
that the system would only receive FIT payments for 20 years and this is why 20 years has 
been used in the quote. 
The tables read as follows:
 
 
I think that these tables, especially the first one, are clear that Mr W could expect to receive 
a total income in year one of £606.55 from his FIT. 
 
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr W could expect from the system as 
well as any savings he would make from taking out any optional extras including a hot water 
controller. The expected year one electricity savings is £276.95. A table titled Putting it all 
together shows the combined income and savings in year one to be £1,068.31. 
 
There is a page titled System Performance and Returns with a series of tables. The 
repayments section on this page has three tables set out over 60 months, 120 months and 
180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months this is the length of the loan that Mr W 
entered into with Shawbrook. This table sets out that there are 180 monthly payments of 
£86.92 due and compares the overall expected grand total from the system, averaged over a 
monthly basis, versus the expected loan repayments. 
 
This table reads as follows:
 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr W could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to his monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way 
of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to 
cover his monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that he was told 
that his monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone. 
 
Total cost of the system and expected benefits 
 
Mr W has said that the cost of the system was documented as £8,000.00. He has said that 
this was done to mislead him as this figure did not include any interest associated with the 
loan so hid the true cost of the system, £15,645.60. 
 
Im satisfied that the quote provided to Mr W makes it clear that the cost of the system is 
£8,000.00. This is supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the total amount of 
credit is £8,000.00 and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be £15,645.60. 
 
And as the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, 
as set out in the table above, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £8,000.00, it would 
cost Mr W more than this as he had decided to pay for it with a fixed sum loan. 
 
Ill now consider whether P told Mr W that the system would not cost him a penny, and 
that he could expect to receive a Tax-Free Year 1 benefit of £842.78. 
 
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected income from the system versus 
the expected benefit. My view is that this table is in an easily accessible format comparing 
the two. 
Im satisfied that this table shows that in the first year Mr W was expected to have made a 
profit of £2.10 a month and in the second year this would increase to a profit of £6.85 a 
month. I think this clearly shows the system would be generating a profit from day one and 
the system would be paying for itself. 
 
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system would be self-funding from the start, 
and Im able to conclude that Mr W was told that the system would not cost him a penny. I 
think the quote is clear that there wouldnt be a negative difference between his expected 
income and monthly loan repayments. 
 
I cant accept that Mr W was told that hed receive a year one benefit of £842.78 as this 
doesnt relate to any figures shown of the quote. Im not persuaded that Mr W was led to 
believe that hed receive this sum in his hand. 
 
I do accept that Mr W was told by P that the system would pay for itself over the loan term. 
The estimated performance over 20 years page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. 
 
 
This shows that by year 11 the overall benefits that Mr W could expect to receive would have 
exceeded the total amount payable under his loan agreement. This table also sets out the 
panel degradation rate so Im satisfied that P made him aware that performance of the 
system would deteriorate over its lifetime.  
 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr W that the system would pay for itself by 
year 11, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im 
satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently 
suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation. 
 
So, Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with 
the contract between P and Mr W. The quote sets out that the system is expected to 
produce 3,617.95 kWh a year and this in turn would generate the income by way of FIT 
payments and savings in his energy bills, Mr W could expect to receive. 
 
Ive calculated that the system should generate 9.91 kWh of energy each day, on average. 
Mr W has provided his FIT statements which show that for a period of just over 12 months 
between March 2015 and March 2016, the system generated 3,792 kWh which equates 
to 10.28 kWh a day or 3,750.89 kWh a year. This is more than the estimations provided at 
the point of sale. 
 
Im satisfied that the generation and the subsequent FIT payment would have induced Mr W 
into entering the contract. The generation and therefore income are in line, if not more, than 
he was promised. 
Mr W has though also provided his energy statements from 12 months before the installation 
of the system and 12 months after the installation of the system. The statements read as 
follows:
Prior to installation:
Period start date Period end date Cost of electricity
16-Nov-12 13-May-13 £339.80
14-May-13 14-Nov-13 £338.40
 Total £678.20
After installation:
Period start date Period end date Cost of electricity
21-Oct-14 20-Oct-15 £1,987.85
Total £1,987.85
As previously mentioned, Mr Ws quote estimated a year one electricity saving of £276.95. 
However, the statements show the year before the installation of Mr Ws system his 
electricity bills totalled £678.20 and then his electricity bills one year after interstation were 
£1987.85  a total increase of £1309.65.
This is a rather drastic increase to Mr Ws electricity bills and, as I havent been provided any 
evidence to the contrary, I have to assume this is due to an issue with the solar panel 
system P installed.
Shawbrook have not responded to the investigators assessment with any explanation or 
reason as to why the system has caused such a drastic increase to Mr Ws electricity bills. 
I believe that this amounts to a misrepresentation, so I think this case should be upheld. Ill 
go on to explain what I think fair compensation is in relation to this complaint. 
 
I note the CMC has raised some additional points. But, whilst I have considered these, 
having already established there was most likely a misrepresentation at the point of sale, it is 
not necessary to discuss these points in this decision.Putting things right
Our role is to resolve individual disputes between consumers and businesses fairly, 
reasonably, quickly and informally. Determining fair compensation is not always an exact 
science and it is more difficult in a case like this where solar panels have been installed at 
the property. 
As outlined above, the system was predominantly working in line with the estimations set out 
in the quote presented by P, except for the electricity savings Mr W would receive. It is more 
likely that than not that there is a fault with the system that has caused the drastic increase 
to Mr Ws electricity costs. Shawbrook were invited to inspect the system for any faults but 
didnt it respond to the investigators invitation. 
Ive taken all the circumstances of the complaint into consideration and think a full unwind 
the credit agreement, removing the solar panels, giving Mr W a refund of all the payments 
made (less any financial benefit gained from the installation of the solar panels) and a refund 
for the increased electricity cost incurred, is the fairest way to resolve matters. 
Shawbrook should carry this out as follows: 
Shawbrook should calculate a full unwind of Mr Ws loan agreement;
refund all payments made towards the loan agreement, minus any benefits Mr W 
received from the system;
calculate a refund of the increased electricity costs incurred using Mr Ws electricity 
statements from the 12 months before the installation of the system as a baseline 
and paying the difference. Whilst also taking into consideration the assumed rate of 
inflation and assumed rate of the retail price index; and,
add 8% simple interest per year to each of the refunded sums from the date each 
payment was made to the date of settlement.
Shawbrook should also pay the estate of Mr W £100.00 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused to Mr W before he passed away.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint brought by the estate of Mr W.  Shawbrook 
Bank Limited should put things right in the manner set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman