DRN-3215200
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain because U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt paid a claim under 
their travel insurance policy for Mrs Fs disrupted trip. 
What happened
Mrs F is insured under a travel insurance policy held as a benefit of her and Mr Fs bank 
account. The travel insurance policy is provided by UKI.
Mrs F was abroad when her return flight back to the UK was cancelled due to restrictions on 
travel as a result of the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. Mrs F attempted to arrange a 
number of alternative flights, but she was ultimately unable to return to the UK until over two 
months after shed originally intended to.  When Mrs F did return to the UK, she needed to 
quarantine in a hotel. 
Mrs F made a claim under her and Mr Fs policy with UKI for the additional costs she 
incurred in staying abroad, as well as the cost of her hotel quarantine. 
UKI originally said Mrs Fs claim wasnt covered under her policy because shed booked her 
trip at a time when non-essential travel wasnt allowed. Mrs F complained to UKI. She said 
travel restrictions hadnt changed until she was already abroad, and, in any event, she 
believed the reasons for her trip fell within those permitted as exceptional. 
UKI reconsidered the claim and said it shouldnt have declined it for the reasons it had, but 
that the circumstances of Mrs Fs claim werent covered under the policy anyway. This was 
because UKI said a flight being cancelled a few days prior to departure wasnt a valid reason 
for a claim. 
Unhappy, Mrs F brought her complaint to the attention of our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but said he didnt think UKI had 
acted unfairly by declining the claim. Mrs F didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when making my final decision. 
I dont intend to make a finding about whether I think the purposes of Mrs Fs trip were 
essential, or about whether she travelled against Foreign, Commonwealth & Development 
Office or other government advice. This is because I dont think Mrs Fs claim is covered 
under her policy for other reasons, which Ill now go on to explain. 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Fs policy in their entirety. And, I agree 
with our investigator that there is no cover under any section of the policy for the 
circumstances Mrs F found herself in. 
I understand Mrs Fs inbound flight back to the UK was cancelled due to circumstances 
beyond her control, and that she effectively had no choice but to remain abroad. I have 
sympathy for the situation Mrs F found herself in but its not part of my role to tell UKI what I 
think its policies should cover and/or whether or when it should review the level of cover it 
offers. 
An insurer is entitled to decide the level of risk which it is willing to insure under a policy. No 
travel insurance policy provides cover for every scenario and it was up to Mrs F to ensure 
that she had a level of travel insurance cover in place which met her needs. Mrs Fs policy  
in common with many travel insurance policies on the market - doesnt provide cover for a 
situation where a trip is extended beyond the original intended return date (other than in the 
event of certain medical emergencies).
The level of cancellation cover provided for under a standard travel insurance policy 
generally only covers cancellation of the entire trip before the trip starts  not an extended 
stay abroad because return flights have been cancelled. I dont think this is a significant or 
unusual limitation or restriction on cover. Mrs Fs trip wasnt cancelled before she left the UK, 
so her claim isnt covered under Section A Cancelling Your Trip and I dont think UKI 
needed to do anything more to make her aware of the level of cover she held. 
Mrs Fs claim doesnt meet the criteria to be paid under Section B Delayed or Missed 
Departure (on the day you are travelling), and her trip wasnt cut short, so she doesnt have 
a valid claim under Section C Cutting Short Your Trip of the policy either. The remaining 
sections of the policy arent relevant to the circumstances of Mrs Fs claim. 
And, even if I thought that Mrs Fs policy did provide cover for certain costs associated with 
an extended stay abroad, there isnt any travel insurance policy on the market that Im aware 
of (either available now or in the past) that would have covered the cost of UK hotel 
quarantine arising from a change in travel advice. 
This means I dont think Mrs Fs claim is covered under the terms and conditions of her 
policy, and I dont think UKI has acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining her claim. 
UKI assessed Mrs Fs claim in line with policy terms and conditions dated August 2018. 
These were the terms and conditions in force at the time Mrs Fs trip was booked on 1 
January 2021. So, Im satisfied these were the correct documents for UKI to base its 
assessment of the claim on. 
Based on information Ive accessed online, UKI amended certain features of policies like 
Mr and Mrs Fs on 5 January 2021. However, neither these amendments nor any information 
given by UKI to Mrs F over the phone have any bearing on the outcome of Mrs Fs claim. 
She never had any cover under her policy for an extended stay abroad in these 
circumstances. 
It may have been helpful if UKI had provided a clearer explanation to Mrs F about why her 
claim wasnt covered from the outset but overall, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs F, I wont 
be asking UKI to do anything further. If Mrs F wishes to complain about the sale of her policy, shed need to raise this directly with 
the seller in the first instance before this service would have the power to look into the 
matter. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman