DRN-4192176
The complaint
Mr T has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wouldnt accept documentation hed 
provided when trying to open an account. He says the documentation was not accepted 
because it only had the initial of his first name, rather than his first name in full.
Mr T is also unhappy about how HSBC dealt with him when he tried to complain in branch. 
What happened
Mr T went to a branch of HSBC, with the intention of opening a bank account. During the 
meeting Mr T provided identification, but the HSBC representative said the document 
needed to show Mr Ts first name in full and not just an initial and surname. 
Mr T disagreed with this because, as far as he was concerned, the document was valid. 
Because HSBC would not accept the document as valid, Mr T was unable to complete the 
account application process, and so he left the meeting without opening an account.
Mr T later went to the branch as he wanted to make a complaint.
Mr T said he had to wait whilst the staff discussed what to do. Mr T says the members of 
staff asked questions, the answers to which were recorded on paper  but some of these 
questions were repeated without referring to the notes. Mr T also said the members of staff 
explained why they didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong. Mr T says he felt as though 
the members of staff were trying to put him off from making a complaint.
Mr T says he left the branch without completing the complaint as he says the staff member 
snapped at him and says the member of staff was just trying to obtain his data rather than 
log a complaint.
After contacting our service about this matter, HSBC confirmed that when someone applies 
for an account, they need to provide proof of identity and proof of address and the 
documentation provided must contain the applicants first name in full, rather than just an 
initial. HSBC did however apologise for the difficulties Mr T faced when trying to raise a 
complaint and agreed to pay Mr T £100 as a gesture of goodwill because of how matters 
had been handled.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think HSBCs requirement 
that Mr T provide documents with his full name on was unreasonable, and they thought that 
HSBCs offer was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I think that HSBCs offer is reasonable in the circumstances, 
largely for the same reasons that the adjudicator gave. 
I understand the basis of Mr Ts complaint is that HSBC shouldve accepted the 
documentation hed provided because, although it only had an initial for his first name, the 
documentation itself was from an official source and had not been altered. Conversely HSBC 
says that its anti-money laundering checks require the applicants first and second name to 
be stated on the documents in full, and so it could not accept a document that didnt have 
this on.
Weve sent Mr T a copy of a document list from HSBC that outlines the requirements it has 
in place regarding what documentation can be used to prove an account holders identity 
and address. And as the adjudicator explained, it says:
What proof of identity will you need?
The best documents are those that are issued by an official authority, cannot easily 
be forged and include a photograph. Typical items are a current Passport, National 
Identity card or photocard Driving Licence. Separate documents are needed to prove 
your identity and your home address. Where you cannot provide one of the above 
you must always ensure both identification and address verification documents 
incorporate your full first forename in addition to surname.
Having considered everything, overall, I think that HSBCs requirement that Mr T provide 
documentation that includes his first name and surname in full is not unreasonable. I say this 
bearing in mind that HSBC has such rules in place to ensure it can comply with the relevant 
money laundering regulations. As such, whilst I recognise that it wouldve been frustrating for 
Mr T to not be able to proceed with his application for an account at the time, Im unable to 
conclude that HSBC was being unfair or unreasonable by not accepting a document that 
didnt include his first name in full.
In terms of what Mr T has said about when he attempted to complain, from what HSBC has 
said, it seems that the failure of a complaint being registered at the time mayve been 
because the members of staff were not too sure on the process of setting up a complaint for 
Mr T because he was not a customer at the time, and so there was no customer profile on 
HSBCs systems in which to log the complaint against. Indeed, that likely explains why 
HSBC needed to gather so much information about Mr T when he attempted to register a 
complaint with it. But that being said, HSBC has apologised to Mr T for the difficulties that he 
faced and has agreed to pay him £100 compensation as a gesture of goodwill. And having 
considered everything that Mr T has told us, this seems reasonable redress in the 
circumstances.
Putting matters right
To put matters right, HSBC has agreed to pay Mr T £100 as a gesture of goodwill for the 
difficulties he has experienced in this matter.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think that HSBC UK Bank Plc needs to do 
anything more than what it has already agreed to do, to put matters right in this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 Thomas White
Ombudsman