DRN-3906809
The complaint
Mr T complains about the time it took for Phoenix Life Assurance Limited to transfer the 
value of his personal pension to his small self-administered pension scheme (SSAS).
What happened
Mr T initiated a transfer of the funds held in his personal pension in January 2022. Mr T was 
approaching his 55th birthday in February 2022 and wanted to transfer the funds to his SSAS 
so that he could take his tax-free cash entitlement to help pay off his mortgage. 
Due to delays in the process, the transfer of the funds wasnt completed until May 2022. But 
Mr T had already complained at this point, as he felt some of the correspondence relating to 
the transfer was misleading and because of the delays hed experienced.
Phoenix responded to the complaint in March 2022. It accepted it had caused delays and 
offered Mr T £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. It also said it would conduct 
further investigations and calculations once his transfer completed and if its errors had 
caused him to be out of pocket it would put that right. After the transfer completed, Phoenix 
contacted the SSAS trustees to ask for information which would help it to complete the loss 
assessment. However, Phoenix said it didnt receive the information it had asked for so 
wasnt able to complete the calculation.
Mr T referred his complaint to our Service in September 2022, as he was still waiting for 
Phoenix to carry out the loss assessment. Mr T told us he didnt accept the compensation 
offered as he didnt think it was sufficient. He said because of the delay he had to cover the 
shortfall using his savings, which left him feeling exposed. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he thought Phoenix had already made a 
reasonable offer to put things right. While he noted Mr Ts frustration that the loss calculation 
hadnt yet been completed, he thought it was the SSAS trustees that were holding things up. 
However, he clarified with Phoenix how he expected the matter should be put right in terms 
of both the delay in Mr T receiving his tax-free cash and the potential investment loss.
Mr T didnt accept this, saying he earned £300 per hour so the compensation should reflect 
the inconvenience to him. As no agreement could be reached the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Phoenix has already offered to put the matter right in the way Id 
expect it to. So, I wont be asking it to do more. I realise Mr T will be disappointed by this, so 
Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute here that Phoenix caused delays. So, I need to consider what would have 
happened if the delays hadnt occurred and what loss or inconvenience can be attributed to 
those delays.
Phoenix believes that if it hadnt caused the delays it couldve completed the transfer of 
Mr Ts pension funds to his SSAS on 21 March 2022. However, it seems that the transfer of 
the funds didnt complete until 6 May 2022. Having considered the evidence provided, I think 
that it is reasonable to say the transfer should have completed on 21 March 2022. While this 
was around a month after Mr Ts 55th birthday, I dont think Phoenix couldve reasonably 
completed the process any more quickly than this, given the information required from the 
various parties and the anti-fraud checks it was required to do to before releasing the funds. 
Mr T told us that the reason he was accessing his pension was to pay off his remaining 
mortgage balance. So, the Investigator asked Mr T what the impact of this delay was on his 
mortgage redemption. Mr T told the Investigator that hed had to use his savings instead to 
pay off the remaining balance. And while he was able to replenish his savings once the tax-
free cash came through from the SSAS, he said it left him more exposed than what he was 
comfortable with.
Whilst I understand Mr T didnt want to use his savings in this way, he has confirmed he was 
still able to redeem the mortgage and he was able to replenish his savings soon afterwards. 
So, I dont think this caused him an additional loss, such as him having to pay extra interest 
on his mortgage. Nevertheless, when Phoenix carries out the loss assessment, the 
Investigator explained that we would expect it to pay interest at a gross rate of 8% simple on 
the tax-free cash payment Mr T received after transferring. This should be paid from the date 
it ought to have been paid to Mr T to the date it was actually paid. In addition to this, Phoenix 
will also be looking at whether Mr T suffered any loss on the remaining transferred funds as 
a result of the delay  assuming the transfer completed on 21 March 2022 and the remaining 
funds were invested in the same way. And I think this fairly compensates Mr T for the actual 
delay in the transfer completing and him receiving his tax-free cash.
Mr T is understandably unhappy that Phoenix hasnt yet completed this calculation. But 
when he referred his complaint to our Service, the information needed to complete the 
calculation was still outstanding. Phoenix asked for this on 17 May 2022, and while it 
received a reply, it didnt get the information it asked for. So, it requested this again in 
June 2022 but it didnt receive a response.
Since the matter was referred to me, Mr T asked the Investigator what information was 
needed for Phoenix to complete the calculation and offered (and has since provided) that 
information himself. He feels that Phoenix couldve always obtained the information it 
needed from him and has asked that I take this into account in my decision.
I appreciate Mr Ts ongoing frustration, but I dont think Phoenix is at fault for the loss 
calculation not yet being completed. I think it was reasonable for Phoenix to have directed its 
information request to the SSAS trustees rather than Mr T in the first instance. And at the 
time the complaint was referred to our Service, the SSAS hadnt provided the information it 
asked for, despite Phoenix reiterating the request. That said, Im aware the Investigator has 
now passed on the information Mr T sent us to Phoenix and it seems to me this will enable 
Phoenix to complete the calculation.
Phoenix also offered Mr T £200 for the delays and the misleading correspondence he 
received in the initial stages of the transfer request. Mr T doesnt think that was sufficient for 
the impact on him, particularly in view of what he earns and the time taken to follow things 
up, but Im satisfied this sum is fair in the circumstances. I dont doubt the matter was 
frustrating and caused Mr T a degree of inconvenience. But I think the impact of this was lessened bearing in mind that Mr T was still able to meet his objective of paying off his 
mortgage, despite the delay. And its evident that Mr T will be compensated for the financial 
impact of the delay.
Overall, I think Phoenix has already made a fair offer to put things right for Mr T, so Im not 
making any other award.
My final decision
Phoenix Life Assurance Limited has already made an offer to pay Mr T £200 and to carry out 
a loss calculation, as set out above, to settle the complaint.
I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited should pay Mr T £200 and it should 
carry out the loss calculation to settle the matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman