DRN-4023148
The complaint
Ms H complains that a car acquired with finance from Black Horse Finance trading as Black 
Horse wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In October 2021 Ms H was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with Black Horse. At the point of supply the car was around 8 years old and had covered 
around 47,771 miles.
In April 2022 Ms H had two front tyres replaced at a tyre centre. Within a short time of the 
tyres being replaced, Ms H experienced juddering, so she returned to the tyre centre who 
advised her that the front bushes needed replacing.
When she collected the car Ms H experienced a grinding noise. She took the car back to the 
supplying dealer who advised her that there was a fault with the differential box and that 
replacing the oil in the differential box might resolve the issue. These repairs were carried 
out at a cost of £307.98.
The grinding noise continued so Ms H returned to the dealer, who advised that the 
differential box would need to be replaced at a cost of £3000.
Ms H complained to Black Horse about the quality of the car. Black Horse didnt uphold the 
complaint. It said there wasnt ant evidence to show that the fault was present or developing 
at the point of supply.
Ms H remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that although there were faults with 
the car, there wasnt any evidence to suggest that there was a juddering issue prior to the 
tyre change in April 2022, so it was more likely that this was caused as a result of changing 
the tyres. In relation to the grinding noise, the investigator said there wasnt any evidence to 
show that this fault was present or developing at the point of supply.
Ms H didnt agree. She said it wasnt reasonable to expect to pay for costly repairs within 
such as short time of purchasing the car. Ms H said she would obtain an independent report 
about the quality of the car and provide a copy to this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H told this service that she had obtained an independent report. I can see that the 
investigator asked Ms H to provide a copy of this but she hasnt done so. Over a month has 
passed since the investigator made this request and the report hasnt been provided, so Ive 
reached my final decision based on the available information.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of 
goods includes their general condition and other things including fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
I would expect a second hand car to have a degree of wear and tear and to require more 
repairs and maintenance than, say, a brand new car. So, in order to uphold this complaint, I 
would need to be satisfied that there was a fault with the car which was present or 
developing at the point of supply as opposed to a fault which occurred due to general wear 
and tear.
Under the relevant legislation, where a car has a fault which makes it of unsatisfactory 
quality in the first 6 months, its assumed that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply. After 6 months, the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show 
that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Ive reviewed all the available evidence. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that theres a 
fault with the car. I say this because the invoices from the supplying dealership show that 
there is a noise from the differential box which wasnt remedied by a gearbox oil change.
Ive gone on to consider whether the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. Ill 
deal with each of the issues separately.
Tyres
The MOT dated 8 October 2021 lists both of the front tyres as advisories. This means that, 
although the tyres needed to be changed, they were within the legal limit at the point of 
supply. Tyres are a wear and tear item. The fact that the tyres needed to be changed soon 
after the point of supply doesnt make the car of unsatisfactory quality.
I can see that in its final response, the dealership said it would refund the cost of the tyres if 
Ms H provided an invoice. This doesnt amount to an admission that the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality. Its a gesture of goodwill. If Ms H provides the relevant invoice Id 
expect Black Horse to refund the costs of the two front tyres.
Suspension
The juddering issue didnt occur until after the tyres had ben replaced. The tyres were 
replaced in April 2022. The issue was identified as the bushes needing replacing. Bushes 
are a wear and tear item on a car, so the fact that these needed replacing within the first 6 
months of the point of supply doesnt make the car of unsatisfactory quality.
Differential box
The grinding noise didnt occur until after the tyres and bushes had been replaced. I can see 
that the car was booked into the supplying dealer in June 2022 and that a gearbox oil 
change was carried out but this didnt resolve the issue.
Because the issue with the differential box occurred more than 6 months after the point of 
supply, its up to Ms H to show that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply. 
Theres no evidence to support this. If there had been an issue with the differential box at the 
point of supply, I wouldve expected the fault to present itself much sooner than it did 
because the differential box is such an integral component part of the car. I dont think it wouldve been possible for Ms H to drive the car for around 8 months/4000 miles if there had 
been an inherent fault with the differential box.
I understand that the dealership has said that the fault with the differential box could have 
been caused by towing. Theres no evidence to support this. And based on what Ive seen, I 
dont think the dealerships comments here are relevant. The issue to determine is not what 
caused the fault but whether the fault was present or developing at the point of supply. 
I appreciate that Ms H is unhappy at the prospect of having to pay for repairs. But having 
considered everything, theres no evidence to persuade me that the fault with the differential 
box was present or developing at the point of supply. So, Im unable to say that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. I wont be asking Black Horse to do anything 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman