DRN-2159425
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service he received in a branch of Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax.
What happened
Mr M went into a branch to pay in some money. He objected to being asked, while queueing, 
whether he was paying in coins, and then being asked at the counter, whether the coins 
were correctly bagged. He doesnt think that Halifax should have limits on the coin he can 
pay in. 
Mr M also said that he asked to see a manager, but was told she was busy. He said that her 
duty was to go and see him when he wanted to see her. He said that the person who 
approached him the queue was someone hed complained about before, and he doesnt 
want her to come near him again. He has been very unhappy with the service he received.
Halifax said that it had limits on the coin that can be paid in. Its limited to ten bags per day, 
and the coins have to be bagged correctly. It showed us an earlier letter it had sent to Mr M, 
highlighting this limit. It says that its standard practice is for staff to approach customers 
before they reach the counter, to ask about any coin and check its been bagged properly. 
And Halifax understood that Mr M hadnt wanted to speak to the manager after all, because 
his transaction was successful.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He noted the limits on coins 
that can be paid in, and that this had previously been drawn to Mr Ms attention. And he 
didnt think Mr M had wanted to speak to the manager after all. So our investigator didnt 
think Halifax had to do any more. 
Mr M didnt agree. He was adamant that he had wanted to speak to the manager, but she 
was using the printer or photocopier, and had refused to talk to him. Hed been told that she 
would see him when she was free, but he didnt believe that. And he said if the coins hadnt 
been accepted, he wouldnt want to talk to anyone, he would just have left then complained 
to head office. Mr M said Halifax didnt have to ask him about coins, it could just check the 
bags itself. Mr M said we were just accepting what Halifax said, and not listening to him.
Our investigator said that what Halifax said and what Mr M said were very similar. And even 
if hed only considered Mr Ms version of events, then he wouldve been likely to reach the 
same outcome. 
Because there was no agreement, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr M doesnt think Halifax should have any limits on accepting coin, and it shouldnt ask him 
if he has complied with the limits, or correctly bagged the coin. But I think its reasonable for 
Halifax to put limits on the coin it accepts, and to check that the coin has been separated 
and bagged. It can take a long time to process coin, especially if someone has to sort a large 
pile of loose change. I think its likely that Halifaxs customers overall benefit if Halifax 
doesnt let its customers take up the cashiers time with this. 
I know that Mr M wasnt proposing to deposit a large pile of change. But I dont think its 
unfair or unreasonable for Halifaxs staff to ask him, or other customers, about this while they 
are waiting to be served. And I note that Halifax has previously drawn its cash deposit limits 
to Mr Ms attention. 
Mr M also said that he thought the manager wouldnt see him. But hes also said that she 
was busy. I dont agree with Mr M that the managers duty is to come to him when he wanted 
to see her. Its not unreasonable for her to finish whatever shes working on, or resolve 
issues for whichever customer shes already helping, first. Mr M says he was told shed see 
him after this, but he didnt believe this. 
There does appear to have been some misunderstanding, because the manager thought 
Mr M didnt want to see him if he could deposit his coins. But Mr M hasnt suggested he 
asked again to see the manager, or questioned when she would be free. So it seems likely 
that Mr M simply left before the manager was free.
I know that Mr M is extremely unhappy with the customer service hes received. But I dont 
think that Halifax has been unfair or unreasonable. So, although I know that Mr M will be 
disappointed, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman