DRN-2916957
The complaint
Ms B complains about the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
have asked her to pay to refurbish damage to a car she was hiring through a finance 
agreement with them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ms B acquired her car under a type of hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Ms B responsible for keeping the car in 
good condition. She would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned 
in the correct condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
The BVRLA guidance says that scuffs of up to 50mm on the total circumference of 
the wheel rim or alloy wheel is acceptable and that there should be no damage to 
the wheel hub. Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are provided in 
the inspection report completed at handover and I would agree with the investigator 
that each of the three wheels has damage in excess of 50mm and that the damage is 
beyond what would be considered fair wear and tear.
The BVRLA guidance makes no distinction about the type or class of car or the size 
of the wheel. I therefore think MBFS have applied the guidance correctly.
Whilst many businesses may be prepared to withhold collection activities whilst we 
investigate complaints, we cant insist they do that. So, it would not be fair to suggest 
MBFS were wrong to make efforts to collect the debt.
The terms of the finance agreement Ms B entered into with MBFS dont require the 
business to make deductions if the car is returned with lower mileage than is 
expected. So, whilst I realise Ms B returned the car with a lower mileage, I dont think 
MBFS were unreasonable when not taking account of it.
So, Im not asking MBFS to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman