DRN-1976612
The complaint
Mr D complains that CIS General Insurance Limited trading as Co-op Insurance wont 
increase the sum insured under his all risks personal possessions insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr D requested an increase to the sum insured, but CIS declined it. He says without this 
increase, the policy doesnt suit his lifestyle and as he cant move his insurance to another 
provider whilst a subsidence claim is ongoing, he feels CIS should accommodate him. Hes 
also mentioned that a claim form he requested wasnt sent to him.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said CIS underwriting criteria didnt allow 
further increases to the sum as it was already higher than the underwriting limit. And as this 
was a risk it wouldnt be prepared to take on for any customer, she didnt think it was fair to 
ask CIS to do so for Mr D. She pointed out that the issue with the claim form wasnt one 
Mr D had raised as a complaint to CIS.
Mr D wasnt happy with the outcome, he accepts theres an element of commercial 
discretion, but thinks CIS directors have a duty to resolve things. And he said he shouldnt 
have to make a complaint to make CIS do its job properly in sending him a claim form. The 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CIS underwriters confirmed to us that the sum insured amount its prepared to accept forms 
part of its internal underwriting criteria. Because of the situation Mr D is in regarding his 
subsidence claim, CIS has told us its already increased cover to a level that exceeds its 
underwriting limit. Following discussions with its underwriters, CIS said this is the maximum 
sum insured its prepared to offer on this policy, so it wont be increasing this further. And CIS 
has said that Mr D has the option of removing items from cover and adding something else 
on, to ensure that hes covered for the most important items. Otherwise he could get cover 
for his possessions from another provider.
Insurers have their own underwriting criteria which sets out what risks its prepared to accept 
and on what terms. These will vary from insurer to insurer. These are commercial decisions, 
but we do expect insurers to apply its criteria to customers fairly.
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied CIS has treated Mr D fairly. This is because it has 
increased Mr Ds level of cover over its underwriting criteria to accommodate the situation he 
is in with regards to his subsidence claim. Im not satisfied it would be fair to direct CIS to 
exceed those limits even further. Its given Mr D a fair suggestion of removing and replacing 
items.
Although Mr D believes CIS directors should exercise their corporate responsibility to him to 
put things right, thats not something Im persuaded of. The complaint issue is CIS refusal to 
further increase the sum insured. This is delegated to CIS underwriters and as Ive said, CIS 
has gone beyond the limits of its underwriting criteria and Im satisfied Mr D has been treated 
fairly.
And while I do appreciate the situation Mr D is in regarding his buildings insurance due to 
the subsidence claim, he has an option to move his contents and personal possessions 
insurance to another provider even if it may cost more than CIS charges.
The claim form issue wasnt a complaint that was raised with CIS. Its apparent that Mr D 
said in his complaint form to us that CIS hadnt sent him a claim form, but this appears to be 
the first expression of dissatisfaction Mr D communicated. And its when this expression is 
made to CIS that it can deal with the matter as a complaint under the relevant Dispute 
Resolution rules. I expect that now CIS is aware of this complaint issue it will correspond 
with Mr D about this to try and resolve his concern.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman