DRN-3739149
The complaint
Miss I is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded money she lost to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its accepted this investment opportunity was a scam. I also agree that the final payment 
Miss I made to the genuine cryptocurrency exchange should have triggered an 
intervention by Lloyds. It was a large payment, which considering her general account 
usage, was out of character for her. 
The notes from when Miss I reported this scam set out how she admitted she knew little 
about it and she was reliant on a close family member with this investment. And were 
aware that the same family member was the one who lent Miss I the funds to invest. 
With this is mind, it is however then difficult to see how the intervention call couldve 
unravelled this was a scam.
Lloyds questioning Miss I wouldnt reveal much about the scam, as she didnt have this 
information. And if it suggested, before she process any further payments, she did get 
information and do research, I think its unlikely this wouldve stopped her investing 
further in the scam.
I say this because Im not confident Miss I wouldve felt it necessary to do her own 
research, due to her family members existing relationship with this investment scam; and 
their confidence. They involved multiple family members and lent money to a number of 
these due to their trust in the investment opportunity. I think its possible she wouldve 
discussed the banks warning with this person, but having done this, then still gone 
ahead. And the scam firm they were using had a very similar name to a genuine firm, so 
research also couldve revealed this genuine firm rather than the scam.
As I dont think an intervention call wouldve prevented Miss I investing in this scam, I 
dont consider Lloyds does need to refund the large payment she sent. I think its most 
likely Miss I wouldve sent this even with an intervention call. 
As Miss I paid a genuine cryptocurrency exchange, I dont think Lloyds was wrong not to 
pursue chargeback claims for her payments. Shes not disputed receiving the 
cryptocurrency she paid for, her loss happened after this when she moved this to the 
scam firm. So there are also no recovery options with Lloyds for her funds.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Is complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman