DRN-2405224
The complaint
Mr M says Home Retail Group Card Services Limited, trading as Argos, were wrong to 
report a default to his credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Argos have a responsibility to report consumers credit performance accurately. Im 
persuaded here that they have.
did Mr M default on his account?
Mr Ms account was in arrears from 17 November 2019. He didnt make a minimum payment 
for three months and as a result a notice of default was sent to him on 21 February 2020 and 
as no payment was made the account was defaulted in March 2020 and subsequently 
terminated.
Most credit providers wont record an account as being in default just because one payment 
has been missed. The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says when a consumer is at 
least three months behind with their payments then a default may be registered.  Here, Mr M 
was three months behind, and I therefore think Argos were fair when recording a default to 
the credit reference agencies.
did Argos provide adequate warning to Mr M of the consequences of not paying?
When Mr M called Argos in January 2020 the agent explained that he would need to make 
manual payments until his direct debit was established. It was during this call that I think 
Argos were first told of Mr Ms new address. So, whilst I understand Mr Ms concerns that he 
hadnt received any of Argoss letters, since he moved to a new house, in November 2019, I 
dont think it would be fair to hold Argos accountable for that. It was for Mr M to tell them hed 
moved. And, regardless, I can see that Argos were sending account statements by email 
and those statements would have reasonably alerted Mr M to the fact there was a problem 
with his account.
Argos issued a notice of default in February 2020. They sent that notice to the new address 
Mr M had given them during the call he had with them the previous month. Thats the same 
address that we have on file for Mr M. Ive seen a copy of that letter.
Whilst I understand Mr M disputes ever receiving the letter or other letters advising him of 
arrears, I dont think it would be fair to hold Argos accountable for that. The evidence 
suggests they were sent and to the correct addresses. 
I can see that Argos also emailed Mr M his statements. Those statements clearly explained 
the missed payments, the account balance, the arrears on the account and the implications 
of not paying. I understand Mr M disputes receiving these statements. Argos have explained 
that if that were the case the emails would have bounced back to them. They have no record 
of any emails bouncing back so Im persuaded that Mr M should have received them.
Whilst I understand Mr Ms distress Im afraid I havent seen evidence that Argos have done 
anything wrong here. They have a duty to report Mr Ms credit performance accurately and 
Im persuaded that is what they have done.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman