DRN-4035216
The complaint
Mr S complains that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) wont reimburse his 
travel costs and loss of earnings following a claim made on his caravan insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr S made a claim for repairs to his caravan. AIG asked him to provide a quote for the 
repairs, which he did. It then asked him to provide a second quote from another repairer, 
which Mr S did. AIG then authorised the cheaper quote. But Mr S was unhappy that AIG 
wouldnt pay for his travel costs 200 miles to and from the repairers or for his consequent 
loss of earnings. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mr S 
had chosen the two repairers and AIG wasnt responsible for his choices. She thought Mr S 
hadnt arranged for AIG to cover his travel and other costs. And she thought these werent 
covered by the policys terms and conditions. So she didnt think AIG had done anything 
wrong in declining to pay them.
Mr S replied that he had had the trouble and inconvenience or dealing with the claim and the 
repairs. Mr S asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, so its come to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr S feels frustrated that hes out of pocket because he had to deliver 
his caravan to and collect it from the chosen repairers, a distance of 200 miles from his 
home. And he said he also had to make two journeys when he couldnt collect the caravan 
because the repairs hadnt been completed. Mr S said he also lost earnings because of the 
travel time. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
AIG asked Mr S to obtain two quotes for repairs to his caravan. Because of the caravans 
specification, Mr S said only two manufacturers approved repairers were available. One 
repairer was nearer Mr Ss home, but the second repairer provided a substantially cheaper 
quote for repairs. And so AIG chose the more distant repairer in order to minimise the claim 
costs. Im satisfied that this was fair and reasonable as this was the limit of AIGs liability for 
the claim. 
Ive looked through Mr Ss policy documents and I cant see that travel costs and loss of 
earnings are covered. Ive looked at the claim notes and I cant see that Mr S brought the 
potential costs to AIGs attention when he submitted his quotes. If he had, then I think AIG 
could have managed his expectations and told him that these wouldnt have been covered 
by the policy. Or it may have made other arrangements for the repairs. 
Mr S said hed had to make two return journeys to the repairer when the caravan hadnt 
been fully repaired. But I havent seen why he did this without establishing the extent of the 
repairs carried out or that they had been completed. If Mr S had been told that the caravan 
was ready for collection, but it wasnt, then this may be something he could discuss with the 
repairing garage. 
So, in summary, I cant say that AIG has done anything wrong in declining to pay for Mr Ss 
travel and other costs as these arent covered by his policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman