DRN-1192864
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a 
personal loan in 2001. Mr J says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Js case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, HSBC had to make it clear to Mr J that he had a choice about it. But 
Mr J says the PPI was added without his knowledge or consent.
HSBC has sent us an example of what its loan agreements looked like around the time Mr J 
took out his loan. And this included a section on PPI setting out the cost and amount of 
interest charged on it, as well as a statement saying that the customer had decided to take 
out the PPI.
While there isnt much other evidence available about the sale, based on the evidence I 
have I think its likely that HSBC did make it clear to Mr J that he had a choice about the PPI. 
And that Mr J chose to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
Mr J says HSBC recommended the PPI to him. So it had to check that it was right for him. 
And, based on what Ive seen of Mr Js circumstances at the time, I think that the PPI was 
right for him. For example, he doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover. The policy would likely have paid out for longer than he 
wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. And Mr J has told us he didnt have any savings or 
other means he couldve used to make his repayments if he wasnt earning.
Mr J has said that he was self-employed at the time of the sale. But during our investigation 
he also told us he was employed. The PPI policy did cover self-employed people, and the 
terms of the policy didnt make it significantly more difficult for a self-employed person to 
claim, than for an employed person. So I still think the policy was right for Mr J, even if he 
was self-employed.
As well as checking it was right for him, HSBC had to give Mr J clear information about the 
PPI. Its possible the information it gave him wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But, for the 
same reasons I think it was right for him, it seems like the PPI would have been useful for 
Mr J if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put Mr J off taking it out.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2020.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman