DRN-4521403
The complaint
Mrs and Mr P complain that AWP P&C SA declined their travel insurance claim and about its 
service. My references to AWP include its agents.
What happened
Mrs and Mr P have travel insurance through their bank. The insurer is AWP.
Mrs and Mr P went on holiday abroad with their adult daughter and son, their partners and 
young children. Very sadly while they were on holiday their daughter passed away suddenly. 
Mrs and Mr P remained abroad to arrange the repatriation of their daughter and support her 
husband and children. They say that on 24 February 2022, the day after their daughter 
passed away, they called AWP before they made the arrangements to stay longer and AWP 
said their costs for the extension of their trip would be covered. When Mrs and Mr P returned 
home they made their claim, as AWP had told them to.
AWP declined the claim. It said the circumstances of Mrs and Mr P claim werent covered by 
their policy terms.
Mrs and Mr P complained to us. In summary they said:
They sent the claim to AWP in April 2022 but it said it didnt receive the claim so they 
resent the claim in July 2022. After several calls chasing a response AWP wrote to 
them in December 2022 rejecting the claim and saying its travel department would 
send the final response in writing which theyd never received. Mrs and Mr P 
continued to chase AWP for the decision to be re-reviewed by management, as it 
said it would, but then one of AWPs representatives told them to complain to us as 
the claim hadnt been looked at any further.
AWP told them it would pay their costs to stay and repatriate their daughter. They 
stayed for an extra two and half weeks and the claim is for their extra hotel costs, 
medication for Mr P and the cost of hiring a mobility scooter for Mr P, which totalled 
£2,600.
Their son and his partner have an identical insurance policy with AWP and AWP paid 
that claim once it listened to phone recordings which confirmed it had told them it 
would pay their expenses.
They want AWP to pay their claim. They also want compensation as AWPs actions 
have caused them a lot of additional unnecessary stress and upset at a dreadful 
time, and they also had to pay for all the calls they made to chase AWP.
During our investigation our investigator contacted AWP to get clarification as to why it 
declined Mrs and Mr Ps claim. AWP said the policy terms under the medical expenses 
section only provided cover for costs resulting from the insured persons death, not for costs 
resulting from the death of a person who isnt insured by the policy. AWP said it couldnt find 
a call from Mrs and Mr P on 24 February 2022. It could only find a call of 25 February when 
it told Mrs and Mr P their grandson wasnt covered on their policy.
Mrs and Mr P sent us a log of their calls which showed they phoned AWP on 24 and 
25 February 2022. They also sent us an email from AWP of 24 February 2022 which they 
said showed AWP had told them it would pay their costs for the extended stay. Mrs and Mr P 
also told our investigator that even if AWP had told them it wouldnt pay they would have 
sold their car to cover the costs to stay to repatriate their daughter.
Our investigator said AWP had fairly declined the claim, which wasnt covered by the policy 
terms. But he recommended AWP pay £750 compensation for Mrs and Mr Ps loss of 
expectation and distress and inconvenience.
AWP accepted the recommendation. Mrs and Mr P didnt accept and wanted an 
ombudsmans decision. They said £750 wasnt enough. Theyd been told by AWP that their 
costs would be covered, and it not paying has caused extreme pressure on their finances 
on top of all their grief at losing their daughter and trying to help bring up her children.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to say AWP reasonably declined Mrs and 
Mr Ps claim but it should pay them more compensation, for their distress and inconvenience 
it caused and their loss of expectation, than our investigator had recommended. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
I send my condolences to Mrs and Mr P for the loss of their daughter. Its been a terrible time 
for them and its clear that the situation with AWP has caused them substantial additional 
upset and inconvenience.
But having considered the policy terms I think AWP correctly declined the claim.
Travel insurance policies dont cover every situation a consumer finds themselves in. The 
policy terms and conditions set out what risks an insurer is prepared to cover. Ive looked 
carefully at the policy terms and there is no cover for Mrs and Mr Ps costs to extend their 
trip in their very sad situation.
Mrs and Mr P sent us a page of the cancellation and curtailment section of the policy and 
theyd marked the details about the death of a relative or the person they were travelling 
with. But those policy terms only apply for costs, detailed in the policy, when a holiday is 
cancelled or they have to return home early. That wasnt Mrs and Mr Ps situation. The 
emergency medical and associated expenses section only provides cover for additional 
costs resulting from the death, injury, or illness of Mrs or Mr P. There is no cover for costs 
incurred to stay abroad as a result of the death of a person who wasnt insured under their 
policy.
As Mrs and Mr Ps claim is for additional costs due to their extended stay because of their 
daughters death, who isnt covered under this policy, AWP reasonably said the claim wasnt 
covered under the policy terms.
However, I think that on 24 February 2022 AWP did tell Mrs and Mr P that costs for the 
extended stay would be covered. AWP cant find a call for that date but Ive seen the email it 
sent to Mrs and Mr P on 24 February, which says its a summary of their call, and from the 
emails wording I think Mrs and Mr P reasonably understood AWP would pay costs for their 
accomodation extension and any flight extension. As the policy doesnt cover those costs in 
Mrs and Mr Ps situation AWP gave them the wrong information.
Our investigator correctly explained that when an insurer gives wrong information, as AWP 
did here, we wouldnt automatically tell AWP to pay the costs just because it told Mrs and 
Mr P it would do. We look at the effect the wrong information had on Mrs and Mr P. Our investigator said that as Mrs and Mr P told him they would have stayed to make 
arrangements for their daughter even if AWP had said the costs werent covered he couldnt 
say they had extra costs because of AWPs wrong information. So he considered Mrs and 
Mr Ps loss of expectation, distress and inconvenience and recommended AWP pay £750 
compensation for those matters.
Taking into account all the circumstances I dont think £750 compensation is enough. 
Mrs and Mr P called AWP the day after their daughters sudden death to ask for advice 
about it covering their costs to stay abroad to arrange the very distressing and difficult task 
of repatriating their daughter to the UK. I think AWP should have reasonably been much 
more careful in the information it gave them about cover at such distressing and vulnerable 
time for them. Mrs and Mr P could reasonably expect that AWP had correctly told them their 
costs were covered.
AWP took eight months to confirm that it wasnt covering the claim but still gave Mrs and 
Mr P no proper explanation as to why. I can see from the email exchanges Mrs and Mr P 
had with AWP that after its December 2022 decline letter it told them it would re-review its 
claim decision but despite Mrs and Mr P chasing AWP never substantively responded. 
I think AWPs wrong information and unreasonable actions have caused sustained 
substantial distress to Mrs and Mr P. They relied on the information they were given by AWP 
and made arrangements accordingly. So I can understand how upset, worried and frustrated 
they would have been to be told that they werent covered especially when they had 
proactively sought that reassurance from AWP. This was at an already difficult time, when 
theyve been grieving and dealing with the unexpected loss of their daughter and trying to 
support her grieving husband and young family. On top of this, as a result of AWPs mistake, 
theyve also had financial worries as they havent been able to recover the additional cost of 
the accommodation they paid for.
Ive also taken into account the sustained impact of AWPs claims handling. Mr and Mrs P 
have had the worry of being out of pocket for a significant amount of money for around 
18 months. AWP didnt engage with Mr and Mrs Ps request to review the claim and the 
concerns they raised about AWPs decision to pay their sons claim which, they say, was 
made in almost identical circumstances. I think thats very disappointing given the 
circumstances of this case. I think this has caused Mr and Mrs P a lot of avoidable additional 
distress and inconvenience over a very long period of time.
In all the circumstances I think it would be fair and reasonable for AWP to pay £2,000 
compensation to acknowledge Mrs and Mr Ps substantial distress and inconvenience its 
caused over about 18 months as well as their loss of expectation.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs and Mr P accepted my provisional decision. AWP didnt respond by the date we gave it 
to respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs and Mr P have accepted my provisional decision and AWP didnt respond Ive no 
reason to change my mind. For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these 
findings Im satisfied that AWP reasonably declined Mrs and Mr Ps claim but AWP must pay them compensation as Ive set out below.
Putting things right
AWP must pay Mrs and Mr P £2,000 compensation to acknowledge their distress and 
inconvenience its caused as well as their loss of expectation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require AWP P&C SA to pay Mrs and Mr P £2,000 compensation 
to acknowledge their distress and inconvenience its caused as well as their loss of 
expectation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman