DRN-4102557
Complaint
Mr N is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt reimbursed him after he reported falling 
victim to a rogue trader scam.
Background
Mr N wanted to complete a substantial extension to his home. Prior to the works 
commencing, the estimated costs were around £130,000. Once he was given planning 
permission, a building inspector was appointed. On the recommendation of the building 
inspector, Mr N engaged the services of a building company.
The company agreed to carry out all the stages of the works and to a demanding schedule. 
As I understand it, the director of the company visited Mr Ns home on 26 September 2020. 
He said hed bring a copy of the contract and wanted to be paid a deposit of £13,000 in 
cash. The director didnt bring a written contract with him but reassured Mr N that he would 
bring it the next time they met. Up until December 2020, Mr N made cash payments of 
£83,000 to the builder. He says that the builder threatened that he would abandon the 
project if Mr N didnt make further cash payments.
By late December, Mr N was unhappy that so little progress had been made. He told the 
builder that he refused to make any more cash payments but agreed to make several 
payments by bank transfer. In January and February 2021, Mr N paid £15,000 to the builder 
by bank transfer. Both the cash withdrawals and the bank transfers were paid from Mr Ns 
account with HSBC.
Mr N says that the builder left the house in a terrible condition. Wiring was incomplete and 
exposed and the house was open to the elements. He had a brief interaction with the 
builders partner about him returning to the site and finishing the job. This never happened. 
In May 2021, he contacted HSBC and told it hed fallen victim to a scam. He also reported 
what had happened to the Trading Standards team at the local authority and the police. 
HSBC looked into things but decided Mr N wasnt the victim of fraud. In its view, this was a 
civil dispute and he ought to recover his losses through the courts.
In July 2021, a building surveyor inspected the property and reported on the works that had 
been undertaken. He wrote: 
The stage payments paid roughly correlate with the various stages set down in
the quotation provided by [the builder]. Payments totalling £98,000 were
released which correlate with achieving Stage 14 of the works. The cost of works to 
complete after Stage 14 only amounts to £19,000 plus the retentions sums of 
£13,000.
However, it is clear that defective works aside, not all elements of every previous 
stage are complete. Even if the works in the various stages were fully complete
the extent of work does not extend much beyond stage 7 which is a total of £63,000. 
Not forgetting that it includes a deposit amount of £13,000 which is not really 
allocated to any works.
[]
From the site inspection and the additional information provided it is clear that money
was claimed by [the builder] and not expended on the works.
It is apparent that given the extent of unfinished and outstanding works and the 
progress made on site by [the builder] that demands for further monies to complete 
the works within the stated time frames was never achievable.
There are numerous instances of poor and defective work and works not in
accordance with the agreed schedule and specifications.
Mr N was unhappy with the response hed received from HSBC and so he referred his 
complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. She agreed 
with HSBCs conclusion that this should be treated as a civil dispute.
Mr N disagreed with the Investigators opinion. He said that the contents of the surveyors 
reports supported his contention that he was a victim of fraud. He argued that the builder 
started work on the property before a contract had been agreed and so essentially forced 
Mr N to engage with him. He also pointed out that he wasnt on the site during this time, so 
although theres evidence he sent messages saying that he was happy with the work, this 
was always based on the commentary and the pictures supplied by the builder.
As Mr N disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here that Mr N authorised the payments to the company. Under the 
relevant legislation that means hes liable for those payments at first instance. However, 
good industry practice also required HSBC to be on the lookout for payments that were 
unusual or out of character with the aim of preventing customers from falling victim to fraud 
and scams. Its also a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. In certain circumstances, that code can entitle a 
customer to be reimbursed by the bank after theyve fallen victim to a scam.
However, before I consider whether any of those requirements come into play, I must first 
consider whether Mr N is a victim of fraud. The CRM Code is explicit that it doesnt apply to 
private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services  but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the Customer is 
otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
This isnt a straightforward question to address. To be satisfied that Mr N fell victim to fraud, 
Id need to be persuaded that the builder he hired had a settled intention to scam him. 
Obviously, I cannot know what was in the minds of the builder at the time they agreed to 
carry out these repairs. As a result, I must infer what their intentions were based on what the 
available evidence tells me.
Unfortunately, Im not persuaded that the extremely poor quality of work evidenced in the 
surveyors report necessarily proves fraud. Its at least as likely that the root cause was 
incompetence or maladministration. In such circumstances, Mr N may have a civil claim for damages for breach of contract against the builder, but it wouldnt entitle him to have his 
losses reimbursed by the bank under the CRM Code.
Mr N reported the matter to the police, but the police have determined that that this is a civil 
matter. I can see that the first investigating officer was of a different view and appeared to be 
leaning towards treating this as fraudulent. He certainly wanted to interview the builder about 
what had happened. The file was then passed to a different officer who concluded that there 
was no evidence of a crime. At the very least, this demonstrates that the issue of whether 
the builder committed the crime of fraud was a finely balanced one. 
Enquiries made with the receiving bank  i.e. the bank that operated the builders bank 
accounts  do not suggest that the builders operations are fraudulent. Mr N is the first 
person that theyre aware of that has made an allegation of fraud against the builder in 
connection either with the builders personal account or company account. On balance, if the 
builder were a fraudster, I think its likely that there would be other victims and that at least 
one wouldve raised their concerns with their bank.
In addition, the company continues to trade and submitted its annual accounts to Companies 
House less than 6 months ago. It appears to have operated uneventfully for several years 
before this dispute with Mr N, which isnt consistent with what Id expect if the builder had 
been a fraudster.
Ive also looked at additional evidence submitted by Mr N that shows communications 
between him and the builder. In several of these, Mr N contends that the contractor made 
false statements about the works and that these persuaded him to make further transfers. 
Unfortunately, I dont find the examples he cites meet the threshold for fraud. For example, 
at one point the builder told Mr N the complete work would be bomb proof. But in my view, 
this comment (and several others) was just the sort of exaggeration one might expect from a 
business as to the quality of their service and was not to be taken literally. It was certainly 
not a specific claim or promise that could form the basis of an allegation of fraud.
Im enormously sympathetic to the position Mr N finds himself in. He has clearly been very 
badly let down by the builder and its had a tremendously significant impact on his life. Hes 
also out of pocket for a huge sum of money. But Im afraid I dont think HSBC has acted 
unfairly in declining to reimburse him under the CRM Code. I think the proper avenue for him 
to pursue to get redress would be through the civil courts. Its worth noting that only a small 
fraction of his total losses would be recoverable under the CRM Code anyway, since it 
doesnt apply to cash withdrawals. But if Mr N were to take legal action, he could look to 
recover his total losses. It goes without saying he should seek independent legal advice 
before deciding what to do next.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman