DRN-3929741
The complaint
Mr D complains about how esure Insurance Limited handled a claim he made on his motor 
insurance policy.
Reference to esure includes its agents
What happened
Mr D holds a motor insurance policy with esure. After he was involved in an accident, he 
made a claim which esure accepted. esure arranged for repairs to be carried out.
Mr D complains about two main points during the claim.
He says he was contacted by another party fraudulently claiming to be esure. He says he 
reported this to esure because he was worried about his financial safety and he wasnt 
happy with esures response or updates  he says he never found out the outcome of its 
investigation. And hes unhappy with the quality of the repairs and thinks more rectification 
work is needed.
esure agreed its communication could have been clearer surrounding both the investigation 
into the calls Mr D received and the follow up rectification work. It offered Mr D £200 
compensation. 
Mr D wasnt happy with esures response, so he brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator agreed esure could have been clearer, and noted that it not being had 
caused Mr D avoidable distress and inconvenience. She thought thered been a breakdown 
in communication in relation to any outstanding repairs but thought esure was acting 
reasonably when agreeing to look at those issues again. She thought esure should offer 
another £100 compensation, taking the total to £300.
Neither Mr D nor esure agreed. So, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why.
Mr D was contacted by a company alleging to be esure. He thinks this is likely due to 
his data being breached. He told esure about this and esure said it would investigate. 
esure said as it was a company pretending to be itself, it wasnt responsible. But it 
said it took the matter seriously and would investigate the matter after taking details 
from Mr D. Im satisfied it did this.
I understand Mr D wanting to know the result of that investigation, but Im not 
persuaded its something esure need to notify him of. It may well have impacted 
other customers, and I wouldnt expect esure to give him details of that. Nor am I 
persuaded esure needed to let Mr D know what if found or what action it was taking.  
But that should have been made clearer to him. And if it were, I think a considerable 
amount of distress and inconvenience could have been avoided.
Its understandable that Mr D was worried, and esure needed to take his concerns 
seriously. Im satisfied it did take them seriously, but it could have, and should have 
managed his expectations better. Had it done so, I find it likely Mr D would have been 
less distressed and less inconvenienced by the number of chasers he made.
In relation to the outstanding repairs, esure says its repairer made contact with Mr D 
to request pictures needed to assess any work needed but never heard back. Mr D 
says he never received such contact. In any case, esure has agreed to look into the 
work and see if its something its able to cover. So, should Mr D want to move 
forward with this he should contact esure. esure in turn, should look to see if the 
repairs its repairer carried out are sufficient and look to see if any further work is 
required. If work is required  and related to either the accident or the repair - esure 
should arrange for that work to be carried out.
I understand Mr D thinks more compensation is warranted, especially when 
considering his health. I can understand his perspective and have taken on board his 
points. But Im satisfied a further £100, taking the total to £300 is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require esure Insurance Limited 
to:
Increase the total compensation to £300. Its already sent £200 in two cheques. It 
only needs to pay the difference between £300 and whatever has already been 
cashed by Mr D in relation to compensation given on this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman