DRN-3055283
The complaint
Mr S complains about the actions of Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money 
(Clydesdale) in relation to an overdraft on his account. 
Clydesdale are the correct respondent for this complaint, and where I reference them, it 
includes other banks that have previously been part of the same group with which Mr S 
account has been held. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. Mr S noticed he had an overdraft facility of 
£100 attached to his Clydesdale account, he doesnt remember asking for or authorising it. 
Clydesdale removed the facility when Mr S contacted them about it. Mr S is unhappy, whilst 
he wanted it to be removed, he believes Clydesdale doing so has caused him a loss of £100 
which he would like back. He is also unhappy with the service he received surrounding this 
matter. 
Clydesdale responded to the complaint. They explained that the £100 overdraft facility had 
been on his account since at least July 2000. They explained this was a benefit of the type of 
account he held and as such a separate agreement wasnt required. They accepted that the 
customer service theyd provided hadnt been to the standard they usually aim for and so 
they paid Mr S £50 compensation for the impact of this. 
Mr S wasnt happy with this outcome and referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators explained that the overdraft was a lending facility and that by removing the 
option for Mr S to borrow up to £100 (in the event that hed withdrawn or spent all his other 
funds) hadnt caused him a loss. She also concluded the £50 compensation was fair in the 
circumstances.  
Mr S disagreed and felt parts of his complaint had been ignored. So, he asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mr S, so Ill explain why. 
I also know that Mr S has felt that certain elements of his complaint havent been addressed. 
Our service is an informal dispute resolution service. As such it isnt always necessary to 
comment on or address every point or issue to resolve a complaint. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy, it is just a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
Ultimately here, Mr S believes hes been caused a loss by the removal of his overdraft 
facility. The overdraft facility is a feature of the type of account Mr S holds with Clydesdale. It 
would have allowed him access to up to £100 over and above the credit balance he had in 
his account. It was an agreement that his balance could go down to minus £100 if hed 
required this. So, when the facility was removed, it didnt cause any loss to Mr S. It just 
means now the lowest his balance would be permitted to go to would be zero. Clydesdale 
didnt debit funds from Mr S account, they just removed the agreement for him to go up to 
£100 overdrawn. As Im satisfied there has been no loss, Clydesdale dont need to do 
anything further in relation to the removal of the overdraft.  
Whilst the complaint was with our service Mr S added that hed never agreed to the overdraft 
facility in the first place. Clydesdale have said its been in place since at least July 2000. Ive 
also looked at many years of statements for Mr S and it seems he never made use of the 
facility. So even if the facility was unauthorised as Mr S says (something I make no finding 
on) it has still caused him no detriment. He never used the facility and by his own admission 
says he wasnt aware of it until recently. So, I dont think it was something he was caused 
worry or concern over. 
So all that remains to be considered is the service that Clydesdale provided when dealing 
with this matter. Both sides agree it could have been better. Mr S has referenced several 
issues which include certain call recordings not being available and believing the £50 
Clydesdale offered to be hush money. Ive considered all of these and having done so, I 
think the £50 is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr S experienced in 
relation to Clydesdales overall handling of this matter. So, Im not going to direct that this 
should be increased or ask Clydesdale to do more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman