DRN-3517363
The complaint
Mr A complains that Motors Insurance Company Limited (MICL) has unfairly declined a 
claim under his GAP insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ill summarise events.
In May 2021 Mr A was involved in a motor accident. Following making a claim with 
Company A, he says he was left with a shortfall of around £20,000. He also said the 
insurer had failed to collect the vehicle leading to it being salvaged.
Mr A claimed on his MICL GAP policy in November 2021 to recover the shortfall.
MICL declined the claim on the basis the vehicle was not a total loss so did not meet 
the policy terms. It also said the claim was submitted too late, and it wasnt given an 
opportunity to inspect the vehicle before it was salvaged.
Mr A complained to MICL saying it had already told him the claim would be paid, and 
he was unhappy with its decline. And he said the timeframes to claim were unclear, 
and he raised concerns about the report MICL relied upon. He also said he had no 
control over whether his car was disposed of before MICL could consider it.
MICL said its agents had approved the valuation for the vehicle, but this was a 
separate process to approving the claim. And it stood by its reasons for the decline.
Our Investigator considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. Weighing up the 
available reports, she said the vehicle was most likely not an economical write off, 
prior to it being salvaged. She also said it had been brought to MICL too late, so it 
had fairly declined the claim. 
Mr A disagreed, saying the engineers relied upon by MICL werent credible, and their 
inspection was limited to a desktop review one as opposed to an in-person 
assessment. He also reiterated his concerns about MICLs timeframe requirements. 
The Investigator didnt change their mind, so the complaint has been passed to me 
for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr As GAP policy is designed to provide cover in the event his vehicle is stolen or 
damaged beyond economical repair and deemed a total loss by his motor insurer.
Mr As policy requires him to contact MICL within within 120 days of Your Total Loss 
occurring. Im satisfied this wording is clear within the policy, and common across 
insurances of this nature.
In this case, it seems clear to me Mr A has contacted MICL sometime after this 120-
day requirement. However, I would expect MICL to have considered the impact of 
bringing the claim late and whether it would be fair to decline the claim on this basis. 
MICL went on to consider the available evidence. It has highlighted that it shouldve 
been given an opportunity to review the vehicle itself. I think this is a reasonable 
request for an insurer when considering a claim.
Mr A has raised concerns that Company A  his insurer  failed to collect the car 
which led to it being salvaged. So, he says it wasnt his fault that MICL was unable to 
inspect it. However, any dispute about Company As inaction lies between him and 
Company A  not MICL. So, I think its fair for MICL to raise that it wasnt given a 
chance to inspect the vehicle as well as the claim was made late.
Mr A provided a report from Company B from June 2021, commissioned by a claims 
management company. Ive included part of the engineers commentary below. 
we would recommend the vehicle to be dealt with on a total loss basis. As 
Structural damage has been found in line with the ABI Salvage Code Of Practice 
we would recommend the vehicle dealt with on a category 'S' (structural total 
loss) basis. 
The vehicle may be returned to use assuming repairs are carried out to a safe 
standard and the vehicle is capable of passing a M.O.T. test thereafter.
So, its clear to me this engineer was of the belief the vehicle was a total loss.
Following its review of this information, MICL had an independent engineer 
(Company C) review the vehicles damage based on the available evidence. Taking 
into account it wasnt given an opportunity to review the vehicle itself, I think this was 
a reasonable step for it to take. 
Company C provided detailed report and commentary as to why it felt Company Bs 
report was unreliable and inaccurate. Including comments that the previous engineer 
had failed to obtain an odometer reading, and questioned the level of damage hed 
assessed was correct. He concluded:
Based upon my assessment of the damage seen to the Claimants [vehicle] and 
the likely repair method required, whilst there might be some additional or a 
reduction in the costs associated with this repair, the vehicle is clearly a 
repairable proposition.
This suggests to me that the vehicle wasnt beyond economical repair.
Ive considered both reports carefully and Im satisfied its fair for MICL to rely on 
Company Cs advice. I say this as it is very specific and detailed in its concerns about 
the Company Bs review. And while I recognise it was not completed in person  this 
simply wasnt possible due to the vehicle being salvaged prior to MICL being given 
an opportunity to do so  which was outside of its control and the responsibility of 
either Mr A or Company A.
So, I think MICL has acted reasonably by relying on the advice of the independent 
engineer  Company C. And Im satisfied it has fairly declined this claim in line with 
the policy terms. 
Mr A also argues that his discussions with MICL regarding the valuation should be 
considered as an acceptance of the claim. I disagree. Ive read all of the 
correspondence and I dont believe its actions to value the vehicle would be 
reasonable to interpret as an acceptance of the claim. So, Im satisfied it hasnt 
misled Mr A as hes alleged.My final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman