DRN-3330885
The complaint
Mr D complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited declined his critical illness claim. 
Mr D has been helped by his wife in raising this complaint but, for ease of reference, my 
decision will refer to him only.  
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 2009 Mr D set up a life and critical illness assurance policy with a firm that Aviva has since 
acquired liability for. The policy was set up over a 25-year term, providing £120,000 of cover 
on a decreasing basis. 
Mr D went to hospital on 9 May 2021 after suffering from chest pain. A further episode of 
chest pain was suffered while in hospital. An acute myocardial infarction (heart attack) 
diagnosis was made.   
A claim was made under the policy but Aviva declined it. In short, they said: 
The medical report they received shows Mr Ds troponin T levels were recorded at 
0.04ng/ml and increased to 0.145ng/ml. The policy definition for Heart attack  of 
specified severity requires the level to be at least 1.0ng/ml.
Theyd also considered the electrocardiogram and echocardiogram results, with the 
echocardiogram showing no abnormalities. While the symptoms were typical of a 
myocardial infarction, the troponin levels fell below the threshold required by the 
policy definition.
Critical illness cover is an important protection product but its not able to provide 
protection for all illnesses. It provides protection for a selection of illnesses of a 
specified severity  and these illnesses and their specifics must meet minimum 
standards dictated by the Association of British Insurers (ABI).
Mr D complained but Aviva didnt change their position. In short, they added:
Troponin is a measure used to diagnose heart attacks and determine its severity. 
Their chief medical officer (CMO) considered all the evidence, taking into account the 
time of Mr Ds coronary angioplasty with stenting, but concluded there isnt any 
evidence to show the severity level wouldve been met. 
While Mr D had a rise in troponin T levels, they didnt rise to the required level in the 
policy definition. On occasion they do afford some flexibility to the troponin levels set 
out in the policy conditions, but they didnt consider Mr Ds situation is one that would 
warrant payment. 
They took into consideration Mr Ds echocardiogram results which show the left 
ventricle and ejection fraction were normal and there were no regional wall motion 
abnormalities. This, together with the relatively small rise in troponin levels, gives 
them additional evidence it was not a severe heart attack. 
The matter was referred to our service but our investigator thought Aviva had fairly declined 
the claim. He said it wasnt in dispute that Mr D had a heart attack but the policy only covers 
those of a defined severity. And, as Mr Ds troponin levels didnt reach 1.0ng/ml the policy 
definition hasnt been met. He noted Aviva also considered the claim against the ABIs most 
up to date minimum standards for critical illness cover which provides a troponin level of 
0.2ng/ml for heart attacks. But Mr Ds highest reading was still below this threshold and so 
this further suggested Aviva had fairly considered the claim. 
Our investigator also acknowledged that Mr Ds highest reading (0.145ng/ml) was taken after 
he had his stent fitted on 11 May 2021. And so, its possible his troponin levels may have 
peaked before this and been higher than the 0.2ng/ml ABI guidance. But while this may be 
the case, he thought there would need to be evidence of this to be able to say Aviva had 
wrongly declined the claim. And Mr Ds cardiologist had likewise confirmed the possibility of 
his troponin T levels peaking on 10 May 2021, maybe above 0.2ng/ml, but said there was no 
evidence to either prove or disprove this. 
Mr D disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr D that I dont underestimate the impact the heart attacks have had on 
him. But what I must consider here is whether Aviva has acted fairly by declining the claim. I 
know this isnt the outcome he is hoping for but Im not upholding this complaint, and for 
similar reasons to that of our investigator. Let me explain why.
At which point Id like to explain that my decision will focus on what I think is most relevant. 
So, if I dont mention any specific point, it isnt because Ive failed to take it on board and 
think about it but rather, I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a fair 
and reasonable outcome.
Ive firstly considered the policy terms which sets out the contract between Mr D and Aviva, 
including when a claim should be paid. This, in respect of a claim for a heart attack  of 
specified severity, says:
Death of heart muscle, due to inadequate bloody supply, that has resulted in all of 
the following evidence of acute myocardial infarction:
typical clinical symptoms (for example, characteristic chest pain);
new characteristic electrocardiographic changes;
the characteristic rise of cardiac enzymes or Troponins recorded at the following 
levels or higher:
oTroponin T > 1.0ng/ml
oAccuTnl > 0.5ng/ml or equivalent threshold with other Troponin I methods.
The evidence must show a definite acute myocardial infarction.For the above definition, the following are not covered:
other acute coronary syndromes including but not limited to angina.
It isnt in dispute that Mr D suffered a heart attack. Im aware there has been some 
contention between both parties around whether various aspects of the above definition 
have been met. Aviva has however since confirmed that the reason for declining the claim is 
limited to Mr Ds troponin T levels. I will therefore only focus on that when considering 
whether the claim was fairly declined. 
As everyone is aware, Mr Ds highest recorded troponin reading was 0.145ng/ml which is 
below the policy requirement of 1.0ng/ml. It therefore follows that Mr Ds heart attack didnt 
meet the above policy definition.
The definition used in the policy is the same that the ABI provided in the April 2006 
Statement of Best Practice for Critical Illness Cover  which was the applicable guidance 
when the policy was set up. Because of this, I dont think the definition included within the 
policy was unfair or that it went against industry best practice. 
Im aware however that the ABI, in their December 2014 Statement of Best Practice for 
Critical Illness Cover, reduced the troponin level in their model definition to 0.2ng/ml. And it 
remained as 0.2ng/ml in the ABIs most recent guidance released in May 2018  the ABI 
guide to minimum standards for critical illness cover. As part of their consideration of Mr Ds 
claim, Aviva also assessed it against this lower troponin requirement. But, again, as Mr Ds 
highest reading didnt exceed this threshold they considered his heart attack wasnt of the 
severity required for the claim to be paid.
Mr D argues that, as the methods used to measure troponin levels has changed since the 
policy was originally taken out, it isnt reasonable to consider his claim against either 1.0ngml 
or 0.2ng/ml. This is because the high sensitivity assays currently used can record troponin 
levels between 10 and 100-fold lower than conventional assays. And a troponin reading as 
low as 0.04ng/ml would be considered as abnormal today and indicative of a heart attack, 
whereas it wouldnt have been before. Mr D therefore thinks that his troponin reading should 
be measured against a requirement at least tenfold lower  for example, 0.02ng/ml. In which 
case, he wouldve exceeded the requirement and the claim should be paid. 
Ive given what Mr D has said careful thought but I disagree. As hes aware, the use of high 
sensitivity assays has two distinct advantages over conventional assays  those being the 
ability to identity lower troponin levels and also being able to do so quicker. Because of this, 
its now possible for smaller rises in troponin levels to be picked up. Therefore, allowing 
heart attacks to be more easily found. However, while high sensitivity assays can identify 
lower troponin levels than conventional assays, that doesnt mean the recordings are not 
comparable. If Mr Ds troponin levels had reached in excess of 0.2ng/ml then this would be 
found irrespective of the type of assay used (albeit with greater accuracy using the high 
sensitivity assay). 
Critical illness cover doesnt cover every eventuality but only insured events. In this case, for 
a claim to be paid the heart attack must be of a specified severity. In short, this means that 
less severe heart attacks wont be covered. And, although not contractually required to 
consider Mr Ds claim against a lower troponin requirement, I think Aviva acted reasonably 
by assessing it in line with the ABIs current model definition. I think this was fair in the 
circumstances. Again, and to be clear, it isnt in question whether Mr D suffered a heart attack. The issue 
here is whether Mr Ds heart attack was of the severity required for a claim to be paid. And 
the highest reading of 0.0145ng/ml  taken on 11 May 2021  is below the threshold of 
0.2ng/ml Aviva assessed the claim against. Mr D however says that his troponin levels 
werent tested the day prior, when he believes they wouldve been at their highest. And that 
both his cardiac consultant and Avivas CMO support the possibility it wouldve peaked on 
that day. Therefore, Mr D feels it is more likely than not that his troponin levels exceeded 
0.2ng/ml.
We cant know with any certainty whether Mr Ds troponin levels wouldve peaked the day 
before his highest reading and, importantly, exceeded 0.2ng/ml. I have however considered 
what Avivas CMO said:
This is very difficult  it is possible that the trop would have peaked on 10th May, 
and thus may have been over 200. I do agree that regardless this was a small event, 
given the low levels and the normal echo, but I cannot be sure that the threshold was 
not crossed.
And, Mr Ds cardiac consultant:
Your specific question for me was it feasible that your troponin level could have 
peaked on 10th May at over 200ng/L and then fallen to 145ng/L as measured on the 
11th May 2021. I agree with what the AVIVA Chief Medical Officer has stated. This is 
very difficult. It is possible that the troponin would have peaked on 10th May, and 
thus may have been over 200ng/L. Unfortunately, there is no evidence to either 
prove or disprove this.
This makes it clear that its possible Mr Ds troponin levels may have exceeded 0.2ng/ml. 
That said, as I explained, critical illness cover only covers insured events  as specified in 
the policy terms. And I dont think it would be fair to expect an insurer to pay a claim for 
something that may have happened. I think there needs to be persuasive evidence that the 
insured event occurred. 
In Mr Ds case, the medical evidence doesnt demonstrate his troponin readings reached 
0.2ng/ml. But I think Avivas consideration of the echocardiogram results as relevant when 
looking at the likelihood of whether it happened. And Aviva explained to Mr D that these 
results showed:
the left ventricle and ejection fraction were normal and there were no regional wall 
motion abnormalities. This, together with the relatively small wise in troponin levels, 
gives us additional evidence it was not a severe heart attack
Ive noted Mr Ds point that the policy terms dont refer to an echocardiogram being used to 
measure the severity of a heart attack. And hes correct in saying that it isnt a policy 
requirement for a heart attack claim. However, I dont consider it unreasonable for Aviva to 
consider the wider medical evidence available to them  including but not limited to an 
echocardiogram  when assessing the severity of a heart where its unclear whether it has 
met the policy definition. Specifically, in Mr Ds case, whether the troponin levels may have 
reached 0.2ng/ml or not. This is because, had the echocardiogram (or any of the other 
investigations) indicated significant damage or abnormalities then this wouldve suggested a 
more severe heart attack  thus supporting the possibility Mr Ds troponin levels being higher 
than what was recorded. I know Mr D strongly disagrees with Avivas claim decision. But I dont think Aviva has acted 
unfairly or outside the policy terms by declining it. Im not persuaded theres sufficient 
evidence to show Mr D suffered a heart of the severity defined in the policy terms or that of 
the reduced 0.2ng/ml troponin threshold. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman