DRN-2902717
The complaint
Mr J complains Honda Finance Europe Plc trading as Honda Financial Services (HFS) 
misrepresented Personal Contract Purchase agreements (PCP) and the guaranteed 
minimum future value (GMFV) was set too low. He asks for the interest on the agreement to 
refunded.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and were set out in detail in the 
investigators opinion of 23 June 2021, so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus 
on giving my reasons for my decision.
In summary, the investigator didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. He said although he accepted, 
he wasnt present and so couldnt confirm what was said at the time of the sale. The 
agreements Mr J signed were very clear about the allowable mileage on the contract and so 
he felt he ought to have been aware or reasonably have been aware of the permitted annual 
mileage. 
Mr J disagreed and so it has come to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider having been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
The PCP agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit. This service has the power 
to look into complaints about the mis-sale of regulated agreements  such as this  against 
the finance provider, so Im satisfied that we can consider this complaint against Honda.
In my view, the crux of this complaint boils down to Mr J saying he did not get what he was 
led to believe by the dealership he was going to get. In other words, he is saying the PCP 
agreement was misrepresented by dealership regarding any annual mileage allowance. 
Specifically, misrepresentation here, means a false statement of fact that the consumer 
relied on to his detriment.
So, Ive considered whether the dealer made a misrepresentation about the mileage. There 
arent any notes of the discussions between Mr J and the dealer, although in its 
investigations Honda has said the dealership refutes the allegations that the permitted 
mileage was not made clear to Mr J. Because I wasnt present, I cant be certain of exactly 
what was said. In circumstances like this, I need to look at the documents which came into 
existence at the time, as well as taking into account the wider circumstances of the case, to 
decide whats most likely to have happened.
Ive noted this is the third PCP agreement Mr J has taken with this dealership, so this tells 
me he has had experience of both PCP agreements and this dealership previously. I 
understand Mr J says the mileage at 6,000 miles would barely cover his journeys to work. So 
I have looked closely at the finance agreement and the PCP disclaimer. The permitted 
mileage is very clear on these documents. The disclaimer he has signed has little else on it, 
so its not hidden or unclear in my view. So, whilst I accept that I cant say for certain that Mr 
J wasnt misled as he submits, taking everything into account Im not persuaded (on the 
balance of probabilities) that he was. Furthermore, even if I had concluded otherwise, I may 
well have found that it wasnt reasonable for Mr J to have relied on what he says he was 
told, or wasnt told, verbally given what he was required to sign and agree to afterwards.
So, on balance from what Ive seen the documentation clearly sets out Mr J cant travel more 
than 6,000 miles a year without further charge and I think Mr J should have been reasonably 
aware of this.
With regard to the GMTV, this is set when HFS arrange a PCP agreement. It says:
it uses a prediction of how much it believes the car will be worth at the end of the agreement 
based on the term and anticipated mileage. It acknowledges it cant dictate what a third-party 
dealership would pay for the car but the benefit of the GMTV is  if the vehicle is worth less 
than the amount guaranteed at the end of the term, providing it has not exceeded the 
mileage restriction and is in a fair condition for the age and mileage, the customer has the 
option to return the vehicle to the finance company and would therefore not have to pay any 
negative equity to end the finance agreement.
Mr J claims the GMTV has been set to low, but this is a commercial decision determined by 
HFS, and not something I comment on. Based on the evidence that Ive seen and taking all 
of the circumstances of the complaint into account, I cant conclude that the agreement was 
mis-sold or that the dealership has misrepresented the future value of the car. I appreciate 
that Mr J hasnt decided what to do with the car yet but the option to return the car at the end 
of the term remains open to him and if he chose this option he would not be liable for any 
negative equity, providing it has not exceeded the mileage restriction and is in a fair 
condition for the age and mileage because of the guaranteed minimum value. 
I appreciate Mr J will be disappointed but for the reasons I have given I dont uphold this 
complaint and I wont be asking HFS to do anything further.
My final decisionFor the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman