DRN-4330674
The complaint
Mr R is a sole trader trading as H. He complains that when he opened a business account 
with ClearBank Limited, his payment into the account was blocked for 14 days causing him 
to lose income.
What happened
In February 2023 Mr R opened a business account with ClearBank to take advantage of an 
opening offer. He deposited £750 but this payment was initially blocked for security checks 
to take place. The payment was made on 24 February but was not released by ClearBank 
until 9 March. He says that in the meantime he lost a possible job for which he was due to 
receive a payment of £3,000 and this put him in difficulty paying his mortgage and other 
payments.
ClearBank advised Mr R that the payment was held back for standard security checks. It 
said this was not something it could control and it couldnt promise timescales. It said that 
the process of monitoring account transactions was designed to keep the integrity of the 
account. Nevertheless, it could have elaborated and set proper expectations with him 
throughout the case. On this occasion, it said it couldnt justify the delay as the security 
check could have been completed earlier than 9 March.
ClearBank offered Mr R £100 compensation. It said that if he could provide evidence of his 
financial losses it would consider them. 
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator said that ClearBanks 
terms and conditions allow it to block payments for further investigation at any point. She 
wasn't persuaded that Mr A had provided evidence of any losses.
Mr A was not happy and said that the Investigator should have asked for further details of 
why ClearBank blocked the transaction as he was concerned that his name was similar to 
another person who might have been involved in criminal activity.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think from considering the information that ClearBank has supplied to us and that given to 
Mr A, that the reason the payment was held up was because this was a new account and 
because ClearBank wanted to carry out standard security checks. This was to ensure that 
the payment that Mr A had made into the account was genuine. ClearBank did this in line 
with its standard terms and conditions. I appreciate that Mr A would like more information as 
to why his payment was blocked and that he would like us to obtain that information. But I 
don't think in this case that there is any indication that the initial block on the account was 
anything more than due to standard security checks. I take note that the payment was 
released within 14 days and that ClearBank in its response to Mr A said the security checks 
should have been completed sooner. Whilst I note that Mr A has indicated that other 
payments on other accounts have also been held up, I'm looking here solely at the payment 
into his ClearBank account.
So I think that whilst ClearBank was entitled to carry out the security checks, it should have 
kept Mr A more clearly informed and that there was a delay in completing the security 
checks, more than was necessary. For this ClearBank has offered compensation of £100. 
I think that was a fair and reasonable offer for the further delay and the failure to keep him 
informed.
Mr A said the delay has caused him to lose profit of £3,000 on a job he was due to 
undertake. He says that the £750 was needed for purchasing supplies and that he would 
have gone ahead and done this and then been paid for the full job. Mr A was asked for 
evidence of any financial losses. However he says he had a verbal contract and hasn't been 
able to show us any documentary evidence. I can't see that the fact of this contract could 
have been shown anything other than by documentary evidence eg a written contract or 
written estimate and acceptance. In any event I'm not persuaded that the holding up of the 
£750 more than was necessary caused him to lose the contract.
I understand Mr As point that not receiving a payment of £3,000 would have put him in 
difficulty in paying his mortgage and other payments but I'm not satisfied that this was a 
direct effect of him having his payment held up by ClearBank.
My final decision
ClearBank has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that ClearBank Limited should pay £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman