DRN-3282333
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr H are unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC only offered them limited options 
for a new interest rate deal. 
What happened
Mrs B and Mr H took out a mortgage with Barclays in 2013. The mortgage was secured on 
the property they lived in.
In 2020, Mrs B and Mr H asked Barclays for permission to let (PTL) their property. Theyve 
explained they needed to move closer to their daughters new school. So, wanted to rent out 
their home and rent a property nearer to the school  until she finished her studies.
Barclays granted PTL on the property.
In early 2021, as the fixed interest rate deal on Mrs B and Mr Hs mortgage was ending, they 
asked Barclays about what new rates they could take.
Barclays said, as it had granted PTL and they were not living in the property, they could only 
take interest rates specifically for PTL customers. The rate available was for two years and 
was a tracker rate (1.9% above the Bank of England base rate). I understand Mrs B and 
Mr H did reluctantly take out this new rate.
Mrs B and Mr H complained to Barclays about the interest rates made available to them. 
They were unhappy that theyd not been given any other options and with the rate itself, 
which they felt wasnt as good as other options available to residential customers.
Barclays said it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It has told our service that one of its 
conditions for agreeing PTL is that no changes to the mortgage (term, interest rate etc.) will 
usually be allowed while the property is let. But it introduced new rates specifically for 
customers with PTL  which were priced in line with its buy-to-let mortgages. It said that 
these were tracker rates so that, if a customer moved back into their property within the term 
of the interest rate deal, theyd be able to switch to a new residential interest rate without 
incurring any early repayment charges. And it felt it had treated Mrs B and Mr H fairly, in line 
with other customers in the same position.
Mrs B and Mr H said they still felt the situation was unfair, that Barclays should be required 
to change its policy on this and that regulations around this scenario should also be 
changed. One of our Investigators considered the complaint. He explained that our service 
was not a regulator, so couldnt change the relevant regulations or require Barclays to 
change its policy. And he didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly.
Mrs B and Mr H did not agree. They said they didnt feel it was fair the only option given to 
them was a tracker rate, rather than a fixed rate product. As they did not agree with our 
Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B and Mr H have a residential mortgage with Barclays  the basis of which being that 
they lived at the property used as security for the mortgage and that it was their home. Due 
to personal circumstances, they wanted to live elsewhere temporarily. Barclays granted 
permission for the property to be let, allowing Mrs B and Mr H to rent the property out as a 
concession, while the mortgage remained on a residential basis. But, as they were no longer 
living at the property, the usage of it had changed.
As the property wasnt being used on a residential basis, Barclays would no longer allow 
residential interest rate deals to be applied. And said that Mrs B and Mr H could only have its 
specific permission to let rate. I think this is fair. 
Barclays has different lending criteria and risk appetites for let properties as compared to 
residential ones  as is standard industry practice. Which is why it offers different products 
for each scenario with different features  not least different interest rates. Mrs B and Mr H 
are using the property outside of the mortgage terms agreed when it was first taken, albeit 
with permission from Barclays. So as a result, I think it is fair for Barclays to treat the 
mortgage differently to standard residential ones. Because if Barclays was required to allow 
Mrs B and Mr H to take a new residential interest rate product, that would effectively allow 
them to maintain all of the benefits of a residential mortgage, including the available interest 
rates, while not using the property on a residential basis. 
PTL is a concession  where Barclays allows Mrs B and Mr H to act outside the agreed 
terms. Its not uncommon for lenders in the industry to say that where such a concession is 
granted, no new rates are available. And a borrower will have to remain on their originally 
agreed rate, and subsequent reversion rate when this deal finished, while the property is let. 
And so, by offering a specific PTL rate, I think Barclays is acting fairly.
Barclays has explained it has set its PTL rate in reference to the rates it offers to buy-to-let 
customers  which I think is reasonable given the purpose for which the property is being 
used. And it has said it offers a variable rate so that consumers who give up their permission 
to let before the interest rate deal ends wouldnt face charges for switching back to a 
residential product. Which I also I think this is fair.
Barclays has treated Mrs B and Mr H the same as other customers in a similar situation  by 
allowing them to take up the specific rate it offers to customers with PTL. So overall, I think it 
has treated them fairly.
Mrs B and Mr H are unhappy with the rate that Barclays offers to PTL customers and want 
our service to require Barclays to change its policies. They also think regulations around 
what rates should be offered in these circumstances should also be changed.
As our Investigator said, our service is not a regulator. And we are unable to change 
legislation or regulations. We also cant require Barclays to change its policies or the interest 
rates it offers in general  as these are a matter of its commercial judgement. I understand 
why Mrs B and Mr H may prefer a different rate  such as a fixed one that Barclays offers to 
buy-to-let or standard residential customers. But their mortgage isnt a buy-to-let mortgage. 
Nor is it being operated in line with standard residential terms. They are able to apply to vary 
the mortgage to a buy-to-let basis. Or to return to the property. But I dont think itd be fair to 
require Barclays to offer them a rate that they do not qualify for based on their current 
circumstances.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman