DRN-3867326
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) managed his 
account after he told it he was the victim of a scam.
What happened
Mr H says direct debit indemnity claims were made on his account on 29 March 2022, by 
someone other than himself. When the money was credited to his account, he says he 
transferred £2,327 to a crypto currency account to which he no longer has access. The 
direct debit indemnity claims were then declined and re-debited his account leaving him 
significantly overdrawn. Mr H adds that his account is now closed and he is unable to make 
his credit card payments so he is receiving arrears notices which are causing him additional 
stress.
RBS said that the person requesting the indemnity claims would have been asked several 
security questions and would have given satisfactory answers. It said it was correct to re-
debit the account when the claims were rejected but accepted its customer service should 
have been better. RBS credited Mr Hs account with £50 as compensation for this and 
confirmed that the account is not closed.
Following further information, on 27 September 2022, RBS then offered to clear the debit 
balance on Mr Hs account by refunding him £2,622.21 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr H initially accepted this offer, but on 26 October 2022 he said he still hadnt received the 
settlement and wanted additional compensation.
RBS confirmed the settlement was actioned on 19 October 2022.
Our investigator considered RBSs offer was fair. He was satisfied that RBS had refunded 
the money that Mr H lost as part of the scam, plus an additional £295.21 to clear his 
overdraft. He acknowledged the fraud would have caused Mr H stress and upset but found 
RBSs settlement was reasonable.
Mr H responded to say, in summary, that he expected funds in his account, and he deserved 
further compensation for all the delays and his time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H was contacted via social media and was persuaded to transfer money to a crypto 
currency fund. He was told money with which to do that would be paid into his current 
account. During the discussions, Mr H disclosed information about his bank account that the 
fraudster was able to use to raise indemnity claims for several direct debits. When the 
proceeds from these claims credited Mr Hs account on, 29 March 2022, he transferred the 
money (£2,327) into the crypto account.
Shortly afterwards, Mr H was no longer able to access the crypto currency account and then, 
on 7 April 2022., the direct debit indemnity claims were rejected and the money re-debited 
his account. This left Mr Hs account overdrawn by £2,622.21.
Although Mr H lost his money due to the actions of a fraudster, RBS offered to refund it, plus 
an additional amount so that Mr Hs account would no longer be overdrawn. Ive seen 
evidence to show that RBS paid £2,622.21 into Mr Hs account on 19 October 2022 and that 
his account balance was back to zero on that date.
I understand that Mr H may have misunderstood he would be receiving the refund, rather 
than it being used to clear his overdraft, but I dont find RBS was unreasonable in using the 
money to credit his account. I also acknowledge that distress and uncertainty Mr H would 
have experienced when he realised hed been the victim of a scam. Although RBS cannot be 
held responsible for this, I note it has credited Mr H with £295.21 more than Mr H lost to the 
fraudster, plus an additional £50 for its own poor customer service.
In all the circumstances of the complaint, Im satisfied RBS has acted fairly.
My final decision
My decision is that I find RBSs settlement fair and reasonable and it doesnt need to do 
anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman