DRN-3843550
The complaint
Mr S complains Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) poorly handled a claim he 
made on the onward travel cover of his motor breakdown policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is known in detail to the parties involved so Ive 
summarised the key points.
Mr S has a roadside assistance policy which provides him with Stay Mobile cover 
which is underwritten by Acromas.
Under this cover if the insured vehicle is immobilised following a breakdown which 
the roadside assistance provider has attended and cannot promptly repair, the 
insured can claim for up to 72 hours use of a replacement vehicle.
Mr Ss vehicle couldnt be promptly repaired so he claimed for a replacement vehicle 
but wasnt offered the full 72 hours entitlement.
Mr S complained to Acromas that it failed to meet its obligations under the policy. 
And that as a result of its actions he had to arrange alternative transport while his 
vehicle was being repaired resulting in taxi costs of £340. 
Acromas upheld this part of his complaint and offered to reimburse taxi costs Mr S 
incurred if he provided receipts confirming the totals he was claiming for. It also 
offered £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its poor service 
caused him.
Our investigator considered Mr Ss complaint and thought what Acromas had already 
offered was fair, so they didnt say it should do anything further. 
Mr S disagreed. He says Acromas should also have to pay him interest on the £340 
reimbursement of taxi costs. 
The case has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Acromas has accepted there were failings in its handling of Mr Ss claim.
The full car hire period wasnt offered as it shouldve been, and it says the service 
that Mr S received from its agents fell short of its usual standards.
Its apologised for this and has offered reimbursement of Mr Ss taxi costs that hes 
provided evidence of and £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience. Im 
satisfied this offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
I say this because Mr S has been reimbursed for the financial loss he incurred as a 
result of Acromass actions. And I think the £150 fairly recognises the further impact 
of these actions on Mr S in him having to spend time trying to sort the matter with 
Acromas and receiving a less than expected service when doing so. 
Mr S seems to accept Acromass offer in part but thinks he should be paid interest on 
the payment of £340 due to the amount of time he was without this money.
But Mr S likely wouldve had the reimbursement of his taxi costs far sooner had he 
provided Acromas with the relevant receipts showing these costs when it requested 
these several months ago.
Its fair for Acromas to ask for this type of evidence and it seems Mr S was in 
possession of this (he provided receipts to this service) but chose not to provide it to 
Acromas. 
Thats his choice, but it meant it wasnt unreasonable that Acromas didnt make any 
payment until this Service provided it with copies of the relevant receipts, at which 
point it raised and made payment of the reimbursement to Mr S promptly. 
This suggests had Mr S complied with Acromass initial request, he most likely 
wouldve received prompt payment from it several months earlier than he did. 
I therefore think Mr S couldve mitigated the time he was without the £340 quite 
significantly. 
By how much exactly, I cant know, but on balance, I think the £150 compensation 
already offered by Acromas fairly recognises any impact of the time Mr S was without 
this money anyway. 
It follows I wont be directing Acromas to pay anything more than what its already 
offered in this case. 
Im aware Mr S says he incurred a further taxi cost as a result of Acromass poor 
handling of his claim, but as of yet, hes been unable to find the receipt. 
Should Mr S find this and present it to Acromas, Id expect it to consider this in line 
with the policy terms. 
My final decision
Acromas Insurance Company Limited has already made an offer to pay £340 reimbursement 
of taxi costs and £150 compensation to settle the complaint and for the reasons set out 
above, I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my final decision is that Acromas Insurance Company Limited should pay £340 
reimbursement of taxi costs and £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience to Mr S 
if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman