DRN-4481230
The complaint
Miss C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) provided her with incorrect 
information regarding the cancellation of the switching of her bank account to another 
provider. Mrs C believes she doesnt get the same benefits on her new account with 
Barclays as she had previously with it. 
What happened
Miss C held a bank account with Barclays. Miss C wished to switch some of her direct debit 
payments over to her account held with another bank but mistakenly initiated a full switch.
Barclays confirmed the request to switch in writing on 27 June. Miss C only realised what 
had happened when she read an email confirming the switch on 29 June and contacted 
Barclays immediately to cancel it. The Barclays advisor Miss C spoke to assured her that 
they could definitely cancel the switch for her and that she didnt need to do anything 
including contacting the bank the account was being switched to.
Unfortunately, this was incorrect  and the switch was completed on 3 July. In order to 
cancel the switch Miss C needed to contact the new bank directly. 
Miss C complained to Barclays about this. She says she spent many hours on the phone to 
Barclays trying to ensure her account remained open and was given incorrect and conflicting 
information regarding this. Miss C is unhappy that Barclays wasnt able to reopen her 
account and she was instead forced to open a new account with Barclays in order to reverse 
the switch. 
Barclays accepted it had made a mistake in telling Miss C that it could cancel the switch and 
offered her compensation of £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused by this.
Miss C was dissatisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Cs concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Barclays incorrect advice had inconvenienced Miss C and caused her to spend more time 
than necessary resolving the issue. They recommended Barclays increase its offer of 
compensation to £150.
Barclays agreed to pay £150 compensation on Miss Cs acceptance. Miss C says she will 
accept £150 on the proviso that she will be switched to a premier account as she previously 
had, fee free as she never paid for it in the past. 
Barclays responded to this explaining that Miss C was part of a mass migration of customers 
into its premier banking in 2015. It says although she was a premier customer and eligible 
for a premier account, her account wasnt and wouldnt be upgraded from the standard 
account until this was discussed with a relationship manager  so the account Miss C holds 
now is the same as she held before the switch. Barclays further confirmed that there was no 
evidence of a fee being charged for the new account.  
Miss C disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to look at the problems Miss C has experienced and see if Barclays has done 
anything wrong or treated her unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Miss C 
back in the position she wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
Both sides agree that the account switching was initiated by Miss C, so I dont need to make 
a finding here. What I need to decide is what Barclays part was in all of this and whether it 
made any errors and if so, what it can do to put things right.
Ive listened to the recording of the phone call between the Barclays advisor and Miss C on 
29 June and there is no doubt they advised her incorrectly that they could and would cancel 
the switch for her and there was nothing she needed to do. And I think its likely that due to 
this error Miss C had to spend more time than was necessary resolving the issue. But I dont 
think I can say based on the evidence Ive seen, that if Miss C had been given the correct 
advice  that she needed to contact the other bank directly to cancel the switch - the 
outcome would be any different.
I say this as it isnt clear how far along the switch had progressed and whether it still couldve 
been cancelled when Miss C called Barclays on Thursday 29 June. The switch had been 
initiated around a week before Miss C called Barclays, the request had been confirmed on 
27 June and the switch completed on Monday 3 July. So I cant say at what point it wouldve 
been too late to cancel or if Miss C had called the other bank instead it wouldve actioned the 
cancellation within one working day of the switch being completed.
My understanding is that Miss C has managed to open a new account. So she is in the 
position she would be in had the mistaken switch had not happened and Barclays has 
agreed to pay her £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused for the incorrect advice  
which I think is fair, as both Barclays and Miss C made errors here and Im not persuaded an 
uplift on the £150 compensation offered is warranted or would make a material difference to 
Miss Cs circumstances.  
In any case Miss C has said she is willing to accept this offer of compensation on the proviso 
that her account will be switched to the premier account with no fee  as that is the account 
she had before. But Barclays has confirmed that Miss Cs new account is the same type of 
account she had before  a standard Barclays bank account. And I can see this is how the 
account is described on both her statements before and after the switch so Im satisfied this 
is the case.  
The confusion lies around the fact Miss C was a premier customer and eligible for a premier 
account but didnt hold a premier account. In order to upgrade to a premier account she 
needed to get in contact with her relationship manager. Indeed, Miss C has acknowledged 
she had received correspondence about this.  Barclays has also confirmed Miss C has never 
been charged a fee for the new account. So this being the case, as Miss C has the same 
account as she had before and isnt being charged for it I dont think there is anything more 
Barclays needs to do. Miss C should now let Barclays know if she wants to accept the offer 
of £150 compensation.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided Barclays Bank UK PLCs offer of £150 
compensation is a fair way to settle Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman