DRN-2717954
The complaint
Mr K complains that The Share Centre Limited (Share Centre) sold shares in his Individual 
Savings Account (ISA) without his consent, to cover account fees.
What happened
In April 2020 Share Centre emailed Mr K to provide his account valuation and explain it was 
updating its terms of business. The email said that from 6 July 2020 Share Centre would 
have the right to sell any investments to pay overdue fees if Mr K didnt hold enough funds in 
his account to pay them. It recommended that Mr K made sure his account held enough 
cash to avoid this. 
In July 2020 Share Centre emailed Mr K another account valuation which listed fees due and 
explained that fees older than 30 days would be recovered by the sale of investments if cash 
wasnt available.
In August 2020 Share Centre sold nine of Mr Ks shares to cover overdue fees and charged 
£7.50 for making the necessary trade. Mr K was unhappy as he said it was the first hed 
been aware that Share Centre could sell his shares to pay for fees, so he complained. He 
asked Share Centre to repurchase the nine shares, refund its trading fee and take the fees 
owed from his debit card as it had done in previous years. Share Centre felt it had provided 
Mr K with enough warning of the changes and had made the trade in line with its updated 
terms of business.
Mr K referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator thought Share Centre had acted 
fairly and provided enough warning about the changes to its terms of business. Mr K 
accepted Share Centre had correctly followed its own terms. But still felt it hadnt done 
enough to notify him of the changes. He said the email looked the same as any other hed 
received from Share Centre, and its importance shouldve been made clearer. He felt that it 
shouldve highlighted the change of terms in the subject line of the email. Mr K asked for an 
ombudsman to consider the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from the available statements, tariffs and transaction history that Mr K owed fees 
and there was an insufficient balance to cover them. So, Im satisfied Share Centre acted 
fairly and within its terms of business when it sold the shares needed to cover the fees. Mr K 
also accepts Share Centre were acting within its updated terms of business when it made 
the trade. The key dispute is whether Share Centre did enough to effectively communicate 
the update to its terms.
Ive considered whether Share Centre did enough to make Mr K aware of the changes to its 
terms of business and provided a prominent enough warning that shares could be sold to 
cover any fees due. I think that it did enough and Ill explain why.
Mr K feels strongly that Share Centres message shouldve accounted for the reality of 
receiving emails on different screen sizes and email clients. Hes demonstrated the issue he 
experienced - the screenshot hes provided shows that very little of an emails content is 
available to view on his screen before scrolling further down on his device. Hes also 
explained that the email headings similarity with previously received messages and the lack 
of an importance marker meant he chose not to read the message in full.
Ive thought about these points carefully and appreciate how they contributed to Mr K not 
reading the email in full. But I dont think it would be fair or realistic to expect Share Centre to 
account for how its emails display on every screen and device. There must ultimately be 
some responsibility on the recipients part to read the information they receive. 
If Mr K was sent the same update in the post, Id expect Share Centre to have ensured the 
full content of the letter was clear if opened and read. I think Share Centres responsibility 
when providing Mr K with the update was to ensure the email, if read in full, provided the 
relevant information he required in a clear manner.
The template email Ive seen shows that all the key information was clearly outlined in the 
body of the email. It included a summary of the key changes under the heading Updated 
terms of business. The email also highlighted the fact that Mr K had to ensure there was 
always enough in his account and that shares would be sold to cover overdue fees if 
necessary. 
I dont believe it would be fair to say Share Centre needed to do more to notify Mr K when 
the content of its email was clear, unambiguous and provided him with plenty of time to plan 
for the changes. Mr K did have to scroll down on his device to see this information, but Id 
consider this part of managing his account.
Mr K has also explained the circumstances he was experiencing around the time he 
received the email, but I dont think the circumstances put any more responsibility on Share 
Centre to ensure hed read the information it sent him.
Share Centre provided Mr K with another account summary and valuation in July, it said:
 Please note: We will attempt to recover any outstanding fees that are £10 or 
more or older than 30 days. We reserve the right to move any available cash 
between the accounts you hold with us and, should you not have any available 
cash, we will sell some of your investment(s) to recuperate the fees. If we are 
required to sell investments, we will sell from your largest holding by value and 
this will incur a commission charge as per our tariff.
This was the second email Mr K received which notified him of the potential for his shares to 
be sold before they were sold in August 2020. Im satisfied this message was also clear and 
unambiguous.
Its unfortunate Mr Ks shares had to be sold to cover the fees due, but I dont think Share 
Centre has treated Mr K unfairly in the circumstances. Share Centre took adequate steps to 
tell Mr K how its terms had changed, and that it would sell shares if needed. It also provided 
Mr K with a reasonable amount of notice before the change was made. It is up to Mr K to 
ensure that he reads the emails he is sent to effectively manage his account. So I dont think 
Share Centre has acted unfairly in applying its up to date terms to Mr Ks account and selling 
his shares to cover his overdue fees and trading fee.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman