DRN-3891603
The complaint
Mr C complains that Apollo Pension and Investment Advisers (Apollo) recommended he 
invest into a number of complex, non-standard investments within his Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP). He subsequently invested further monies into a similar scheme outside his 
SIPP resulting in him losing all of his money. Mr C believes the advice was unsuitable and 
would like to be put back in the same position as if the investments had not taken place.
Mr C is being represented by a third party, but for ease, Ill refer to all representations as 
being made by Mr C.
What happened
In November 2012, Apollo advised Mr C to move his SIPP and Group Personal Pension to a 
Rowanmoor SIPP. The Adviser believed it would give Mr C the opportunity to invest in 
alternative investments that were not available in his existing plans. 
In 2013 and 2014, following advice from an unregulated firm, New Alternative Investments 
Ltd (NAI Ltd), Mr C invested into three unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS) 
opportunities, Lomaxfind Ltd, Whitefind Ltd and Dolphin Loan Notes. He invested £30,000, 
£20,000 and £133,000 respectively into each. Whilst he made a profit on the Dolphin Loan 
notes of £124,757, he lost all his funds on the other two, resulting in a net profit of £74,754.
Mr C subsequently signed an application form to invest a further £300,000 into the Dolphin 
scheme in January 2019, however, this was done so outside of his SIPP which at this point, 
had ceased accepting UCIS investments.
In January 2020, there was a suggestion Dolphin were struggling financially and were 
looking to restructure their debts. In October 2020, Dolphin entered preliminary bankruptcy 
proceedings. Its understood from the latest published FCA commentary on the issue, 
investors are unlikely to get back all their original investments; Mr Cs representatives have 
stated they envisage a total loss of his capital.
Mr C complained to Apollo in August 2020. He told them, in summary, the original advice to 
transfer to the SIPP was motivated by the ultimate aim of investing in a UCIS. He felt that 
Apollo misrepresented the UCIS investments as being safe and secure. He went on to state 
that as an unsophisticated investor, he was unaware of the potential for total loss, and the 
advice was unsuitable for someone of his investment background.
Apollo initially rejected the complaint. They said:
As part of Mr Cs risk appetite, he diversified part of his investments into non-regulated 
plans. 
Mr C was fully aware of the high-risk nature of the investments. He signed 
documentation to confirm he understood the risks associated with the investments.
They didnt believe it was their fault the various UCIS investments had failed. They 
provided an explanation into each beforehand and stated they couldnt be held 
accountable for the deliberate failings of others.
It was Mr Cs own decision to invest in January 2019 into the Dolphin scheme. Apollo 
said by this point Mr C was experienced and met the Regulators High Net Worth (HNW) 
requirements.
Apollo have said Mr C invested directly via NAI Ltd, a non-regulated business and not 
themselves. He was given ample time to consider the investment.
Mr C was unhappy with Apollos response. He complained to this service setting out the 
same concerns. 
The complaint was then considered by one of our investigators. He concluded that Apollo 
had not treated Mr C fairly. He also said, in summary:
Whilst Apollo may claim the investments into the SIPP were the responsibility of NAI Ltd, 
the Regulators view is very different. That is to say, its down to Apollo to make certain 
the investments were suitable.
As the initial three investments had ultimately resulted in a profit, he didnt believe any 
redress was due in respect of that transaction.
However, he felt the later £300,000 transaction was driven by Apollo and as such, they 
should compensate him for that loss.
Apollo however, disagreed with our investigators findings. In summary, they said the 
investigator had not fully understood the chain of events that took place. They also said the 
following:
Any investor, especially one investing for a second time, could not fail to understand the 
risk involved, especially where the client meets the high net worth threshold. Apollo felt 
Mr C understood fully what he was getting in to and it wasnt right to classify him as an 
unsophisticated investor, particularly where hed invested in the same product over the 
last 5 years. Apollo felt that was adequate time for Mr C to become familiar with the 
Dolphin plan.
The subsequent investment Mr C made into the Dolphin investment was done so without 
any advice from Apollo. Apollo also explained that it was made outside of Mr Cs SIPP 
and funded from savings. They didnt think they should he held accountable for that 
transaction.
Apollo said that having read the investigators initial view around the original non-
standard investments within the SIPP and the losses netting themselves off, they felt 
there was little point in debating this further.
Our investigator was not persuaded to change his view as Apollo did not present any new 
arguments hed not already considered or responded to already.
Apollo asked the investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
After carefully considering the complaint, I issued a provisional decision explaining that I 
planned to uphold Mr Cs complaint. My decision was broadly along similar lines to the initial view provided by the investigator although I added wider perspective and revised the 
redress. 
My provisional decision
I think theres two important elements at the heart of this complaint, whether it was right for 
Apollo to invest Mr Cs SIPP fund into the non-standard investments originally and, whether 
they should be held accountable for his subsequent, follow-up investment into the Dolphin 
product, that was made outside his SIPP, which then became illiquid.
Investments in 2013
Apollo will be aware that in June 2013 the FCA published an alert notifying firms it was to 
ban the promotion of UCIS to the vast majority of retail investors in the UK. The alert stated 
that the promotion of these riskier and complex fund structures would generally be restricted 
to sophisticated investors and high net worth individuals, for whom those products were 
more likely to be suitable. 
And on 28 April 2014, the FCA published another alert which stated it believed: 
pension transfers or switches to SIPPs intended to hold non-mainstream propositions are 
unlikely to be suitable options for the vast majority of retail customers. Firms operating in this 
market need to be particularly careful to ensure their advice is suitable. 
In the cases we have seen, customers existing arrangements were invariably traditional 
pension plans invested in mainstream funds or final salary schemes, with the customer 
generally having no experience of non-mainstream propositions and many having very 
limited experience of standard investments. 
The new arrangements firms proposed were to transfer or switch the customers pension 
funds to a SIPP, with a view to investment in non-mainstream propositions, which were 
typically unregulated, high risk and highly illiquid investments. Some examples of these 
investments are overseas property developments, store pods and forestry. Such transfers or 
switches are unlikely to be suitable for the vast majority of retail customers.
This I believe, made the Regulators view very clear that UCIS recommendations would only 
be appropriate for a select few individuals.
Apollo have said whilst they managed the SIPP for Mr C, the non-regulated investments 
were facilitated by NAI Ltd, a firm not authorised or regulated by the FCA. Both Apollo and 
NAI Ltd are owned by the same individual.
Whilst I dont intend to focus too much on the original pension transfer advice and initial 
UCIS investments as Apollo have stated theres little point in debating this further, I think its 
important to make a number of observations that are of particular relevance to the complaint.
The Regulator has been clear that where a pension transfer is being undertaken, it cant be 
done in isolation from the underlying investments. Theyve stated Advisers must fully satisfy 
themselves any investments meet the customers stated aims and objectives. Thats even 
when the investments are being arranged by someone else, as is the case in this instance, 
via NAI Ltd. Having read the original suitability letter from November 2012, the primary 
justification for moving from Mr Cs existing SIPP with AJ Bell to Rowanmoor, was to allow 
Mr C to invest in non-stock market investments. Investments into the three UCISs then 
shortly followed thereafter.Apollo was required to know its client and give suitable advice. It was also under a duty to 
act in the best interests of Mr C. The Apollo adviser recommending the SIPP was also the 
agent for NAI Ltd. I think the adviser must have known that the investment was to be made 
in the three UCIS plans. The Financial Services Authority (FSA) issued an alert in January 
2013 and said: "It should be particularly clear to financial advisers that, where a customer 
seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing a wider investment strategy, the advice 
on the pension transfer must take account of the overall investment strategy the customer is 
contemplating. Although this alert was issued after the advice was given to Mr C, I think it 
represents the FSAs view of how the adviser should have assessed the suitability of any 
advice given. I dont think the adviser could give suitable advice to recommend a SIPP 
without considering the investments that would be made into it. In this case I think the 
adviser was aware that the recommendation he made whilst working for Apollo would allow 
Mr C to invest in the three UCIS plans. The three UCIS products were high risk unregulated 
funds. 
The funds are not subject to regulation in the same way as more mainstream funds would 
be. These types of funds are typically only suitable for very experienced and sophisticated 
consumers. Ive seen nothing to persuade me that Mr C should have been categorised as 
sophisticated. Despite issuing a suitability letter recommending the SIPP transfer, Apollo 
never actually confirmed Mr Cs attitude to risk or capacity for loss within it.
In their communications with this service, Apollo have made much emphasis of Mr Cs 
wealth and experience in demonstrating the suitability of the underlying investments.
Apollo have said that any investor, especially one investing for a second time, could not fail 
to understand the risk involved, especially where the client meets the high net worth 
threshold. At this point, its worth noting that just because a consumer meets the Regulators 
definition of a high net worth client, it doesnt remove the advisers obligation to still 
demonstrate what theyre arranging is suitable and meets their stated needs. It also doesnt 
by default enable them to be categorised as experienced. 
I think our investigator was correct in considering the three UCIS investments as one 
transaction when determining if Mr C had lost out on the initial SIPP investments. 
Calculations show that whilst Mr C lost his all of his investment on two of the UCIS 
investments, the third resulted in an overall net profit. Im therefore satisfied in respect of that 
part of the complaint, hes not suffered a financial detriment. 
Dolphin investment in 2019
Turning to the subsequent Dolphin investment funded from savings that was made outside 
the SIPP in January 2019; I need to consider whether Mr received advice, and if so, which 
firm was responsible for that advice. And whether Mr C ought to have been aware there 
were high risks linked to this nature of investment. This last point is particularly relevant 
given the original funds he invested in, Lomaxfind Ltd and Whitefind Ltd, lost all of their 
value. I suspect Mr C may have in part, been blinded by those risks given he doubled his 
original investment in Dolphin and that was more than likely, one of the motivators for him 
wishing to invest further. 
Apollo have said that as Mr C was investing for a second time into a UCIS, he could not fail 
to understand the risk involved, especially as hed invested in the same product over the last 
5 years. Apollo felt that was adequate time for Mr C to become familiar with the Dolphin plan. 
However, Im not wholly convinced its as simple as that and Ill explain why.
Whilst theres no doubt Mr C was provided with generic documentation that highlighted the 
risks of the Dolphin investment, its important to acknowledge its incumbent on consumers 
to read that literature so theyre clear about what theyre entering in to. However, its also important to acknowledge wider information that may have helped shape the consumers 
decision making.
On 13 January 2019, Apollo sent Mr C an email about Dolphin. It states, (text in bold is my 
emphasis):
I met with Dolphin on Friday as part of my regular meetings to keep in touch and updated as 
to how the group is performing. When we lost spoke, I was under the impression that the 
current rates for new business would only be available to the end of December. They would 
be reduced to as low as 7%. This is a reflection that they are in a strong financial 
position and do not need to pay high rates to attract investment business.
So, what we have is a short window of literally buy while stock last. The current rates 
are 11% pa for two year investments and 12% per annum for five year investments. It is very 
hard to place Dolphin investments with SIPP firms now; there is only one provider who 
accepts them as many have changed their criteria. We do place most investments now 
directly outside of a pension. The process is very simple and easy. Your original loan 
note paid an average of 13.8% per annum but back then they had no track record and were 
new to the UK. Now they are very sound and established.
When we spoke last, you did mention you were very liquid and was considering some kind 
of foreign exchange transaction. I do not know if you proceeded with this or held back for a 
while. How, I would suggest that an investment outside of a SIPP would be a good idea 
given that you are familiar with Dolphin and the current rates are still highly attractive. 
There are fees or charges to pay and the return is clean, ie no cost. Given that the markets 
seem to be entering a volatile bear market, the high proven return Dolphin pays is 
attractive and has no volatility at all. As I mentioned, they can issue loan notes in Euros 
and USD and your funds will be converted on the day of receipt. You could keep your funds 
in your chosen currency upon maturity and switch back to sterling when it suited you.
If you were minded to proceed with an investment, all that needs to be completed is a 
signed reservation form (expression of interest) and for this to be received by 31st January. 
The actual funds do not need to be sent until the end of March at the latest. 
Please let me know if you might wish to consider this, or you wish to discuss this in a little 
more detail. 
Its my view that by stating Dolphin are in a strong financial position, very sound and 
established and have no volatility, significantly dilutes the high-risk nature of the investment. 
I think despite having lost all his money in Lomaxfind Ltd and Whitefind Ltd, Mr C had no 
reason to believe having received such a warranty from Apollo, that his supplementary 
Dolphin investment would be nothing but a repeat of its original success. Mr Cs 
representatives have said its their understanding Dolphin had defaulted on a number of their 
debts even before his monies were eventually invested so, the financial warranties that 
Apollo provided were inaccurate and misleading.
Allied to this, Apollo created urgency in the need to act now and invest, by using the term 
buy whilst stocks last. Such a term creates a fear of missing out mentality and typically 
prompts consumers to make decisions faster without having due regard to all the necessary 
risks beforehand. The email provides no balance, downplays risk, and overstates potential 
returns. It doesnt specifically explain that Mr C could lose all of his money. Im of the view 
its potentially misleading in nature.
Apollo have stated they act in a duel capacity for Mr C, both as investment and pension 
advisers (through Apollo) and, as a facilitator/ introducer of unregulated investment business opportunities through NAI Ltd. Both Apollo and NAI Ltd are owned by the same individual. 
Apollo have explained it was NAI Ltd who were responsible for helping Mr C facilitate the 
subsequent Dolphin transaction rather than themselves. In suggesting NAI Ltd are 
responsible for the transaction, ultimately means this service does not have the jurisdiction 
to issue a decision on that part of Mr Cs complaint.
However, I fail to be convinced that NAI Ltd were responsible for the subsequent Dolphin 
investment. The 13 January 2019 email was sent from the mailbox of Apollo rather than NAI 
Ltd. There is evidence on the file I have seen that shows when NAI Ltd have previously 
communicated with Mr C, they did so on their own headed paper. In addition, I have seen 
emails to different sources from an NAI Ltd email address. Whilst I think its important to 
acknowledge the paperwork that was sent to Dolphin makes no reference to Apollo, Im of 
the view its Apollo that have driven the recommendation to invest in Dolphin.
Clearly where the same individual runs both businesses, it will always present a conflict of 
interest challenge but, sufficient controls must be in place to ensure that customers are clear 
whom theyre receiving direction from. In this instance, I think its reasonable for Mr C to 
conclude its Apollo. Had the guidance been coming from NAI Ltd, I would have expected to 
have seen that clearly communicated to the customer. And I note that subsequent emails 
setting out what was required of Mr C if he wanted to go ahead with the investment were 
also sent from an Apollo email address with an Apollo footer. 
At this point, I think its also important to be clear about the Regulators position on the 
difference between providing information, and going beyond that stage at which point, it 
becomes advice. 
The FCA set out in its Perimeter Guidance manual (PERG) some guidance as to what could 
amount to advice. I think the following provisions are relevant: 
PERG 8.2.1(G) 
In the FCAs view, advice requires an element of opinion on the part of the adviser. 
In effect it is a recommendation as to a course of action. Information, on the other 
hand, involves statements of facts or figures.
PERG 8.28.2(G) 
(1)  In general terms, simply giving information without making any comment or 
value judgment on its relevance to decisions which an investor may make is not 
advice. 
(2) The provision of purely factual information does not become regulated advice 
merely because it feeds into the customers own decision-making process and is 
taken into account by them. 
(3) Regulated advice includes any communication with the customer which, in the 
particular context in which it is given, goes beyond the mere provision of information 
and is objectively likely to influence the customers decision whether or not to buy or 
sell. 
(4)  A key to the giving of advice is that the information: 
(a) is either accompanied by comment or value judgment on the relevance of 
that information to the customers investment decision; or (b) is itself the product of a process of selection involving a value judgment so 
that the information will tend to influence the decision.
PERG 8.28.5(G) 
A key question is whether an impartial observer, having due regard to the regulatory 
regime and guidance, context, timing and what passed between the parties, would 
conclude that what the adviser says could reasonably have been understood by the 
customer as being advice. 
PERG 8.28.6(G) 
An explicit recommendation to buy or sell is likely to be advice. However something 
falling short of an explicit recommendation can be advice too. Any significant element 
of evaluation, value judgment or persuasion is likely to mean that advice is being 
given. 
In my view the guidance makes clear that there doesnt need to be a specific 
recommendation and that advice can be given without saying or implying categorically that 
its advice and that the client should invest. 
The statements within the email: 
I would suggest that an investment outside of a SIPP would be a good idea given that you 
are familiar with Dolphin and the current rates are still highly attractive.
We do place most investments now directly outside of a pension. The process is very simple 
and easy.
Combined with the fact theyve then proposed an alternative way of investing, as its become 
challenging to invest in a UCIS within a SIPP, go beyond the mere provision of information 
and in my view, meet the FCAs threshold of giving advice. The message provides a value 
judgment on the Dolphin investment and to conclude, Im not persuaded by Apollos 
argument that NAI Ltd are responsible for that transaction. Mr C has told this service, the 
email influenced his decision to proceed. In summary, I can well understand how that 
communication led him to take the action he did by investing in Dolphin again.
In their correspondence with the investigator, Apollo referred to a different complaint that had 
been submitted to this service that was of a similar nature to that of Mr Cs case. In that 
complaint, the investigator that considered the case didnt think Apollo was involved in 
arranging the investment. She did not think they had done anything more than forward 
information about Dolphin on to that customer. Firstly, I think its important to highlight here 
that this complaint was resolved following an investigators opinion being issued; not a final 
decision as Apollo has suggested. And crucially, when this service looks at a complaint, 
each case is considered on its own merits. 
In the case of Mr C, Im satisfied Apollo went beyond the mere provision of information in 
that email communication with him. 
Having decided that Apollos adviser gave advice, under the Regulators COBS rules, Apollo 
had a duty to demonstrate the investment was suitable for Mr C which, Im not satisfied they 
did.
Ive carefully considered Mr Cs experience and appetite for these types of investments, one 
of which had gone well for him in the past. Im not sure I agree with Mr Cs submissions to this service that hes an inexperienced investor. I cant say with any certainty he had the 
capacity to take risks at the level he did because Apollo didnt complete a fact-find in 2019. 
However, it seems to me like he was interested in taking higher risks for higher reward. Hed 
previously invested in two UCIS investments which had failed in the past along with his 
original investment in Dolphin that had gone well, so, he wasnt green when it came to 
investments of this nature. However, I should balance that by recognising the original 
pension transfer advice was provided more than six years earlier. And, in the SR they sent to 
Mr C at the time, the risks of investing in unregulated investments werent set out so, I cant 
even be certain he was ever told about the original risks. Im inclined to believe he wasnt as 
that formed the basis of his complaint about the pension switch. In addition, as Ive already 
mentioned, in their note to him in January 2019, Apollo did not cover any of the risks of this 
new investment. Apollo went as far to say, .the high proven return Dolphin pays is 
attractive and has no volatility at all. This to me, makes the Dolphin investment sound like a 
low to no-risk option.
Im unclear of how the Dolphin investment tied in with his wider wealth or, whether Mr C 
even qualified as High Net Worth Investor, thats despite the fact a HNW form was 
completed. Whilst I cant say conclusively, I have to weigh up all the factors in this case and 
Im of the view, its more likely than not, he wouldnt have invested had Apollo not put the 
idea forward to him and provided him with all the facts. I say that because within the email 
Apollo sent him in January 2019, it was clear at the time, Mr C was considering investments 
elsewhere, in foreign currency, it was Apollo that promoted the concept of investing in 
Dolphin. He wasnt presented with all the key information necessary to make a balanced 
judgement on whether the investment was right for him. Based on the information I have, I 
dont believe the subsequent Dolphin investment was suitable for Mr C.
Responses to my provisional decision
After reviewing my provisional decision, Mr C contacted this service to confirm he accepted 
the decision and had no further comment to make.
Apollo replied and stated they didnt agree with my provisional decision. They said, in 
summary:
It wasnt until January 2014 that the FCA introduced the category of non-mainstream 
pooled investments. Apollo said there is no definition of what a sophisticated investor is 
and therefore, it has little true meaning and provides no guidance to anyone. Apollo 
repeated their point that Mr C was not a first-time investor into Dolphin and therefore 
shouldve had an appreciation of the risks involved.
Apollo questioned why Mr C chose to invest £300,000 as they say, no-one put a gun to 
his head. They said given he was interested in investing in foreign currency, he was an 
experienced, sophisticated investor.
Apollo said the two loan notes that originally failed, had done so due to a lack of ethics 
by the promoters and operators of the schemes.
They went on to say, the email system of NAI Ltd wasnt working properly at the time Mr 
C took out the subsequent Dolphin investment, so messages were sent from the Apollo 
email system. They didnt agree their messages provided any warranty to Mr C. Apollo 
pointed to the terms that Mr C signed in 2013 along with the conflicts of interest letter he 
was provided with.
Apollo have said that if redress is payable to Mr C in respect of the subsequent 2019 
investment, the profit he made on earlier investments should offset any loss liability on the later £300,000 investment.
They went on to say, they didnt feel the provisional decision took enough account of the 
documentation showing Mr Cs long term relationship with NAI Ltd and it wasnt 
themselves who put the idea to Mr C of investing, but rather the other way around. They 
said Apollo had only ever acted for Mr C in a retirement advice setting.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing this, Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance 
and standards; codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the relevant time. 
Ive thought carefully about the further points Apollo made in response to my provisional 
decision and Ive also looked closely at the paperwork they sent through. But Im of the view 
that the fair and reasonable outcome is that the complaint should be upheld so I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings. Ill explain why.
Before I do, I should explain that I have summarised this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. I am not going to respond to every single point 
made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed 
on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I appreciate Apollo disagrees with the 2013 investments being classed as UCIS and I note 
what theyve said about why the two loan notes failed. But I dont intend to comment further 
on these points as Ive determined that Mr C hasnt suffered a financial loss as a result of the 
advice provided in 2013. Instead Ive focused on the main arguments Apollo have raised in 
response to my provisional findings regarding the investment in 2019. 
Apollo say no authority has ever established what the definition of an unsophisticated 
investor is. However, this is a term Mr C has used to describe himself; it isnt a regulatory 
term. The FCA does provide a definition of a certified sophisticated investor and a self-
certified sophisticated investor, in COBS 4.12.7 and 4.12.8. I dont intend to set these 
definitions out in full here as they can be found on the FCA website but Im satisfied that Mr 
C didnt complete the necessary certificates and so cant be considered a Sophisticated 
Investor. As mentioned in my provisional findings, Mr C completed a High Net Worth 
Investor form. However, given the lack of information obtained in 2019 regarding Mr Cs 
circumstances, I remain unsure as to whether he actually qualified as a High Net Worth 
Investor. But even if he did, I dont think that means the Dolphin Investment was suitable for 
him. 
Mr C signed an application form to invest a further £300,000 into the Dolphin scheme in 
January 2019; that was after the guidance from the FCA around UCIS investments in 2014 
was issued. However, as Ive already said in my provisional decision, just because a 
consumer may meet a particular regulatory definition, it doesnt by default mean a product is 
suitable for them. Thats up to the adviser to ensure it meets the customers current and 
ongoing needs.In July 2010 the FCA issued guidance about unregulated investments in a Good and Poor 
Practice report. This contained examples of good practice in relation to unregulated 
investments, for example where a firm had robust controls in place and limited client 
exposure to 3% to 5% of their portfolios, where those clients had been assessed as being 
suitable for unregulated investments. An example of bad practice given by the FCA was 
where up to 100% of a clients holdings were invested in a single UCIS. It therefore follows 
that I think it shouldve been clear to Apollo in 2019, the regulators view on having such a 
large concentration of a customers monies in a limited number of UCIS funds.
Apollo have questioned why Mr C chose to invest £300,000. They said given he was 
interested in investing in foreign currency, he was an experienced, sophisticated investor. It 
seems to me theres a big difference investing in foreign currency which, whilst its exposed 
to exchange rate risks is in effect, deposit based and easier to understand than an 
unregulated collective investment scheme. Mr C went to Apollo to take advice. For the 
reasons Ive already explained in my provisional decision, its my view theyre responsible for 
the transactions that followed. The correspondence Ive referred to in my provisional findings 
makes it clear they promoted the subsequent UCIS investment to him. Im not convinced he 
wouldve gone ahead with the UCIS investment had Apollo not promoted it to him. 
Apollo didnt agree their messages in 2019 provided any warranty to Mr C. And it pointed to 
the terms that Mr C signed in 2013 along with the conflicts of interest letter he was provided 
with. Whilst I accept Mr C was subsequently sent further correspondence in 2019 about the 
Dolphin investment, I think given the conflicts of interest warnings he received were 6 years 
earlier, thats unlikely to have been very clear to him at the time of the subsequent 
transaction. But, as Ive already explained, I think Apollos email from January 2019 to Mr C 
was misleading and diluted the risks he was taking on anyway. Apollo has also said that this 
email was only sent from Apollo because NAI Ltds email system was down at that time. 
However, there was nothing in the email to explain this and the email wasnt just sent using 
the Apollo email address, it also included the full signature for Apollo, including its regulatory 
details.  So Im satisfied that it was Apollo that provided the recommendation to invest in 
2019.
Apollo didnt feel the provisional decision took enough account of the documentation 
showing Mr Cs long-term relationship with NAI Ltd. They said it wasnt themselves who 
promoted the idea to Mr C of investing, but rather the other way around. They said Apollo 
had only ever acted for Mr C in a retirement advice setting. Im still not convinced by Apollos 
contention that it was Mr C that drove the subsequent Dolphin investment. As Ive already 
explained, their email from January 2019 suggests it was themselves who promoted the 
investment. Also, whilst their paperwork from November 2012 shows separate investment 
advice would follow the original pension switch recommendation, theres no doubt Apollo are 
responsible for the UCIS investments that Mr C found himself in in 2013. Thats because the 
regulator has long held the view that when completing pension switch business, advisers are 
ultimately responsible for the suitability of the investments that follow. The regulator 
confirmed their position in January 2013, that was the same time the original UCIS 
investments were made. I have also seen nothing new to persuade me that Apollo werent 
responsible for the subsequent Dolphin investment in 2019.
Apollo said that if redress is payable to Mr C in respect of the subsequent 2019 investment, 
the profit he made on earlier investments should offset any loss liability on the later £300,000 
investment. The £74,754 profit Mr C made from the original three UCIS investments of 2013 
and 2014 came about as a result of the pension advice he was provided. I decided to treat 
those three transactions as one when calculating the redress because they all related to 
retirement planning advice and were undertaken broadly at the same time. It therefore 
followed as he had made a profit, no redress was required in respect of those three pension 
UCIS investments. However, the subsequent £300,000 in 2019 was transacted outside of his pension and the monies invested six years later so, Im not persuaded to treat the later 
loss redress calculation as a single transaction. Also, the profit Mr C made on the maturing 
Investec structured product came about from an investment he originally made in 2009. I 
dont think its reasonable to attribute the losses of investment made 10 years later to the 
profits of an entirely unlinked investment a decade earlier. 
Ive considered the additional points that Apollo have raised. As there is no new information 
to consider it follows that I have reached the same conclusions for the same reasons as I did 
in my provisional decision, the details of which I have set out above and I therefore require 
Apollo Pension and Investment Advisers to put things right in the manner Ive set out below.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
C as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I think Mr C would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he 
would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mr C's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should Apollo do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, Apollo must:
Compare the performance of Mr C's 2019 investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Apollo should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Dolphin Still exists 
but illiquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.If at the end date the portfolio is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr C agrees to Apollo taking 
ownership of the Investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Apollo to take 
ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Mr C that he repays to Apollo any 
amount he may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr C wanted Income with some growth and was willing to accept some investment 
risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr C's circumstances and risk attitude.
My decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to 
pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend that 
Apollo Pension and Investment Advisers pays the balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Apollo Pension and Investment 
Advisers should pay the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of 
£160,000 plus any interest set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation 
exceeds £160,000, I recommend that Apollo Pension and Investment Advisers pays Mr C 
the balance plus any interest on that amount as set out above.
If Apollo Pension and Investment Advisers does not pay the full fair compensation, then 
any portfolio currently illiquid should be retained by Mr C. This is until any future benefit that 
he may receive from the portfolio together with the compensation paid by Apollo Pension 
and Investment Advisers (excluding any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as 
set out above.
Apollo Pension and Investment Advisers may request an undertaking from Mr C that either 
he repays to Apollo Pension and Investment Advisers any amount Mr C may receive from 
the portfolio thereafter or if possible, transfers the portfolio at that point.My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Apollo Pension and Investment Advisers should 
pay the amount calculated as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman