DRN-3710179
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money hes lost to a scam.
Whats happened?
Mr B has fallen victim to a purchase scam. He arranged to rent a car from a company he 
found on a popular social media platform. Ill refer to the company as BCH throughout this 
decision.
Mr B has said that hed been watching BCHs social media page for a few weeks before 
deciding to rent from it. The page was very active - it had thousands of followers and lots of 
customer reviews, and pictures of available vehicles were uploaded regularly. An internet 
search showed that BCH was listed on Companies House, with a registered address that 
matched the one on its social media page. Mr B thought that everything looked legitimate, so 
he spoke to one of BCHs employees at some length before deciding to go ahead with a 
rental. He sent a picture of his driving licence to the employee and transferred an upfront 
deposit of £625 to an account in the employees name; acting quickly to obtain a rental offer 
that was expiring imminently. BCHs employee said they would deliver the car to Mr Bs 
address on the first day of the rental period, and Mr B would be provided with an invoice and 
asked to sign the relevant documentation at that stage. But the car was not delivered as 
promised and Mr B has heard nothing further from BCH.
Monzo approached the receiving bank shortly after Mr B reported the scam to it, but no 
funds have been recovered. And the bank has declined to reimburse Mr B under the Lending 
Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) because its said that he 
didnt take enough steps to check who he was paying and what for.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator found that Monzo should have reimbursed Mr B under the provisions of the 
CRM Code. Monzo didnt agree, so Mr Bs complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo isnt yet a signatory of the CRM Code, but its allowed us to apply the Codes 
principles to complaints we consider against it which meet the relevant criteria.
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr B has fallen victim to, in all but a 
limited number of circumstances. Monzo has argued that one of the exceptions applies in 
this case. It says that Mr B made the payment without a reasonable basis for belief that the 
payee was the person he was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or 
services and/or the business or person he was transacting with was legitimate.
Monzo doesnt appear to be relying on an argument that Mr B ignored an effective warning 
that it gave during the payment journey. So, I wont address this topic in any detail. But, for 
the sake of completeness, I will say that Ive looked at the warning Monzo says Mr B was 
given and I dont think it was effective  although I wouldnt expect the bank to have given a 
warning in this case due to the nature and value of the payment.
In thinking about whether Mr B had a reasonable basis for belief, Ive considered what steps 
he took to reassure himself about the legitimacy of the transaction, and whether it was 
reasonable for him to proceed with the payment.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr B had a reasonable basis for belief on this occasion. I say this 
because:
Mr B has said that, at the time of making the payment, he was aware that legitimate 
businesses sell goods and services over social medial platforms, and he knew of 
people that had rented a car from a business theyd found via social media (albeit not 
from BCH). So, he was understandably comfortable with shopping in this way. 
Mr Bs explained that hed been watching BCHs social media page for a few weeks 
before deciding to rent from it, and it was very active - it had thousands of followers 
and lots of customer reviews, and pictures of available vehicles were uploaded 
regularly. Hes also said that an internet search showed him that BCH was listed on 
Companies House, with a registered address that matched the one on its social 
media page. So, I dont consider that he transacted with BCH without any care, and I 
think a reasonable person wouldve been reassured by what Mr B saw. 
Several messages were sent between Mr B and BCH before Mr B made the 
payment. Ive looked at the messages and I dont think theres anything obviously 
suspicious about them.
BCH asked Mr B to provide it with a picture of his driving licence. I think this lends an 
air of legitimacy to the scam because providing a copy of a driving licence is not an 
unusual requirement for renting a vehicle.
Mr B says he was expecting to receive the relevant paperwork on the day the rental 
car was delivered to him, and BCH told him he would need to sign the appropriate 
agreements at that stage. So, he didnt question the lack of paperwork received prior 
to making the payment. In the circumstances, I think this is reasonable. 
Mr B sent the payment to a personal account. Hes said he didnt think anything of 
this because the account was held in the name of the BCH representative he was 
speaking to. Its not uncommon for small businesses to request payments to personal 
accounts, and there was a confirmation of payee match in this instance, so I dont 
think its unreasonable that Mr B wasnt suspicious.
Legitimate businesses often offer buy one get one free type offers, similar to the one 
Mr B thought he was purchasing, which significantly reduce the price of goods and 
services. Im not persuaded that this shouldve rung alarm bells for Mr B. 
Monzo has raised some valid points in defending this case  for example, the banks said 
that its possible for scammers to create social media pages impersonating legitimate 
businesses registered with Companies House and then buy or fake followers and reviews, 
and that BCHs social media page didnt carry a blue tick. But the question for me is 
whether it was reasonable for Mr B to believe, in all of the circumstances, that the payee was 
the person he was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services and/or the business or person he was transacting with was legitimate. And I think it was. I wouldnt 
expect Mr B, or any other person in similar circumstances, to see all the red flags that a 
bank, with its industry knowledge of fraud, might observe. Considering everything, Im 
satisfied that the scam was sophisticated, and I dont think its unreasonable that it went 
undetected by Mr B. 
To conclude, Im satisfied that Monzo should have reimbursed the money Mr B lost to this 
scam under the terms of the CRM Code. Im not persuaded that any of the permitted 
exceptions to reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct 
Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Reimburse Mr Bs loss within 28 days of receiving notification of his acceptance of 
my final decision; plus
Pay 8% simple interest per year from the date Mr B should have received a full 
refund under the CRM Code to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman