DRN-4413764
The complaint
Mr C has complained that BUPA Insurance Limited declined a claim he made under his 
employers group medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C claimed for rehabilitation benefit. BUPA declined that claim  it said that it wasnt 
eligible under the policy which excluded:
Treatment for or arising:
 directly or indirectly, from the deliberate, reckless (including where you have displayed a 
blatant disregard for your personal safety or acted in a manner inconsistent with medical 
advice), harmful and/or hazardous use of any substance including alcohol, drugs and/or 
medicines; and
 in any event, from the illegal use of any such substance
Our investigator didnt conclude that BUPA had done anything wrong. Mr C appealed. He felt 
that the exclusion clause was unclear, and its application was unfair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint and havent included some 
sensitive history. But I have carefully considered all the representations made including Mr 
Cs detailed response to our investigators view, for which Im grateful. 
Having done so, and although I recognise that Mr C will be very disappointed by my 
decision, I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the following reasons:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers mustnt turn down claims 
unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the law, the terms of the 
insurance contract and the available medical evidence, to decide whether I think 
BUPA declined Mr Cs claim fairly.
I have to take the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this complaint  
given that its relevant law. Ultimately, however, I have to decide this complaint based 
on whats fair and reasonable. So, if Mr C believes that there is a potential violation of 
the Equality Act by BUPA, and wants a determination on that issue, then hell need to 
go to Court. However, I can consider whether BUPA has acted in a fair and 
reasonable manner in the circumstances, and this is what Ive done. 
I havent disregarded the background that led to this addiction and the trauma that 
has followed it. Mr C says the denial of his claim has had a severe impact on his 
mental health and the treatment is necessary for his wellbeing. I accept this is so - it 
is not in dispute that Mr C requires treatment for his methamphetamine addiction. But 
BUPA isnt obliged to offer cover excluded by Mr Cs policy terms. Even if I were to 
accept that Mr Cs drug taking wasnt deliberate or reckless, Im satisfied that BUPA 
is able to show the treatment Mr C requires is excluded, not least because it arises 
from the harmful and/or hazardous use of drugs. Further it is not suggested that his 
addiction stems from drugs legally prescribed. 
Mr C says that ambiguous terms in insurance contracts should be interpreted against 
the party that drafted the term. I agree. But I dont find that there is any ambiguity in 
the exclusion quoted above. Nor do I accept that the exclusion is buried away. Mr 
Cs health plan is a necessarily long document given the breadth of cover it provides. 
Im satisfied that both the rehabilitation cover and the exclusion relevant here are 
clearly set out in plain English. 
Mr C feels that there is inconsistency in BUPAs application of the exclusion clause 
as it paid for Mr Cs initial consultation. I havent explored the reasons BUPA paid for 
that consultation, as it didnt form part of this complaint. But I dont find that the fact 
BUPA paid for an earlier consultation precluded it from concluding that the exclusion 
applied to subsequent treatment. 
In the circumstances I dont find that BUPA have treated Mr C unfairly, contrary to his 
policy terms or to law. Mr C says that the purpose of his policy is to provide 
assistance in times of need and in unforeseen circumstances. Indeed, it may do so 
but BUPA is not obliged to provide cover for treatment that falls outside that offered 
by his policy terms. Mr C would like BUPA to apologise to him, and I can see that in 
its final response BUPA expressed sympathy for providing disappointing news. But 
given that I dont find any error on BUPAs part, there is no basis for me to require it 
to take any action or apologise further.  
My final decision
Despite my natural sympathy for Mr Cs predicament, for the reasons given above I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman