DRN-1311473
 
complaint
Mrs P complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs P took out a store card in 1996. In 2001 she was sold a PPI policy which would have 
helped cover the payments on the card for up to a year at a time if Mrs P couldnt work due 
to an accident, sickness or redundancy. 
Mrs P says she was told if she didnt take the PPI shed have to immediately repay her entire 
balance on the card.
The adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. Mrs P disagrees, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Ps 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs P doesnt dispute agreeing to buy the PPI, but she says she was tricked or coerced 
into doing so. 
Mrs P had already had the store card for over four years when the PPI was added. It seems 
this happened during a phone call. Understandably, given over 19 years has passed since 
then there isnt a recording of this call. But from what this service has seen of the call scripts 
used to sell PPI around this time it looks like Mrs P would have been given a clear choice 
about taking the PPI.
Of course, I cant be sure that the sales person followed the script, but I think its more likely 
than not that they did. I cant safely say that AXA told Mrs P that shed have to immediately 
pay off her balance if she didnt take it. 
AXA didnt give Mrs P any personal advice about buying the PPI, so it didnt have to take 
reasonable steps to make sure it was right for her. But AXA was responsible for making sure 
Mrs P had all the information she needed to make an informed decision. Its possible that 
AXA didnt do this. 
But although its possible Mrs P didnt get all the information she ideally should have done, 
this doesnt mean I should automatically uphold her complaint. Instead, I need to consider whether she would have acted differently and not bought the policy if shed had all the 
information she should have done.
I dont think it would have made a difference. I say this because Mrs P was eligible for the 
policy and wasnt affected by any of the terms which might have made it more difficult for her 
to make a successful claim  such as those related to existing medical conditions or self-
employment. Mrs P says she had adequate provision from her own resources to meet her 
store card payments if she couldnt work. But I think Mrs P would at least have understood 
the basics of the PPI  that it would meet her repayments if she couldnt work  even if she 
didnt understand all the finer detail. So it was up to Mrs P to decide if her existing provision 
was all that she required. The cost of the policy was higher than many policies on sale 
around the same time, but it offered a commensurately higher benefit and could have paid 
off her entire balance within a few months. 
On balance, on the information available to me, I dont think Mrs P lost out as a result of 
anything AXA might have done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint, so it follows that AXA France IARD doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman