DRN-2053873
 
The complaint
Miss N is complaining about the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited handled a claim 
she made on her car insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2019 Miss N was involved in an incident in a supermarket car park where she 
says another driver hit and damaged her car. She contacted Admiral to discuss the claim. 
As she'd taken out a legal expenses policy with her policy and it considered her to not be 
at fault for the incident, Admiral referred the claim to a solicitor firm to deal with it. Miss N 
says she told Admiral and the solicitor firm that there was CCTV footage. And she says 
Admiral said it would get the CCTV footage.
Admiral also said it would send some claim forms for Miss N to fill out. Miss N says she 
filled these out a returned them to Admiral. She says she also highlighted on here that 
there was CCTV footage.
Miss N called Admiral in April 2019 to get an update and she was unhappy to learn that 
Admiral hadn't obtained the CCTV footage. She complained that this had meant she was 
unable to prove the third party had hit her car and she said she couldn't afford to pay her 
excess to get the damage done. She also complained Admiral increased her premium by 
£20 even though the incident wasn't her fault.
Admiral said it had listened to the telephone calls Miss N made when she first reported the 
incident and it said she didn't explain there was any CCTV footage. It said the first time 
she mentioned the CCTV footage was when she called in April 2019. It said it had spoken 
with the solicitor firm who confirmed they did receive correspondence from Miss N on
27 February 2019. But it said the supermarket had said it deletes CCTV footage after 30 
days - i.e. around 28 February. So it said Miss N only mentioned CCTV footage one day 
before it would have been deleted.
It also said its claims experience shows policyholders with non-fault claims are more likely 
to go on to make a fault claim in the future. So it said this is reflected in its calculation of 
the insurance premium.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint. And I said the following:
There are two issues for me to decide here: 
1. Did Admiral take reasonable steps to recover the CCTV footage; and 
2. Was it fair that it increased the annual premium as a result of the claim?
I shall consider each point separately.
Handling of the claim
Miss N says she told Admiral four time about the CCTV footage and is unhappy it didn't 
act upon this. I've listened to all the telephone calls she had with Admiral. She called 
Admiral on the day of the incident to inform it of what had happened and to look for 
assistance on getting her car repaired. But I haven't seen anything to show that she told 
Admiral that there was CCTV footage in either of these calls. It seems to me the first time 
she told Admiral about the CCTV footage was when she called in April 2019. So I can't 
say Admiral is at fault for not looking to get the footage.
I note she says she told the solicitors about the CCTV footage, but Admiral isn't 
responsible for the actions of the solicitor firm it appointed. If Miss N is unhappy with the 
actions of the solicitors in not pursuing the CCTV footage she'll need to complain to them 
directly. And I'm unable to consider the solicitor's actions in this decision.
Admiral advised her that, as she wasn't at fault for the accident, she could use her legal 
expenses policy to recover her losses, which she did. But Admiral explained to her that, if 
she wanted to claim through her policy she'd have to pay her excess of £300. It also 
advised her which garage she could use. Miss N was reluctant to use Admirals approved 
repairer as she thought it was too far away and she said she'd look for her own garage. 
She also said she wasn't sure she wanted to claim. And, ultimately, she decided to not do 
so.
I don't think Admiral treated Miss N unfairly on the telephone call and I'm satisfied it did 
make it reasonably clear she could claim on her policy - and it did offer to do so. But, 
ultimately, Miss N didn't want to do so. Admiral was only required to handle the claim, if it 
incurs an outlay - i.e. if Miss N asked it to arrange to have her car repaired. As she didn't 
do so, it wasn't required to pursue the claim.
Ultimately, while I naturally sympathise with the situation Miss N has found herself in, I can't 
say Admiral has treated her unfairly in respect to this claim.
Increase in premium
Admiral has provided us with a copy of its internal pricing matrix to show how it's 
calculated the annual premium. It's also explained why the premium increased as a result 
of this incident. I've looked at this and I'm satisfied Admiral has applied this fairly in this 
instance, in line with its own internal guidance.
Neither part responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me anything else to think about, I dont see any reason to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. So I dont uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision. My final decision
For the reasons I set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 August 2020. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman