DRN-3938432
The complaint
Mrs C complains about her annual service cover with British Gas Insurance Limited (BGIL).
And their handling of a claim for her gas fire made under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs C took out a Home Care Service 3 policy with BGIL in November 2017. The policy
covered her boiler, controls and central heating, an annual service, plus repairs to plumbing
and drains. Mrs C also asked for a gas fire she acquired in 2016 to be included under
additional cover in the policy. Mrs C paid an additional fee for the cover for her gas fire.
Mrs Cs gas fire had a remote-control function which she found useful given shed mobility
issues.
In January 2018, Mrs Cs first annual service was carried out. But in March 2018, Mrs C said
her fire wasnt working. BGIL sent an engineer who said the fire needed a new
thermocouple, but the item wasnt in stock. He placed an order for the part. A few days later
BGIL sent another engineer who replaced the batteries in the fires remote control and left
with the fire now working. But in May 2018 Mrs C again had problems with the fire not
lighting. And at this time the thermocouple was replaced.
In November 2018, Mrs Cs was again having problems with her fire and a couple of error
messages showed on her remote control. BGIL sent engineers on three occasions to check
Mrs Cs fire and to make repairs.
In February 2019, Mrs Cs annual inspection was done. But in April 2019 there were further
issues with the fire and another thermocouple was replaced, there was a total strip down of
her fire, and a new grommet fitted to the gas pipe entrance hole. But Mrs C saw another
error message about her fire in September 2019, it was found that the burner bar was
cracked and there were again issues with the thermocouple, another replacement
thermocouple was ordered.
In October 2019 the main burner wouldnt stay lit. And it was agreed by BGIL that there was
a need for the manufacturer to carry out the repairs under warranty as previous repairs
hadnt resolved the issues. Mrs C said that her warranty had been voided due to the actions
taken by BGIL in their annual services, so BGIL agreed to cover any costs incurred by
Mrs C.
In December 2019 an independent engineer visited and identified issues with previous
repairs as the thermocouple had been routed incorrectly and the burner bar was cracked.
Mrs C was charged £120 for the work, and her fire was working when the engineer left. Due
to an unexpected bereavement Mrs C said she had to go away for a couple of days. And on
her return the fire did light but there was an error message about over heating that came up.
She said she found a workable solution in that when she turned on the fire she immediately
put it on its lowest setting. But this didnt provide sufficient heat to her home, only a warm
glow.
In May 2021 Mrs C complained to BGIL about the renewal cost of her policy, the lack of
annual services that shed paid for, and the poor customer service shed experienced
regarding her fire.
BGIL apologised for not being able to carry out the annual service for the year November
2019 to November 2020, as this was due to difficulties caused by the pandemic. They
agreed to reimburse Mrs C £130 for the service charge. And looked to arrange an annual
service for Mrs C under her current policy cover. They also apologised for the multiple repair
issues theyd been unable to rectify for Mrs Cs fire which meant a third party carrying out the
repair. They said Mrs C had been reimbursed £120 for this and BGIL offered Mrs C a further
£50 for the inconvenience this had caused. BGIL said theyd reviewed Mrs Cs policy cover
for the current year and said they would offer a discounted price. BGIL acknowledged that
Mrs C had further issues about her fire and asked her to expand on the issues so that they
could investigate it further.
Mrs C wasnt happy with BGILs response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator asked BGIL to consider further comments from Mrs C about poor
workmanship during the repairs to her fire in April 2019, and the engineer arriving
unannounced and without paperwork. Also, the damage she said that was caused to her fire
in late 2019 that she said had again been caused by poor workmanship. And the poor
customer service shed received.
BGIL couldnt comment further on Mrs Cs specific points as the people involved were no
longer with the business.
Our investigator said that BGILs resolution to Mrs Cs complaint was fair and reasonable
and didnt ask them to do anything further.
Mrs C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2023 thatt said:
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, or unavailable as it is here, I
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. I can see Mrs C has gone to some
trouble to provide our service with some very detailed submissions, including specific points
about the management of BGILs engineers and service delivery. I want to assure her that
Ive read everything shes sent us. I hope shell understand if I dont address every comment
shes made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key to the
complaint.
Its clear that Mrs C feels very strongly that her complaint should be upheld. As a
longstanding customer, I recognise that she feels let down by the service she
received. But, while I can understand Mrs Cs frustration, our service is impartial. We dont
take either sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint, and we dont regulate or
punish businesses. My role here is to assess whether I think BGIL made a mistake or
treated Mrs C unfairly. If the evidence suggests that it did, I must determine whether BGIL
has offered adequate compensation that reflects the distress and inconvenience that was
caused by what happened.
I can see from BGILs records that they acknowledge the repairs that had been done hadntresolved the issue. This is evident from the visit made by BGIL in October 2019 when its
recommended for the manufacturer of the fire to look into the issues instead of BGIL
engineers. It was also suggested that this could be done under Mrs Cs warranty but Mrs C
has explained this wasnt an option. Mrs C said that her warranty had been voided by the
work done previously by BGIL. Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mrs Cs policy
which says under warranty:
If your boiler, appliance or system is covered by a third-party warranty, its your
responsibility to make sure that any work we do doesnt affect that warranty.
But I can see that during the same visit made to Mrs C in October 2019 BGIL agreed that
they would cover the cost of the independent repair - £120, which I think was fair and
reasonable. And I understand Mrs C has been reimbursed for this. From the repair that
subsequently followed in December 2019 it was noted:
Flame rectification fault causing fire to fail. This was down to thermocouple routed
Incorrectly and damaging part. Also, ht lead had signs of damage so has been replaced.
Burner bar that has been replaced was slightly out of position, altered and Tested
I can see from the records of the repairs done that the thermocouple had been replaced by
BGIL on more than one occasion. And from the above report I think its clear that this hadnt
been done correctly causing further damage. So, I can understand why Mrs C, from her
account, felt concern about the standard of the repairs and the workmanship, and that she
felt uncomfortable about how some of these repairs were done.
BGIL has taken steps to put things right for Mrs C by reimbursing her annual service fee
(£130) which couldnt be done due to the pandemic. Covering the costs of an independent
engineer carrying out repair work (£120) and by reducing her renewal premium. BGIL has
also offered Mrs C £50 for distress and inconvenience. While I think BGIL has put right
issues around Mrs Cs annual service and premium, I dont think their offer of £50 for the
distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs C is enough.
Mrs C has mobility and other health issues and being without the warmth of a fire for periods
over this time is upsetting and I think would have caused Mrs C discomfort. She has also
had the inconvenience of reporting faults, arranging repair visits and for repairs to be carried
out only for further repair work being needed. And I think its clear that some of the issues
with Mrs Cs fire are due to repairs not being done correctly which appear to have caused
further damage. I cant know which thermocouple repair was routed incorrectly but the first
such repair was carried out in May 2018, and Mrs C has had ongoing issues with her fire for
sometime after this. So, to reflect the distress and inconvenience that she has experienced I
intend to ask BGIL to pay Mrs C a further £300 (£350 in total)
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party presented further evidence for consideration.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and ask British Gas Insurance Limited on top of the payments theyve 
made for the annual service - £130, repair - £120 and reduction in premium. To pay Mrs C:
£350 for distress and inconvenience caused by their poor service.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman