DRN-4215317
The complaint
Ms K complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to refund her for a transaction 
which she said she hadnt made.
What happened
On 19 January 2022, a £565.00 payment was debited to Ms Ks Barclays account, and it 
was re-credited the same day. Barclays later said it hadnt done this, so it was probably 
refunded by, or bounced from, the recipient merchant. 
On 24 January, an £833.00 payment was debited to Ms Ks Barclays account. This was to 
the same merchant.
On 8 February, Ms K rang Barclays to say she hadnt made the payment. Barclays gave her 
a temporary credit while it investigated, and sent her a form to complete. Barclayss letter 
enclosing the form said that Ms Ks card had been cancelled. It went on to say: The 
completed documents must be received by us within the next 10 working days. If you do not 
return the completed forms within this time, we will assume that you take full responsibility 
for the disputed transaction(s). This will mean that, if you initially received a temporary credit 
for these disputed payments we will debit this back from your account or travel wallet.
Ms K says that she didnt receive this letter, and says that Barclays didnt tell her that the 
credit was temporary. As Barclays didnt receive the form back from Ms K, it re-debited the 
temporary credit. Ms K complained. There were multiple issues with Ms K not receiving the 
forms which Barclays emailed, and Barclays not receiving Ms Ks emailed returned forms. 
This meant that the £833 was credited and debited multiple times until Barclays received the 
completed form. 
In July, Barclays completed its investigation and notified Ms K that it held her liable. In 
Barclays final response letter to Ms K on 1 August, it said that having reviewed all the 
information available, it was satisfied that its decision to hold her liable for the disputed 
activity was correct. So this meant it wouldnt refund her with the £833, which would re-debit 
her account again shortly. This was because it had evidence that proved that the disputed 
transaction hadnt been completed fraudulently.
Ms K wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ks complaint. He said that he understood it had taken 
multiple attempts for the form to be sent to Ms K and received by Barclays, but he thought 
the issues were down to postal services and not to Barclays. He said that although he didnt 
know what had been said on the phone, the forms made it clear that the credit had been 
temporary.
The investigator also explained that Ms K had told him that her debit card had been lost at 
the time of the payment. But the technical records had shown that Ms Ks registered mobile 
had been used to make the £833 payment, and that the payment had also been verified by a 
one-time passcode which had been sent to her mobile. Ms K had confirmed to the 
investigator that she hadnt lost her phone at that time. The investigator had also asked Ms K 
whether anyone else had access to her phone and account details. Ms K said she hadnt 
given anyone access to her mobile banking or banking details. She said her family and close 
friends knew her phone passcode, but she would never give them her phone or confidential 
information.
The investigator said that he didnt think it was likely that a third party had been able to make 
the payment without Ms Ks consent. So he thought it was fair for Barclays to have held Ms 
K liable for it.
Ms K didnt agree. She said Barclays hadnt told her in the phone calls that the refund had 
been temporary, but had just automatically refunded and removed the money multiple times. 
She said that after the first form, which she didnt receive, everything had been emailed. She 
said that on these later attempts, Barclays hadnt been happy with her signature, or with 
other small details, which was why Barclays had kept refunding the money and taking it back 
again. She asked why Barclays had had to apply a temporary refund every time when the 
form was the same.
Ms K said she wanted to appeal, and her complaint was referred to me for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The emails between Ms K and the investigator after the investigators View focus on 
Barclays procedure about the form. Ill deal with that below, but the key issue in Ms Ks 
complaint is whether or not Barclays should refund her for the disputed £833 payment.
Regulations and the disputed payment
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions, and the relevant regulations here 
are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the 
customer didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise 
them. So Ive considered whether its more likely than not that it was Ms K, or a third party 
fraudster, who carried out the disputed £833 transaction. Ive not focused on the £565 
transaction because this was returned to the account the same day, as Ive explained above.
The technical records show that the £833 payment was carried out using Ms Ks registered 
mobile, which she had used for many other transactions which she hadnt disputed. It was 
verified by a one-time passcode which was sent to her mobile. And the IP address (a unique 
computer identifier) was the same as one which Ms K used for other, undisputed, logins and 
transactions.
Ms K told us that shed lost her debit card at the time, but she hadnt lost her phone. She 
said that no-one else used her card, knew her PIN or internet banking details, and she 
hadnt recorded the details of her debit card, PIN, or internet banking either.  When the 
investigator asked Ms K whether anyone else would have had access to her mobile, she 
said she wasnt sure, because sometimes it was lying around and not with me. But without 
any of the security details Ive listed, I cant see how any third party could have carried out 
the disputed transaction. So I think its more likely than not that Ms K carried out the 
transaction herself. This means Barclays doesnt have to refund her.
Barclays procedures about the temporary creditsMs K is unhappy that she says she wasnt told that the credits to her account were 
temporary. Barclays 8 February letter sets out clearly that the credit was temporary, though I 
recognise that Ms K says she never received that, and all subsequent attempts to sort out 
the completed fraud claim form were made by email. 
I dont have the call recordings of every phone call, but in any event I think its reasonable to 
expect Ms K to have realised that the credit wouldnt be permanent, because the 
investigation couldnt have been completed until after Barclays had received full details and 
declaration from Ms K. 
 
In terms of the multiple temporary credits and debits, I recognise that it must have been 
frustrating for both sides that it took many attempts before the fraud claim form was 
completed. But I think that was just the result of individual circumstances around each 
attempt, not the fault of Barclays. 
Finally, in relation to Barclays procedures to provide a customer with a temporary credit, this 
service doesnt have the jurisdiction to instruct a bank to change its processes. Thats the 
role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). But I would point out that its 
common practice among banks to give a prompt temporary credit to a customer who 
disputes a transaction, with a review when the investigation has been finished. This is 
generally an advantage to customers, not a disadvantage.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman