DRN-3719190
The complaint
Ms F complains that Santander UK Plc have withdrawn money from her account which she 
credited. 
What happened
In September 2021, Ms F went to a Santander branch. She says she had £1000 worth of old 
£50 notes and wanted to exchange them for new ones; but the cashier told Ms F they didnt 
have any available. So, Ms F asked to pay the money into her account.
At the end of that day, the Santander cashiers till didnt balance and after further checks, it 
was down by £2,000. Santander carried out an internal investigation and found that the 
cashier had accidently input to the till that Ms Fs account had been credited by £1,000; and 
the CCTV showed that the cashier handed Ms F £1,000 in cash without logging a 
withdrawal. Therefore, Ms Fs account balance would have been £2,000 in credit in error.
The branch tried to contact Ms F by telephone about the error but was unsuccessful. On 
17 September 2021, Santander debited a trust account in Ms Fs name of £2,000.
Unhappy with things, Ms F brought the complaint to our service. She said the money had 
been unfairly taken from her granddaughters account.
Our investigator reviewed things and partially upheld Ms Fs complaint. In summary, she 
said that she was satisfied based on the evidence,  that she felt Santander made a mistake 
when handling Ms Fs account and deposited money instead of withdrawing it  so she 
thought it was reasonable for Santander to recover the £2,000 from Ms F. However, she 
didnt think they were entitled to take the money from the trust account as this was money 
which belonged to Ms Fs granddaughter.
Ms F remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service provides informal dispute resolution. I wont be able to say exactly what 
happened and Ill be thinking about what is most likely. Firstly, Santander have confirmed 
they only hold CCTV footage for around six months. I do think it would have been helpful to 
view this, and I recognise Ms F believes this is a key part to the investigation. However, as it 
isnt available, Ive had to make my decision based on the evidence which has been 
presented to me by both Ms F and Santander.
Ive firstly thought carefully about Ms Fs comments relating to her going into the branch after 
this transaction, and nobody raising it with her. I dont doubt this would have been confusing, 
but the crux of this complaint is whether the error happened or not. So I dont consider the 
way Santander informed Ms F is entirely relevant to the overall outcome here.
I dont doubt Ms F has brought this complaint in good faith but that isnt enough to allow me 
to uphold it. Its not impossible that a branch error was made  and Santander have provided 
technical evidence such as the journal roll, the cashiers electronic certification for the 
transaction, and written testimony when the CCTV was viewed. This is evidence I cant 
ignore, and while Ms Fs version of events is important in itself, based on everything I have 
seen, I find it most likely that Santander made a mistake when crediting the account on the 
system which has resulted in her falsely benefiting from £2,000.
However, like the investigator, I dont agree Santander have been fair in taking this money 
from a trust account for Ms Fs granddaughter. I think it would have been more appropriate 
to either debit Ms Fs account directly; or arrange a repayment plan to allow Ms F to repay 
this money.
Putting things right
Santander should credit Ms Fs granddaughters account with the £2,000 they debited from it 
immediately. Ms F and Santander should then agree an affordable arrangement to pay, to 
allow Ms F to repay the £2,000 debt. If Ms F doesnt respond to Santanders request for the 
repayment agreement, I find it reasonable for Santander to debit the account, so it is in 
arrears and follow the appropriate collections action.
I appreciate Ms F will be disappointed by my decision overall, but as explained, based on the 
evidence Ive received, I think its more likely that she falsely benefited from £2,000 by an 
error made by the Santander cashier.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I partially uphold this complaint. To put things right, 
Santander UK Plc must credit Ms Fs granddaughters account with the £2,000 they debited. 
And Ms F must commit to an arrangement to pay Santander back the £2,000 she owes them 
from this error.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman