DRN-3443604
The complaint
Miss P complains about Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) for declining her application for a 
student bank account, and for customer service issues she experienced around her 
application. She wants Lloyds to change her bank account and to pay her compensation for 
her experience. 
What happened
Miss P began an access course in September 2021. This was with a view to continuing into 
further study. 
She applied to her bank, Lloyds, to change her current account to a student account, which 
had fewer charges. 
Miss P had to attend branch with her evidence of the course. She took along her learning 
agreement with a third party which gave the course details and start and end dates.
Whilst in branch, Miss P says that she was told she needed to have a university course 
code. She says that the member of staff she spoke with was rude and unhelpful, and she 
found her attitude appalling. 
Miss P then called Lloyds. She was told again that she needed the university course code, 
and she was told that she would be called back. Miss P says that she did not receive a 
returned call. 
Miss P complained to Lloyds and Lloyds sent its final response in November 2021. Lloyds 
declined the complaint but stopped overdraft fees on Miss Ps account for the following 30 
days to allow her to provide additional evidence so that the account could be changed. 
Miss P was not happy with this and contacted us. 
Our investigator looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties. That was that the 
evidence Miss P had provided to us did not meet Lloyds student account requirements and 
so Lloyds had been entitled to decline the application for a student account. Our investigator 
did not think that Lloyds had communicated the requirements to Miss P clearly, however, 
and recommended that to put matters right Lloyds should continue its waiver of overdraft 
fees up until 30 days after resolution of Miss Ps complaint. He also thought that Lloyds 
should pay Miss P £100 compensation to reflect her not receiving a returned call and for her 
inconvenience. 
Lloyds accepted this recommendation. Miss P did not accept the view and asked for an 
ombudsman decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read my colleagues view, and the supporting evidence, and I agree with his 
conclusions.
The evidence provided by Lloyds details what is required to be eligible for a student account 
and, whilst from Miss Ps account of her studies it seems she would be eligible, the learning 
agreement she provided to Lloyds does not appear to meet the criteria. 
Lloyds is allowed to set eligibility criteria for its accounts and to abide by these, so long as it 
does so fairly, and that it communicates the requirements clearly to consumers. Lloyds is 
entitled to make an assessment of the evidence provided, and in this circumstance I cannot 
say that it has treated Miss P unfairly in the decision to decline the account. 
I agree, however, that on the available evidence it does not appear that Lloyds 
communicated clearly and helpfully with Miss P, as it appears to have focussed too heavily 
on needing a course code, and hasnt made clear to Miss P what evidence she could obtain 
for her situation. 
I cannot determine the attitude or the comments made by the member of staff Miss P spoke 
to in branch, but it is clear that she felt that this was inappropriate and unhelpful. I have 
therefore borne this in mind when looking at the appropriate resolution. 
My colleague considered that a fair outcome was for Lloyds to maintain its waiver of 
overdraft fees until this complaint is resolved and Miss P has had a further opportunity to 
submit her evidence. I think this is fair and reflects the financial impact upon Miss P of the 
issues in communication. 
I agree that Lloyds has not acted unfairly in requiring evidence to be produced in branch in 
these circumstances as it does not seem that Miss P raised with Lloyds any difficulty which 
prevented her attending. If she is unable to attend a branch again due to her disability, I 
would expect Lloyds, when aware of her difficulties, to make reasonable adjustments. 
Overall, I appreciate that Miss P has not felt that she was communicated with properly, and 
this has caused her the distress and inconvenience of a delay and a wasted trip into branch. 
I agree with the investigators assessment that £100 compensation is appropriate and in line 
with other awards we would make in similar circumstances. 
I therefore partially uphold Miss Ps complaint in that I think Lloyds failed to communicate 
properly with her. 
Putting things right
In order to put matters right, I agree that Lloyds should waive any overdraft charges incurred 
on Miss Ps account on or after 16 February 2022, and for a further period of 30 days after 
this decision becomes binding on the parties, to allow Miss P time to provide her evidence. 
Lloyds should also pay to Miss P £100 compensation to reflect her distress and 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss Ps complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to 
remove any overdraft charges from Miss Ps account between 16 February 2022 and 30 
days after this complaint becomes binding on the parties. 
I also direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Miss P £100 compensation.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman