DRN-2961538
The complaint
Mrs V complains that Nationwide Building Society has failed to comply with her instructions 
as set out in a Lasting Power of Attorney (LPA).
Mrs V has appointed two attorneys jointly to manage her affairs. The attorneys are
represented by a firm of solicitors. In this decision Ill refer to the attorneys as Mr Q and Mrs 
C.
  
What happened
Mrs V has a current account with Nationwide. She created a LPA, using the standard 
documents provided by the Office of the Public Guardian (OPG), under which she 
appointed Mr Q and Mrs C as her attorneys. The LPA stated that the attorneys could make 
decisions jointly as soon as it was registered. Mrs V signed the LPA on 13 October 2017 
in the presence of her solicitor. The LPA was subsequently registered with the OPG on 8 
March 2018.
The solicitors for the attorneys wrote to Nationwide by letter dated 6 January 2020. 
Enclosed with the letter was a copy of the LPA. In the letter the solicitors stated that Mrs V 
now lacked capacity and on that basis the attorneys had assumed authority to deal with her 
financial affairs under the terms of the LPA. The solicitors drew Nationwides attention to 
the fact that the attorneyship must function on the basis that the attorneys would act jointly 
and not jointly and severally. They asked for the name on the account to be changed and 
requested that a new cheque book in the joint names of the attorneys should be issued.
Nationwide responded by asking the attorneys to complete its Registration of Power of 
Attorney form. It didnt enclose a copy of that form and this caused a delay. The form was 
subsequently completed and returned to Nationwide on 20 January 2020. The attorneys 
also requested that three direct debits and one standing order on the account should be 
cancelled.
Nationwide responded by letter dated 31 January 2020. That letter was sent to the 
address of Mrs C. It confirmed that the power of attorney had been registered and that all 
correspondence would be sent to Mrs Cs address. If the attorneys wanted to change this 
they could send Nationwide a request. The letter also confirmed that the standing order 
and the three direct debits had been cancelled.
The solicitors acting for the attorneys raised a complaint with Nationwide. They 
raised several matters which are summarised below:
The standing order had not been cancelled as requested. As a result, there were 
insufficient funds in the account to make certain payments to HMRC which had 
been returned unpaid.
Nationwide had sent a cheque book to Mr Q. The cheque book was in Mrs Vs 
name and there was no indication of the status of Mr Q or Mrs C. Nationwide had 
also sent a cheque book to Mrs C in which she appeared as the sole attorney. 
This showed that Nationwide had failed to understand the fact that the 
attorneyship was joint.
The solicitors asked Nationwide to confirm that it had noted the joint attorneyship on its 
records and would issue a cheque book with both attorneys names on it. They also 
asked for confirmation that the standing order and direct debits had now been 
cancelled.
Nationwide investigated the complaint. It said it had sent a letter to Mrs Cs address 
confirming that it had registered the power of attorney as joint and several. It said it 
hadnt been possible to cancel the direct debits and standing order any earlier than it 
had. It confirmed they had all now been cancelled.
Nationwide said it didnt offer cheque books with joint attorney details. It was possible to 
issue a cheque book in the sole name of Mrs V. It also confirmed that statements would 
be sent to Mrs Cs address as requested by the attorneys.
The attorneys were not satisfied with this response. They said:
The letter dated 31 January shouldve been sent to both attorneys separately;
Nationwide said it didnt offer cheque books with joint attorney details. The 
attorneys said this approach was not in line with standard practice and they did 
not accept that it could be correct. They also queried how they could access the 
account in these circumstances; and
Nationwide shouldve sent a response to the solicitors acting for the attorneys.
Nationwide reviewed its final response, but it didnt change its decision. The 
attorneys referred their complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into their complaint. She said that the original instructions had 
been sent by post and that was why it had taken Nationwide longer to action the request. 
She said that Nationwide didnt offer the option for joint cheque books to be issued and it 
wasnt our role to tell Nationwide to change its systems. She also considered what the 
attorneys had said about the address for statements. She referred to Nationwides letter 
dated 31 January where she said the attorneys had been informed that they could request 
the address for statements to be changed. They hadnt done that and so she didnt think 
Nationwide had made an error.
She noted that Nationwide hadnt correctly marked its records to say that the 
attorneyship was joint. But she didnt think this mistake had caused Mrs V to 
experience any significant impact. She didnt uphold the complaint.
The attorneys disagreed. So, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Ive thought about the various points which the attorneys have raised on 
behalf of Mrs V. To make things clearer, Ive dealt with each point 
separately.The delay in actioning the instruction dated 20 January 2020 to cancel 
three direct debits and one standing order
This instruction was sent by post to Nationwide. Nationwide has confirmed 
that it was scanned by it on 21 January 2020. It confirmed it had actioned 
the correspondence by letter to the attorneys dated 31 January 2020.
The instruction here was to cancel three direct debits and one standing 
order. Nationwide says that this was received too late to cancel a direct 
debit which had been received for processing on 23 January 2020. It 
hasnt offered any explanation why it didnt cancel the standing order that 
was paid on 27 January 2020.
Ive thought about what Nationwide has said here. Ive looked at the terms 
and conditions for the account. These state as follows:
You can cancel the payment [direct debit] up to 6.00pm on 
the working day or Saturday before it is due to leave your 
account.

You can cancel the payment [standing order] up to 8.30pm on the 
working day before it is due to leave your account
Having looked at the date that the instruction was received by Nationwide 
here, Im satisfied that the attorneys had given Nationwide sufficient time to 
cancel both the direct debit and the standing order that were debited to the 
account on 27 January 2020.
It is the case that any payment made by direct debit has the benefit of the 
direct debit guarantee. So, the attorneys couldve asked for a refund of the 
direct debit that was paid after the date of cancellation. That option is still 
available to them. In relation to the standing order, I can see that that 
payment appears to have been made to an account in Mrs Vs name with a 
different bank. So, the attorneys couldve asked for that payment to be 
returned if that was what they wanted to do. There is no evidence that the 
attorneys have sought to recover either of the payments.
The attorneys have confirmed that the financial loss (interest due to HMRC 
for late payment) was nominal. So, I dont think Mrs V has suffered any 
direct financial loss as a result of the delay in cancelling the payments 
referred to.
The attorneys say that if these payments had not been made the payment to 
HMRC wouldnt have been returned unpaid. Theyve referred to 
embarrassment caused because of what happened.
Ive thought about what the attorneys have said here. I can see that a 
payment to HMRC had already been returned unpaid prior to 20 January 
2020. Ive also noted that any interest charged by HMRC as a result of what 
happened was nominal.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Mrs V experienced poor 
service and for that reason I intend to uphold this part of her complaint.Nationwide didnt action her request in line with the timescales set out in the 
terms and conditions for the account. This caused a delay in payments she 
was required to make to HMRC. So, although I dont think she suffered any 
direct financial loss, I think she should be compensated for the poor service 
she received. Ill comment further about this below under the heading What 
needs to be done to put things right.
Nationwide didnt send communications to both attorneys
After it received the Registration of Power of Attorney form, Nationwide 
sent a letter dated 31 January 2020, to the address of Mrs C, one of the 
attorneys, to confirm that the LPA had been registered and that all future 
correspondence would be sent to her address. It also confirmed that the 
standing order and direct debits had been cancelled as requested.
The attorneys say this was incorrect since all correspondence shouldve 
been sent to each of them separately. Theyve also said that Nationwide 
shouldve sent a response to the solicitors.
Ive looked at the Registration of Power of Attorney form which the attorneys 
completed. There is a section in that form entitled Correspondence Address 
 for all future mailings and statements. The attorneys have ticked the box 
in this section to Change address to Attorney 1.
Attorney 1 on the form was Mrs C.
Beside this information there is an asterisk with the following handwritten 
note
 Would prefer solicitors address to be used
Having looked at the information on the form, I dont think Nationwide did 
anything wrong when it decided to change the correspondence address for 
the account to Mrs Cs address. Although the form indicated that the 
attorneys might have preferred their solicitors address to be used  that 
was not one of the options available. And, it is the case that the letter of 31 
January 2020 did explain that if the attorneys wanted to change the mailing 
address then they could submit a written request to do that.
Whilst I can understand why the attorneys have said that Nationwide 
shouldve also sent a response to the solicitors acting for them, it is the case 
that it did send a response to Mrs Cs address and she wouldve been able 
to pass that on to the solicitors. Ive noted that Nationwide did respond 
directly to the other correspondence sent to it from the solicitors acting for 
the attorneys.
So, having considered the matter, my provisional decision is that I dont 
intend to uphold this part of the complaint.
Nationwides failure to issue a cheque book in the joint names of the 
attorneys
Ive looked firstly at the terms of the LPA. This makes clear that Mrs Vs 
instruction was that the attorneys should act jointly. The LPA gives some 
further information about what this means. It says that the attorneys must 
agree unanimously on every decision, however big or small. This was also explained to Mrs V when she signed the LPA. The certificate provider 
certified that Mrs V understood the purpose of the LPA and the scope of the 
authority conferred under it. So, I think Mrs Vs instructions were clear  she 
wanted her attorneys to act jointly.
Nationwide says it cannot operate a cheque book account where the 
attorneys are to act jointly.
When I asked it to comment on its policy its response hasnt been clear or 
consistent. 
It has provided the following statements:
We can issue chequebooks in joint names for accounts that are in 
joint names, however Mrs Vs account is in sole names meaning the 
chequebooks that are issued on the back of this account would be in 
sole names also. The POA [power of attorney] team have confirmed 
that chequebooks issued on the back of POA registration are not 
made in joint names but rather sole names and separate 
chequebooks for the relevant POAs on the account.
It subsequently stated:
Once both attorneys have been ID confirmed within the branch, 
they can make joint decisions in relation to Mrs Vs account. They 
will have a chequebook in joint names as the POA, however they 
will also be able to use Mrs Vs debit card or chequebook as there is 
a marker present on all of their profiles to confirm that they are 
Mrs Vs POAs. As there are two POAs present for Mrs V, they will 
need to make joint decisions on the account meaning both signature 
is required..
When we issue chequebooks for joint accounts, these are not in 
joint names but each account holder gets a chequebook in their 
sole name. The same applies when joint attorneys are on the 
account, they get a chequebook each in their sole names. We 
appreciate that there are two attorneys present, however as we 
dont offer joint named chequebooks and it isnt possible for us to 
produce joint chequebooks, this isnt something that we can 
facilitate.
Having read through these responses, although the information is 
inconsistent and contradictory, Ive concluded that Nationwide does not 
offer its customers a joint cheque book service where the cheque book 
bears the names of both attorneys.
Its not our role to tell a business that it must offer a service which it doesnt 
provide to its customers. But, I can look at whether it has acted fairly and 
reasonably when dealing with its customer. This is particularly relevant 
where, as here, the customer lacks capacity and has appointed attorneys to 
manage her affairs.
Having considered the matter, Im not persuaded, on balance, that 
Nationwide has acted fairly and reasonably here. I say this for mainly the 
following reasons:(1) It didnt inform Mrs V that a joint cheque book wouldnt be 
available.
Ive looked at the information that Mrs V wouldve had access to when she 
signed the LPA.
There is nothing in the terms that specifically states that Nationwide doesnt 
offer cheque books on a joint account where the joint account holders 
indicate that they want the account to be operated on a both to sign basis. 
There is a reference in the Current Account Declaration as follows:
For joint accounts:
(i)         You can pay cheques and act on instructions signed by 
either of us unless you are told otherwise.
Having considered this wording, I dont think it wouldve been clear to Mrs V 
that she couldnt tell Nationwide that she wanted her attorneys to sign 
cheques jointly. In its response to our service about the meaning of this 
wording, Nationwide said
Where the terms and conditions state told otherwise is for 
accounts that have operating instructions labelled as all to sign. 
This means that for payments to debit the account, all payments 
must be agreed by both holders, however this is solely for joint 
named accounts. You wouldnt have all to sign registered on a 
sole named account.
But, as set out in the rules which govern LPAs, it is entirely possible to 
have an all to sign or jointly to act instruction on a sole account where 
the accountholder appoints two attorneys.
So, Ive looked at Nationwides website to see if there is any further clarity 
there. The website includes a page setting out what attorneys can and 
cannot do. It refers to the fact that if the LPA states jointly then the 
attorney cannot have a card. Theres no reference to cheque books. And, 
theres no warning on this page to alert a customer who is granting a LPA 
that if they decide to appoint joint attorneys they cannot have a joint 
cheque book. I wouldve expected that to be made clear on this page.
At this point Id just point out that I understand why a business may decide 
not to issue a card where there is a joint account and the mandate requires 
all to sign. A card requires a PIN (personal identification number) to be 
issued to the cardholder. A PIN is a personalised security feature. It is 
unique to the cardholder and cannot be shared with another party. For that 
reason, a card could not be issued where there is a joint attorneyship. But a 
cheque is different  it does not include any personalised security features 
because it can be signed by both attorneys without breaching the terms and 
conditions that would be associated with the issuance of a payment 
instrument such as a card, which requires a PIN.
When considering this point, Ive also noted the inconsistent statements 
Nationwide has provided to our service about joint cheque books.So, having taken everything into account, I dont think it would be 
reasonable to assume that Mrs V shouldve known that because a joint 
card wouldnt be available to her attorneys, the same would apply to a joint 
cheque book. And in these circumstances, I dont think Nationwide did 
enough here to make clear to Mrs V, before she signed the LPA, that her 
attorneys couldnt have a joint cheque book if she required them to act 
jointly.
(2) It didnt respond appropriately to the request to register 
the LPA
The attorneys sent a copy of the LPA to Nationwide with the letter from their 
solicitor dated 6 January 2020. The letter explicitly asked Nationwide to note 
that Mrs V now lacked capacity and they held medical evidence to support 
this. The letter asked Nationwide to note that the attorneyship must function 
on the basis that the attorneys were to act jointly and not jointly and 
severally. Nationwide was instructed to change the nomenclature on the 
account and issue a joint cheque book.
If Nationwide couldnt issue a joint cheque book I wouldve expected it to 
respond immediately to the solicitors to advise them of this. That might have 
enabled the attorneys to make informed choices at an early stage about 
how best to manage Mrs Vs finances.
Nationwide didnt do that. Instead it asked only for its own form - 
Registration of Power of Attorney- to be completed.
Ive looked at that form and there is a note in section one which says:
Attorneys appointed to act jointly are unable to receive cards or 
chequebooks.
But I dont see where Nationwide drew this specially to the attention of the 
attorneys. And when it processed the form, it doesnt appear to have dealt 
with the fact that this was a joint attorneyship. Instead it marked the LPA on 
its records as joint and several. It issued two separate cheque books to 
the attorneys. That was an error on its part which it didnt deal with even 
after the solicitors acting for the attorneys brought it to Nationwides 
attention in several subsequent letters including letters dated 20 February 
2020 and 2 April 2020. Ill comment further about this point below.
(3) It didnt provide any information to the attorneys about how they 
could access the account
After the attorneys complained to Nationwide about what had happened it 
confirmed that it couldnt offer joint cheque books. But it didnt provide any 
assistance to them or information about what it could do to help them to 
access the account in other ways.
It said in its letter dated 27 February 2020 that the donor (Mrs V) could still 
have her own cheque book. But, that information was incorrect because by 
that stage Mrs V had lost capacity  so she couldnt operate her own 
cheque book. The attorneys, through their solicitors specifically asked 
Nationwide in the letter dated 2 April 2020 how they could access the account. Nationwide didnt respond to that query and it has recently 
confirmed to our service:
Our records dont indicate that there had been a discussion with 
the attorneys on how they can access the accounts.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in its recent Guidance for firms on 
the fair treatment of vulnerable customers urged firms to set up systems 
and processes in a way that supports and enables vulnerable customers. 
Having thought about Nationwides response here, I dont think it has done 
everything that it couldve reasonably been expected to do to support and 
enable Mrs V to access her account.
It has recently told our service that it would be able to comply with written 
payment instructions provided that such instructions are signed by both 
attorneys. It says it can also provide a counter service to the attorneys 
providing they are both present at the same time. So, even though it 
couldnt provide a joint cheque book, I think it shouldve discussed these 
options with the attorneys at an early stage. That might have prevented 
some of the difficulties that have arisen in this case.
Nationwides failure to register the power of attorney as joint
As mentioned above Nationwide failed to register the power of 
attorney as joint. It has accepted this was an error and has now 
corrected its records.
Because of this error it failed to follow Mrs Vs instructions and wrongly 
issued cheque books in the sole names of the attorneys. Those cheque 
books were not used and as a result Mrs V hasnt suffered any loss.
Nationwide has subsequently offered Mrs V £250 compensation for the 
inconvenience this caused. Mrs V hasnt accepted that offer. Ill comment 
further about that below, under the heading What needs to be done to put 
things right.
What needs to be done to put things right
Under the Rules which apply to our service (as set out in the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook (available online), the eligible 
complainant here is Mrs V. The attorneys can bring a complaint on her 
behalf because of the terms of the LPA which authorises them to make 
decisions on her behalf. When considering the complaints that have been 
raised I need to consider whether Mrs V has suffered (or may suffer) any 
financial loss, material distress or material inconvenience as a result of the 
matters complained about.
The attorneys have told us that theyve engaged solicitors and have 
incurred professional fees because of what happened here. They also say 
that theyve had to ask their solicitor to make payments, which Mrs V is 
required to make, from the firms client account  because they havent 
been able to write cheques for various essential items.
When considering the expenses which the attorneys have incurred, Ive 
firstly considered the fact that the eligible complainant in this case is Mrs V. So, I can only consider the expenses that the attorneys have mentioned if 
those expenses should be reimbursed by Mrs V.
Ive looked at the guidance published by the government on its website 
www.gov.uk. This states that an attorney can only claim expenses for things 
that must be done to carry out his or her role as an attorney. It gives an 
example of where a professional might need to be hired to act. The 
example given is filling in the donors tax returns.
But, having thought about this. I dont think that registering the LPA with 
Nationwide or dealing with the administrative issues that the attorneys 
faced here around the operation of the current account fall into that 
category. And whilst the attorneys were entitled to engage solicitors to 
advise and assist them, Im not persuaded that those expenses are of the 
type mentioned on the government website. So, I dont think Nationwide 
should be required to compensate Mrs V for the legal fees incurred by her 
attorneys.
I am of the view that Mrs V has experienced material inconvenience as 
a result of what happened here, and my current view is that 
Nationwide should be instructed to pay her compensation for that 
inconvenience.
Ive currently decided not to uphold the part of the complaint that 
concerned the mailing address used to send correspondence to the 
attorneys. But I have provisionally decided to uphold the other parts of the 
complaint.
As Ive said above, Nationwide delayed dealing with Mrs Vs request to 
cancel certain direct debits and a standing order. As a result, payments to 
HMRC were delayed.
Nationwide also hasnt acted fairly and reasonably when it:
didnt provide adequate information to alert Mrs V to the fact that it 
could not issue a joint cheque book to her attorneys;
didnt respond appropriately to the request to register the LPA;
didnt provide any information to the attorneys about how they 
could access the account; and
failed to register the LPA on its records as joint.
Nationwides actions have meant that Mrs Vs attorneys havent been able to 
access her account to manage her finances in the way that she could 
reasonably have expected when she signed the LPA. Shes been 
inconvenienced as a result and has had to make alternative arrangements to 
make payments. Nationwide has recently offered to pay her £250 by way of 
compensation because it didnt register the LPA on its records as joint. I 
dont think thats enough.
So, Ive provisionally decided that in order to resolve this complaint, 
Nationwide should pay Mrs V £750 by way of compensation for the 
inconvenience shes experienced at a time when she is no longer able to 
manage her own affairs. It should also provide a written statement to Mrs Vs 
attorneys setting out all of the means that they can use to access her 
account and make payments from it.My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I intend to 
uphold this complaint in part, about Nationwide Building Society. I intend to 
require Nationwide Building Society to take the following action:
 Pay Mrs V £750 by way of compensation for the inconvenience she 
experienced as a result of what happened; and
 Provide Mrs Vs attorneys with a written statement setting out all 
of the means that they can use to access Mrs Vs account and 
make payments from it.
Nationwide responded to my provisional decision. It said it accepted the provisional decision. 
Mrs V, by her attorneys, also responded to my provisional decision. The attorneys said they 
were prepared to accept the provisional decision. They didnt make any further comments.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the responses to my provisional decision, and for the reasons set out in 
that provisional decision, I remain of the view that this complaint should be upheld in part. I 
also havent changed my view about the actions Nationwide should take to resolve this 
complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint, in part, about Nationwide Building 
Society. I now require it to take the following actions:
  Pay Mrs V £750 by way of compensation for the inconvenience she 
experienced as a result of what happened; and
  Provide Mrs Vs attorneys with a written statement setting out all of the 
means that they can use to access Mrs Vs account and make payments 
from it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V, by her 
attorneys, to accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman