DRN-3579426
The complaint
Mr W complains about how UK Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim under his home 
insurance policy. When I mention UKI, I also mean its suppliers.
What happened
Mr W has a home insurance policy with UKI. In early January 2022 his boiler stopped 
working and he made a claim under his home emergency cover. 
UKI sent an engineer to inspect the boiler who said they thought the gas valve was faulty. 
The engineer said they would return and fit a replacement.
UKIs engineer didnt come back so Mr W contacted it to chase up his claim. After contacting 
UKI twice, UKI said it wouldnt cover the problem due to third party interference. This was 
said in error. 
UKI later said it couldnt cover the fault for another reason. It said because the boiler was 
working intermittently, it hadnt failed. So UKI wouldnt repair it under the terms of its policy. 
Mr W complained about UKIs poor communication and the conflicting information hed been 
given. He says the boiler requires a manual start each morning, and manual re-ignition three 
to four times each day.
UKI agreed its service had been poor and offered Mr W £75 for his inconvenience and 
stress. But UKI maintained its position that because the boiler was still providing hot water 
and heating, albeit intermittently, it couldnt consider the claim further.
Mr W remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into it and didnt uphold it. He said UKIs policy says:
Heating
We will pay for emergency assistance needed if the main source of heating in your 
home fails.
He said UKI had acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of its policy because Mr 
Ws boiler hadnt actually failed, and just needed repair. He also said UKIs offer of £75 
compensation was fair.
Mr W didnt agree with the view. He says UKI isnt entitled to refuse his claim because his 
boiler was working intermittently. He says this because this phrase isnt in the policy 
wording. 
He has paid £285 for repairs and wants UKI to refund this, apologise and pay a donation to 
charity. Because Mr W didnt agree, his complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. 
This is set out below:
Mr W has a young family and I can see from his evidence that to not have a reliable, working 
heating system in the coldest part of the year was stressful for him and his family. 
He points out that the word fail isnt defined in UKIs policy wording. I have thought about 
this carefully and I think a typical definition of it would be:
cease to work properly; breakdown
From the evidence I have and using the wording above, it seems clear to me that Mr Ws 
boiler had ceased to work properly when he made a claim under his policy. The engineer 
who attended diagnosed that the gas valve was faulty and, according to Mr W, said they 
would return and fit a replacement. 
That would indicate to me that UKI had accepted the claim and were in the process of 
providing the cover under the terms and conditions of the policy Mr W had bought.
I understand UKIs point of view when it said that the claim couldnt be covered because the 
boiler was working intermittently. Mr Ws boiler hadnt totally ceased to work, but he has said 
had to manually start it up to five times every day.
So I dont think its reasonable of UKI to maintain that the boiler hadnt failed or wasnt in the 
process of failing.
Mr W also says his understanding of the policy means UKI should cover emergencies where 
the boiler will fail, not just when it has failed. If I examine UKIs policy wording I can see this:
Emergency - An incident in the home that happens during the period of Insurance 
and which needs to be dealt with quickly to avoid:
> the home losing its main source of heating, lighting or water (hot or cold).
The cover that Mr W bought was for home emergencies and this phrase in UKIs wording 
seems to indicate to me that it will deal with emergencies to avoid the boiler ceasing to 
function entirely. 
It seems to me that the hot water and heating system were not functioning correctly  so 
using the definition above, it had failed. Taking into account that the boiler had not 
completely failed (in other words, it had not completely broken down) I agree with Mr W that 
UKIs policy seems to say it will cover claims to avoid the possibility of the boiler completely 
breaking down. 
So, I think its clear that UKIs policy should have covered what was happening to Mr Ws 
boiler and I think UKI should refund the amount Mr W has paid for repairs to it, which is 
£285.
Having provided the initial call-out service, and apparently having authorised the fitting of a 
replacement, UKI then said that it wouldnt cover the boiler because it was working 
intermittently. But Mr W had to chase up UKI three times to progress his claim, including 
being told incorrectly that the claim wasnt being covered for another reason entirely. 
Given Mr Ws situation with a young family, in winter and with a failed boiler, I dont think 
UKIs actions in handling the claim were fair and reasonable. Mr W has told this service of 
his stress and inconvenience during this period and he has had to arrange the repairs himself. So I think its fair to ask UKI to pay an additional £75 of compensation to Mr W, 
making a total of £150.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both Mr W and UKI accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agreed with my provisional decision, my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct UK 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr W:
£285 for the repairs to his boiler
£150 for his stress and inconvenience. If £75 has already been paid then this can be 
deducted.
UKI must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr W accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.*
*If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman