DRN-2533370
The complaint
 Miss M has complained that Emergency Cash Limited (trading as wizzcash.com
(Wizzcash)) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Miss M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Miss Ms complaint should be upheld in part. A 
copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this and form part 
of this final decision:
What I said in my provisional decision:
Miss M took two loans from Wizzcash between March 2018 and May 2018. A summary of
her borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Wizzcash, can be found below:
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidNo of 
InstalmentsAmount 
BorrowedMonthly 
Repayment
1 26/03/2018 11/04/2018 3 £200.00 £104.27
2 02/05/2018 30/05/2018 3 £250.00 £123.36
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Ms complaint. He thought the checks Wizzcash
completed were proportionate. And based on what Wizzcash knew about Miss Ms
circumstances at the time of the loan applications, it was satisfied Miss M could afford the
repayments. So, he didnt think it was wrong of Wizzcash to have provided these loans.
It appears that Wizzcash agreed with our adjudicators opinion. Miss M disagreed and
provided the following points for me to consider:
During this time of taking these loans she had several other payday lenders to repay
and she also had four guarantor loans that were taken out in May 2018.
Miss M also says that she had a total of three loans with Wizzcash.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were provided.
Wizzcash needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Miss M could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that
Wizzcash should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Wizzcash was required to establish
whether Miss M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint. And having done so Im intending
to partly uphold the complaint.
Miss M has told us she took out three loans with Wizzcash but has been unable to provide
any information or evidence about the third loan. Wizzcash has provided a screenshot
showing all of the applications made by Miss M. I can see there were some declined and
cancelled loans. But overall, based on what Ive been provided, Im satisfied that only two
loans were formally approved and funded. If Miss M would like to provide further information
about the additional loan in response to this provisional decision, I will be happy to
reconsider this point.
Loan 1
Wizzcash has told us it asked Miss M about her monthly income and expenditure, and then it
completed a credit check. At the time of her first loan application, Miss M declared she had a
monthly income of £1,900 and her monthly expenditure was noted as £761.45.
The results of Miss Ms credit checks show she had some outstanding short-term loans atthe time of the application. But as this was Miss Ms first loan with Wizzcash, I dont think it
was unreasonable that it decided to lend. After all, Miss M had no borrowing history with
Wizzcash for it to consider, and the monthly loan repayments of £104.27 appeared
affordable based on what Miss M declared to it and the results of the credit search. So, like
the adjudicator, I dont think Wizzcash was wrong to approve Miss Ms first loan.
Loan 2
Miss M applied for her second loan around three weeks after repaying loan 1. It appears that
Wizzcash completed the same types of checks as it did for her first loan application. And
based on the information it gathered, it seemed the loan repayments of £123.36 were
affordable.
But I dont think Wizzcash shouldve approved the second loan. Whilst Miss M initially
appeared to have enough disposable income to meet the monthly repayments, I think
Wizzcash were on notice that Miss M was potentially experiencing financial difficulties at the
time. I say this because the results of the credit check it completed showed Miss M was
continuing to take out further loans elsewhere and in my view showed she wasnt in a
position to take on this loan.
The credit checks carried out by Wizzcash showed it that Miss M had five outstanding loans
with other lenders at the time the application was made. It also seems Miss M had taken out
an additional payday loan shortly before her first loan with Wizzcash was approved.
The credit check also showed that she wasnt making any headway into repaying a payday
loan taken out on 22 January 2018. In my view, the number of loans, and the recent
problems Miss M appeared to have experienced repaying other similar lending ought to have
suggested to Wizzcash that Miss M wasnt in a good financial position. And Miss M had
returned for her second loan within three weeks of repaying loan one, and it was for a larger
amount. So, I think Wizzcash ought to have concluded that it was unlikely that she would be
able to repay this loan in a sustainable manner and it therefore shouldnt have been
provided.
Because of these factors, I dont think that Wizzcash shouldve provided Miss Ms second
loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M responded, saying, she accepted the provisional decision and didnt have anything 
new for me to consider. Wizzcash didnt respond by the deadline and so it hasnt added 
anything new. 
I therefore, dont see any reason why I should depart from the findings that I reached in my 
provisional decision. So I still think Wizzcash shouldnt have provided Miss Ms final loan. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Wizzcash should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Miss M, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. For example, having been declined this lending Miss M may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss M would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Wizzcashs liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Refund all interest, fees and charges from loan 2.
Add 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss M, calculated from
the date Miss M originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
Wizzcash should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file
about loan 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Wizzcash to deduct tax from this interest. Wizzcash
should give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Miss Ms 
complaint in part.
Emergency Cash Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman