DRN-3020797
The complaint
Miss Ws representative, who is the executor of the estate of the late Miss W, complained 
that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to Miss W irresponsibly and 
provided her with a loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
Everyday Loans provided a loan to Miss W as follows: 
Date taken Loan 
amountLoan 
repaymentTerm APR Loan status
28/09/2018 £7,000 £325.74 60 months 64.8% PAID
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She didnt think Everyday Loans should 
have provided Miss W with the loan and she asked Everyday Loans to put things right by 
paying redress and making any necessary amendments to Miss Ws credit file. 
Everyday Loans didnt agree with the investigators assessment. The complaint came to me 
to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Everyday Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Miss W would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If so, did Everyday 
Loans make a fair lending decision?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Everyday Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Miss W 
irresponsibly. The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment or 
affordability check. The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Everyday Loans had to 
think about whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Miss W.
Everyday Loans had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss W would be able repay this loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that 
Everyday Loans had to do, but it could consider a number of different things such as the 
loan amount, the length of the loan term, the repayment amounts and the borrowers overall 
financial circumstances.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Everyday Loans was required to establish whether Miss W could sustainably repay her loan 
 not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an 
indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically 
follow this is the case.
This is because the regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ws complaint.
Everyday Loans asked Miss W for information about her income and expenditure and it also 
obtained a credit report and reviewed bank statements from Miss W and used statistical 
information to help build a detailed picture of Miss Ws financial situation. Everyday Loans 
calculated the monthly payments Miss W was making to creditors and recorded a total 
amount of £522.83  which included Miss Ws mortgage monthly repayments (although that 
was unclear when our investigator first looked at this complaint).
Everyday Loans relied on statistical averages when assessing Miss Ws likely regular living 
costs and recorded this as £512 per month. It checked her employment and told us it looked 
at payslips (which I havent seen) and also took into account the information shown on her 
bank statements to work out what her total monthly income was based on her wages and a 
pension she received. Everyday Loans calculated that Miss W would be able to rely on a 
monthly income of around £1249.  
The figures Everyday Loans relied on showed Miss Ws monthly spending on her financial 
commitments and regular living expenses was around £1,034 when she applied for the loan. 
So Everyday Loans concluded that Miss W should have had disposable income of around 
£55 after taking into account her new repayment on this loan (bearing in mind that she was 
using part of the loan to repay an existing credit debt). 
From what Ive seen, I think the checks that Everyday Loans carried out before it agreed to 
lend to Miss W were, broadly speaking, reasonable and proportionate, in the circumstances. 
However, I dont think that Everyday Loans made a fair lending decision on this occasion.
I've taken into account everything that Everyday Loans said in response to our investigators 
view. I can see that there was some initial confusion about the way Everyday Loans had done its affordability calculations. Ive acknowledged that it did properly account for Miss Ws 
mortgage monthly repayments when working out its affordability assessment. And I have 
also noted that its disposable income calculation did not include Miss Ws income from a 
rental property  an amount of £310 per month which would boost Miss Ws disposable 
income figure up to £365 per month. 
But whilst I've thought carefully about what Everyday Loans has said, this doesnt 
affect my view overall. I think Everyday Loans was right not to include the rental 
income figure in its affordability assessment because I dont think that was necessarily 
income that Miss W would always be able to rely on over the whole 5 years loan term. 
I say this partly because the property wasnt hers alone  so I think its likely that the 
co-owner had some entitlement to the rental income. And rental income depends on a 
property being tenanted at all times and the tenant paying regularly  neither of which 
could be guaranteed. 
So I think Everyday Loans fairly assessed Miss Ws monthly income when it recorded 
an amount of approximately £1,249. Looking at the creditor repayments Everyday 
Loans recorded after reviewing the information it had gathered, this appears to show 
that after taking out this loan and using it to repay the credit debt Miss W told Everyday 
Loans it was intended to clear, Miss W would be replacing a payment of £166 with a 
single new monthly repayment for this loan of £325.74. This figure alone amounted to 
Miss W spending around 26% of her total monthly income just on this loan.
And, by my reckoning, she would be spending an additional amount of around £159 
each month on credit repayments as a result of taking out this loan  meaning that 
Miss Ws total spending on credit commitments was likely to be at least £682 each 
month. So she would be paying more than half her total income towards servicing 
debt.
I think this was such a significant proportion of Miss Ws monthly income Everyday 
Loans couldnt reasonably say that it was likely that Miss W would be able to repay the 
loan in a sustainable way.
I've also taken into account that this loan didnt significantly improve the amount of 
spare cash Miss W would have each month. Its unclear to me if the statistical figures 
Everyday Loans relied on included any buffer to take into account fluctuations in 
Miss Ws income or spending. Nonetheless, even if there was some flexibility in its 
calculations, this seems unlikely to me to have been sufficient to make up the shortfall 
I think Miss W would, in reality, have faced each month.
I think Everyday Loans ought reasonably to have been aware that taking this further, 
costly lending was unlikely to help Miss W. She was incurring additional monthly cost 
and increasing her indebtedness over the longer term. 
In these circumstances, Everyday Loans should reasonably have concluded that it was not 
fair to lend to Miss W.
So, I am planning on upholding Miss Ws complaint that she should not have been given the 
loan.
I havent seen anything which makes me think that Everyday Loans acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Miss W in some other way. But taking everything into account, I dont 
think Everyday Loans should have agreed to provide the loan to Miss W. As Miss W became further indebted with an expensive loan that she shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that she lost out as a result of what Everyday Loans did 
wrong. So, I think Everyday Loans needs to put things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Miss Ws representative agrees with what I've said and has nothing further to add.
Everyday Loans still disagrees. It mainly said that, not including Miss Ws mortgage 
repayment, she was spending around 30% of her total monthly income on her total personal 
debt with its loan acounting for around 26% of her total monthly income. 
It said the vast proportion of its loan was used for further spending and not debt 
consolidation.It was confident that the statistical evidence it relied on when calculating living 
expenses was a more accurate way to forecast living expenses than relying on borrower 
estimated figures- and it had included a buffer to allow for unexpected minor changes in 
spending. 
Everyday Loans acknowledged that the remaining income Miss W had left was on the lower 
side but said her higher than average percentage of disposable income meant that the loan 
was both affordable and sustainable over its term  which the repayment history supported.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Everyday Loans for responding to my provisional decision. 
Id like to assure Everyday Loans that I've thought carefully about everything again before 
coming to my final decision. And whilst I have highlighted above only what seem to me to be 
the main points of concern theyve raised, I have read thoroughly and taken into account 
everything they have asked me to reconsider.  
Everyday Loans hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think 
about this case. 
Id already considered all the main points mentioned above when thinking about my 
provisional decision. 
Given that the monthly repayments for this loan alone represented a commitment of around 
26% of her take home pay I think this was unlikely to be sustainable for her over the five 
year loan term. 
Miss Ws payment record on its own does not necessarily support Everyday Loans 
conclusion that she was able to make the loan repayments in a sustainable manner. Im not 
persuaded that having a higher than average percentage of disposable income makes any 
difference, especially when Everyday Loans agrees with me that overall Miss W was left with 
only limited disposable income after paying for all her expenses and covering her living 
costs.I appreciate that Everyday Loans takes a different view to me. But I still think its fair to 
uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained more fully in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss Ws estate to repay the capital amount of the loan as 
Miss W had the benefit of that lending. But she paid extra for lending that should not have 
been provided to her. In line with this Services approach, Miss Ws estate shouldnt repay 
more than the capital amount she borrowed. 
I dont propose to tell Everyday Loans to remove any adverse information recorded on 
Miss Ws credit file in relation to the loan. In the circumstances of this particular case this 
would unfairly impose an extra obligation on Everyday Loans when there is no benefit to the 
late Miss W (or her estate). As far as I can see, it doesnt look like Everyday Loans had any 
reason to record any negative information about this loan on her credit history in any event.  
So, Im planning to say that Everyday Loans should: 
refund everything Miss W paid over the principal loan amount and repay this to 
Miss Ws estate with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Miss Ws estate a certificate showing how much tax has been 
deducted if her executor asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
take the steps I've set out above to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of 
Miss W to accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman