DRN-1681078
The complaint
Mr G complains that U K Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) unfairly cancelled the 
auto-renewal of his car insurance.
What happened
Mr G has had car insurance with Direct Line since 2001. He understood the policy to be set 
to auto-renew each year.
In November 2018, Mr G was pulled over by the police and told he was driving without 
insurance. He didn't see how that could be the case given his policy auto-renews using his 
direct debit payment instructions.
But, on later investigation he discovered payment wasn't taken and his policy had lapsed in 
July 2018.
Mr G complained to Direct Line about this as he didn't recall any communication to say his 
policy wouldn't be auto-renewing. Direct Line said they'd sent Mr G three letters about the 
renewal of the policy, so they felt they'd done enough to inform him of the situation. Mr G 
said he didn't receive any of those letters and so brought his complaint to our service.
An investigator here looked into Mr G's concerns. They were satisfied Mr G's policy wouldn't 
always auto-renew, and in fact it hadn't done so the previous year either. Mr G didn't agree. 
He questioned whether Direct Line's evidence could be relied upon and said the policy terms 
referring to the possibility of not auto-renewing may be unfair.
The complaint couldn't be resolved so it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'm sorry to disappoint Mr G but I've reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator, 
for largely the same reasons.
I don't think what happened before, or after, 2018's non-renewal is decisive in this case. 
From what I've seen, Mr G's policy sometimes auto-renewed and sometimes didn't. And the 
fact that a policy may not auto-renew is confirmed in the policy wording as follows:
"It is not possible to offer automatic renewal in all circumstances, for example we may need 
to discuss your renewal invite with you or your payment method may change.
Your renewal invite will advise if your policy will be automatically renewed or if you need to 
call us."
Direct Line has provided screen shots to show that letters were sent to Mr G about the need 
to contact them to renew. I appreciate Mr G has questioned the reliability of this evidence, but I'm satisfied it can be relied upon. From what I've seen the screen shots appear to be an 
accurate record of Mr G's dealings with them and there's very little reason for me to think 
otherwise.
I also note that Mr G explained how the first half of 2018, so the months leading up to the 
renewal, was difficult for him and that he didn't notice the usual payment not being taken. 
Given what Mr G has said I think it's possible he might've overlooked the letters due to his 
mind being on other things, and as he thought his insurance auto-renewed he may have just 
felt any letters from Direct Line didn't really need any attention at the time.
I accept it's possible none of the letters were received but given I believe they were sent, 
and Direct Line has Mr G's correct address, I think it's unlikely none of them were delivered. I 
understand what Mr G has said about the possibility of the system being corrupt at the time 
but, other than Mr G's assertion, I don't think there's enough for me to conclude that was the 
case.
It may also be helpful for me to say that many contracts of insurance, including the ones
Mr G has taken over the years with Direct Line, are 12 month contracts. They are not a 
promise to auto-renew indefinitely, nor are they a promise to renew at all. Sometimes 
insurers will decide they don't want to retain a customer, because their perception of risk has 
increased or their focus is on a different part of the market. In view of this I don't think it's 
unfair, or wrong, for Direct Line not to provide auto-renewal every year without question.
The important thing is that where Direct Line chooses not to offer auto-renewal, it makes this 
clear to its customers - so they know they have to take action to remain on cover. In this 
case, I believe Direct Line sent Mr G three letters to inform him his policy wouldn't auto-
renew, and I think that was sufficient. I can see why Mr G feels the addition of a phone call 
would've been better service but I don't think it's something Direct Line should have done in 
this case.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, it's my final decision that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Will Weston
Ombudsman