DRN-1548486
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are very unhappy with how Santander UK Plc processed their mortgage 
application. They were originally told they could borrow £324,999 but this was later reduced 
to £307,999 due to delays in the application being processed. 
What happened
In April 2019, Mr and Mrs R attended a mortgage application appointment with Santander. 
As a result of that meeting they were given a mortgage illustration for £324,999. They say 
they were told they could put an offer in on the property they wanted. 
They tried following up their appointment with calls and other appointments. But these were 
missed or the appointment slots double booked.  So their mortgage application wasn't 
submitted until sometime later. Mr and Mrs R say they were told that as their pay details 
were out of date, new payslips would need to be obtained, and they had to resubmit their 
application. After going through underwriting, Santander agreed to lend £307,999, less than 
the original mortgage illustration.   Mr and Mrs R complained about the service they received 
and that they were at risk of losing the property; they had to find an additional £15,000 as 
they had already put an offer in that had been accepted and incurred some costs. 
Santander apologised. It said a higher, incorrect, income amount was used on the original 
application but when the payslips were reviewed this wasn't correct ,and the application had 
to be amended as borrowing £324,999 wasn't affordable. It apologised that this hadn't been 
explained in depth and for the poor service it had given. In acknowledgement of that it 
offered £250 compensation. 
Our investigator was satisfied this fairly resolved the complaint. She explained the lower 
mortgage offer was based on lower income figures after Mrs R's income had been clarified. 
She didn't find it was wrong for Santander to offer a lower amount if the higher amount didn't 
meet its affordability criteria. 
But Mr R strongly argued that wasn't the reason the offer was lower. In summary, he says 
the application was delayed because the adviser felt attending to personal matters (a dog 
show) was more important than processing the mortgage application. He says he was told 
they had to supply new payslips as the previous ones were out of date and its because of 
the delays that the lending amount lowered. He now says if the reason is different he was 
lied to. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs R feel very strongly about this matter.  House buying is a stressful 
process, so if anything does go wrong during that, it can compound any stress further. 
Santander has already accepted that the application process didn't go as it should. It has 
apologised and offered Mr and Mrs R £250. I would only look to make an additional award if 
I felt that didn't fairly compensate them for the impact the errors had. Mr and Mrs R were buying a house together. They had a large deposit and were looking to 
borrow the remainder. During the initial meeting, the mortgage adviser recorded Mrs R's 
income as in excess of £31,500.  And based on that, combined with Mr R's income, 
Santander produced a mortgage illustration for £324,999. 
I understand Mr and Mrs R were left with the impression this was the amount they could 
borrow. But as with all mortgage applications, it has to be underwritten to make sure any 
lending is within the bank's risk tolerance and is affordable for the borrowers. Mortgage 
offers are not generally made until that has been completed and a survey/valuation has been 
carried out on the property. Either of these processes can mean that a mortgage offer is 
lower, or possibly not made at all. The mortgage illustration was not a guarantee of lending 
which is explained on the document.
I accept, as does Santander, that there were avoidable delays following that initial 
application. And to make matters worse, appointments were double booked. I do understand 
how incredibly frustrating that must have been. But having reviewed the evidence, and 
acknowledging that further pay information was requested, I disagree it was the delays that 
caused the mortgage offer to be lower than anticipated. 
Having reviewed the evidence available to me, there was a discrepancy between the annual 
pay recorded for Mrs R in the application and what salary was shown on her payslip; the 
application recorded over £31,500 but the payslip for month 12 showed a total gross salary 
of over £29,600 but with under £26,500 of that being taxable. And it was this that Santander 
needed clarifying. Although Mr R doesn't accept this, I have seen a copy of the information 
supplied by Mrs R's employer (dated May 2019) clarifying pay information and that additional 
disbursements such as overtime or allowances weren't guaranteed. I'm satisfied it was the 
lower income information which resulted in the mortgage offer being lower than originally 
illustrated. 
I don't think I could fairly find that Santander was wrong to base its lending decision on the 
correct information. And I'm mindful there are very strict rules and regulatory requirements 
for lenders when approving mortgages. So I would find it difficult to conclude Santander was 
wrong to limit its offer to what fell within its affordability criteria. 
But I do understand Mr and Mrs R's disappointment.  Not only that, I think this discrepancy 
ought to have been picked up during the initial application discussions. So I think Santander 
could have done better, as it acknowledged in its final response. 
It's difficult to know now what Mr and Mrs R would have done had the correct figures been 
used from the outset. I accept it is possible they might have looked at properties of a lower 
value. But they had already found a property they liked and wanted to put an offer in on. 
And rather than walking away, or renegotiating the purchase price, Mr and Mrs R chose to 
borrow the additional £15,000 needed to keep the property of their choice. I therefore don't 
find they have suffered a financial loss; they have the property they wanted and the costs 
they had incurred to that point, were costs they were always going to incur - valuations, legal 
fees etc.  
Overall, I'm not persuaded Santander was wrong when finalising the amount it was willing to 
lend. But all the parties accept  the service it provided during the application process fell 
short of what customers should reasonably expect, particularly through what everyone 
generally accepts is a stressful process. In the circumstances, I'm satisfied £250 is fair 
compensation for the additional time and trouble Mr and Mrs R were put to. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint as I'm satisfied Santander UK Plc has 
already fairly resolved it.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman