DRN-4110801
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Hastings Insurance Services Limited (Hastings) handled the 
renewal of his car insurance policy meaning that he had to pay more for a new policy. 
What happened
Mr M had a motor insurance policy arranged through Hastings as his broker which was due 
to renew in late November 2021.
Mr M didnt receive his usual renewal invitation by post. He wasnt able to access an email 
address used by Hastings to also send out the renewal details. 
Hastings cancelled the policy and wrote to Mr M.
Mr M was using his car continually, which was during a period when hed sadly lost a family 
member.
He called Hastings who told him that hed have to take out a new policy. His renewal was 
priced at £265.40, and the new policy was £434.69 (which included a fee of £12.50 for 
setting it up over the phone  which Hastings agreed to waive).
Mr M said he would struggle to afford to pay the amount. Hastings staff told him he could 
take the policy out and shop around for another policy.
Hastings also told him he could raise a complaint but that it wouldnt be upheld.
Mr M bought the policy. He remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint and upheld it. She thought Hastings had 
displayed a lack of empathy and its suggestion to take the policy, then shop around was 
poor and didnt take account of his needs. She said it should pay him £200 for his distress 
and inconvenience.
Both Mr M and Hastings accepted the view. But Hastings didnt contact Mr M or make 
payment. Because Hastings didnt pay Mr M, this case has been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Im very sorry to hear about Mr Ms loss in late 2021 and Id like to take this opportunity to 
extend him my best wishes.
Im also very conscious that this matter continues far later than Id have expected. Id expect 
that by issuing this final decision, Hastings will close the matter in the proper way by making 
a speedy payment to Mr M.
Our investigator has provided both parties with an extensive breakdown of what took place 
during November and December 2021. Ive reviewed the whole file and Ive listened to the 
calls Mr M made in December 2021 where he explained his situation of recent loss and 
confusion. 
It seems to me that some of the Hastings staff he spoke with showed little sympathy for him. 
Their focus seems to be on him taking out the new policy. Mr Ms car was uninsured when 
he had those conversations, so I can understand why getting cover started was important, 
but Mr M is very clear in those conversations about what had happened in his family and that 
he was having to cope with those events.
I think its clear that Mr M should have been recognised as a vulnerable customer and 
treated accordingly. He was sold a new policy and told he could cancel it while he arranged 
another policy from another company. This is while dealing with bereavement and arranging 
a funeral. 
During one of the conversations, Mr M says hes unhappy. Hastings call handler says he 
can make a complaint, but that the complaint wouldnt be upheld. Mr M received an email 
about a week later telling him that this complaint had been resolved.
I think this is very poor service from Hastings.
Ive also looked at Hastings renewal process, and I can see it reasonably sent Mr M his 
details by two methods, which is good practice. I know Mr M says he didnt receive the 
postal version, but I cant say thats Hastings fault. 
Mr M has also said he thought the policy was set to auto-renew. Ive not seen confirmation of 
this either way, but Hastings discovered that itd turned off auto-renewal on Mr Ms policy in 
2018 and I can see thats noted on the 2021 documents that Mr M didnt receive. So I think 
its more likely than not that his policy wasnt set to auto-renew, and I cant say Hastings has 
acted unfairly.
Taking everything into account, I think Hastings service has been poor. It did provide Mr M 
with the cover he needed, but the service it provided was poor and didnt take account of his 
circumstances.
Im mindful of the passage of time due to Hastings lack of response to our investigators 
view. So I think the logical thing to do is to uphold this complaint and award £200 for Mr Ms 
distress and inconvenience due to Hastings poor service. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I direct Hastings Insurance Services 
Limited to pay Mr M £200 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
Hastings Insurance Services Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman