DRN-1733828
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy about how Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) dealt with a warranty 
claim for a fault with her cooker.
What happened
Mrs S made a claim on her cooker warranty. Engineers visited, but it wasnt possible to 
repair the cooker in a reasonable timescale. Mrs S then agreed with D&G that the cooker 
would be replaced for a cash settlement of £569. This was less than her current cooker had 
cost, but D&G assured her that she would be able to get a cooker with the same functionality 
for that amount.
The cooker arrived after Christmas, which meant she had to cancel her Christmas plans. 
The cooker also didnt have an automatic timer function, which was an important function of 
her previous cooker. When the new cooker was installed, the independent engineer told Mrs 
S there was a gas leak, which was probably caused by one of the D&G engineers. 
Mrs S complained to D&G. It partially upheld her complaint. It said the oven was a 
reasonable alternative to the one she previously had. It wasnt responsible for the gas leak 
because the company that installed the new cooker said the leak was from a part of the 
previous cooker that its engineers wouldnt have needed to touch. It gave Mrs S £50 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Mrs S then provided D&G with an email from the independent engineer saying that in his 
view the leak had been caused when the oven was disconnected from the gas supply. D&G 
gave Mrs S £110, which was the cost of the cooker installation and repairing the leak.
Mrs S complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt that 
the way D&G had dealt with each of the issues was fair and that at times it had gone beyond 
its terms and conditions to address the issues raised.
As Mrs S didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first issue to consider is how D&G dealt with trying to repair the cooker. Mrs S had only 
taken out the warranty a short time before and it was still within the 30 day wait period 
before the warranty came into force, which meant that a claim couldnt be made. D&G 
offered Mrs S a different policy, which would come into effect immediately. Mrs S told D&G 
that she hadnt been told about the wait period when she was sold the original warranty. 
D&G accepted this and agreed to make the repair under the original warranty once the 30 
day period was up because Mrs S had access to another cooker in the meantime.
The engineer visited earlier than the 30 day period, diagnosed the problem and ordered 
replacement parts. When another engineer visited to install the new parts, it turned out the wrong parts had been ordered. New parts arrived, but D&G said that it couldnt guarantee 
that the repair would be done before Christmas. It also couldnt source a suitable 
replacement through its suppliers. It therefore offered Mrs S a cash settlement to buy a new 
cooker, rather than wait for a repair. Mrs S accepted the cash offer and D&G made the 
payment to her the next day.
In terms of how D&G dealt with the claim, it clearly was a mistake to order the wrong parts. 
However, D&G then gave Mrs S the option of a cash settlement for a new cooker to try and 
resolve the issue quickly, which I think was reasonable in the circumstances.
However, Im aware that Mrs S is concerned about the amount offered in the cash 
settlement and that the new cooker didnt have the same features as the one she previously 
had.
D&G has explained that it decided £569 was a reasonable figure based on the retail price of 
a similar cooker to Mrs Ss. Ive looked at the cost of ovens of the same brand and am 
satisfied that it is possible to buy similar ovens to the one Mrs S owned for that amount. I 
therefore think this was a reasonable amount to offer.
Mrs S has said that she wanted a gas cooker with an automatic timer. She said that she had 
spoken to the manufacturer and described her requirements and, on the basis of that 
conversation, she bought the cooker as she thought it met her needs. However, it turned out 
that the gas cooker had a different type of timer. When Mrs S looked into this further, she 
found that her preferred brand no longer made gas cookers with this feature. I can 
understand that Mrs S wasnt happy about this, but as it was a cash settlement, the choice of 
brand and preferred features was for Mrs S to make based on what was available from 
retailers. Im therefore satisfied that D&G wasnt responsible for the type of cooker that Mrs 
S bought and doesnt need to replace it.
Mrs S also said that the D&G engineer caused a gas leak. She provided an email from an 
independent engineer that was written shortly after the visit. This said:  
We [were] called out to fit replacement gas cooker, on arrival we carried out a tightness test 
of gas pipe work and found a gas escape far in excess of current tolerance levels, I asked if 
any smell of gas had been noticed, which the answer was yes, since the old gas cooker was 
disconnected, with this information we checked the pipe work and cooker bayonet fitting, the 
escape was found at the cooker bayonet, a replacement bayonet was fitted as a precaution 
and the gas supply was checked for leaks and no leaks detected.
In my opinion when the gas cooker was disconnected the pipe work/bayonet must have 
been disturbed, but this should have been discovered when the tightness tests [were] carried 
out on arrival and departure of the visit.
I asked D&G for its response to Mrs Ss view that it had caused a gas leak. It said the first 
engineer didnt disconnect the gas supply and that, following that visit, Mrs S didnt report a 
smell of gas to the second engineer. As the wrong parts had been ordered, the second 
engineer rebooked the visit and disconnected the gas and electricity supply to the cooker.
D&G explained how the cooker was disconnected and that the engineer tested for leaks and 
didnt find any and that a smell of gas would have alerted the engineer to a leak. It confirmed 
that all procedures were carried out in line with the relevant regulations.
D&G also said that the smell of gas would have been evident in the house and that if Mrs S 
had concerns she should have reported it to Gas Emergency. It also suggested that there 
was a possibility that the independent engineer caused the leak when he came to install the new cooker. D&G also said that the symptoms Mrs S described that she and her daughter 
had were normally related to carbon monoxide, rather than a gas leak.
Ive thought about the evidence provided by both the independent engineer and D&G and 
both are compelling. However, I need to decide whether there is sufficient evidence to 
conclude that the work carried out by D&G resulted in a gas leak. My view is that there isnt. 
Although there is a report from the independent engineer that he found a gas leak and that, 
in his opinion, this happened when the gas cooker was disconnected, he wasnt there when 
it was disconnected. He also said that the gas leak should have been picked up when the 
tightness tests were carried out at the start and end of D&Gs visit. 
For D&G to have caused the gas leak, the engineer would have needed to disturb the 
bayonet. However, he didnt need to do anything with this as part of the disconnection 
process. The gas safety checks also didnt highlight an issue and the engineer himself didnt 
notice a smell of gas. I would need strong evidence for me to conclude with any certainty 
that D&G caused the gas leak and, on the basis of what I have seen, I dont think there is 
sufficient evidence for me to come to that conclusion.
I think that D&G offered Mrs S reasonable compensation for the problems it was responsible 
for and I dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman