DRN-2323022
The complaint
Ms S complains about Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) over its handling of her claim for 
damage to her sofa.   
What happened
Ms S purchased a leather sofa in September 2018. At the point of sale, she took out an 
insurance policy for the sofa to insure against accidental damage and staining. 
In July 2019, Ms S submitted a claim. This was for an ink mark on the sofa cushion, and 
scratches from clothing. 
The claim was accepted and Amtrust attended Ms Ss property to inspect the sofa. 
Amtrust carried out repairs to the areas of staining and scratches. These repairs were not 
successful. 
Amtrust offered to replace the cushion covers which were damaged and provided 
replacement material. 
Ms S did not accept the replacement covers as the material used was lighter than the 
remainder of her sofa. She felt that replacing the damaged cushions would create a two-tone 
effect and it would not have a consistent appearance. 
Ms S submitted a complaint to Amtrust. Amtrust considers that the replacement parts offered 
are within its tolerance levels for colour matching, relying on the opinion of its technicians. 
Amtrust referred to its policy terms which stated that it did not guarantee exact matches of 
colour, grain, sheen or pattern, but that replacement parts will be matched to an 
inconspicuous area of the item. It also stated that Amtrusts liability was limited to the best 
endeavours of its technicians. 
Amtrust offered Ms S the replacement or alternatively a cash settlement of £240, being the 
cost of the repair. 
Ms S was unhappy with this and contacted us.
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties. This 
was that there was a significant colour difference between the sofa and the replacement part 
offered. 
Our investigator considered that this was not a close match and that as the colour was 
different it was not reasonable to limit the offer of replacement to only the damaged parts, or 
the cost of replacing those damaged parts. He therefore thought that Amtrust should replace 
the entire cover of the sofa, as one product, or to settle the claim by paying Ms S an amount 
equivalent to the purchase price of the sofa so that she could replace the sofa herself. 
Amtrust has not accepted that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
The investigator sought additional information from Amtrust, including how it was decided 
that a colour or texture match of a replacement part was within tolerance. Amtrust advised 
that there is no colour chart or objective measure but this decision relied upon the expertise 
of its technicians.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also looked at the photographs provided by both Amtrust and Ms S, of the offered 
replacement part and can see a marked difference in colour between the replacement and 
the existing sofa cushions. 
Amtrust has referred to its terms and conditions which explain that it cannot guarantee an 
exact match in colour, grain, pattern or sheen in a replacement, and it considers that the 
replacement cover offered is a sufficiently close match to make the offer reasonable. 
Alternatively, Amtrust considers that its offer of a cash settlement should be limited to the 
cost of replacing the part (seat cover) which was damaged. 
Amtrust has pointed out that no expert report has been produced to counter the view of the 
technician, that the colour is a close enough match. They therefore think that the technicians 
view should prevail. 
I do not agree in this case as a clear difference in colour can be observed in photographs, 
even without an expert opinion. 
I understand that exact matches cannot be guaranteed as slight differences in pigments and 
fabric will inevitably exist. The terms do afford Amtrust some discretion when carrying out 
repairs and replacement, but this needs to be exercised reasonably and with regard to the 
overarching purpose of the insurance contract. This is to preserve the appearance of the 
sofa, against stains and accidental damage, and to keep the sofa looking like a complete 
item.
Beyond this, Amtrust does not appear to apply an objective criteria to the assessment of 
colour. It is therefore difficult to place weight on the assessment as this could be affected by 
conditions and lighting during the technicians visit.   
The sofa insured has a number of attached cushions and head, arm and foot rests. These all 
appear to be well maintained, but with some fading in colour over the year since purchase. 
The damaged cushions are central to the sofa and conspicuous so to replace one or two 
cushions with replacements in a slightly different colour would result in a substantial impact 
upon the appearance of the sofa. 
The stain damage is of the type anticipated by the cover, and I therefore understand why Ms 
S feels that this is the type of situation to which the insurances promise to repair or replace 
would apply. I understand why she is reluctant to accept the replacement offered when this 
would affect the appearance of the sofa, or to accept the cash settlement when this is far 
less than the cost of the sofa and would not allow her to remedy the problem. 
Whilst I appreciate that the terms do allow Amtrust to determine the settlement offered and 
whether this is for a replacement part or whole product, the marketing material and terms for 
the insurance cover say that where a satisfactory repair is not possible then [Amtrust] will 
replace the damaged product. I consider that the replacement part offered is not satisfactory in these circumstances and I 
agree with my colleague that Ms S is entitled to reject it. 
For these reasons, I agree with the investigators view and I uphold Ms Ss complaint. 
Putting things right
The investigator considered that Amtrust should replace the covers on all visible parts of the 
sofa, or alternatively offer Ms S the equivalent of the purchase price of the sofa so that she 
can replace it. 
I agree with these options, but also consider that Amtrust can alternatively choose to replace 
the sofa, in discussion with Ms S, so that it may benefit from any cost savings which it can 
access. 
Amtrust can decide which of these options it wishes to pursue. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold Ms Ss complaint and direct Amtrust Europe Limited 
to:
Replace the covering material on all visible parts of the sofa with a matching material, 
close to the existing material; or
To pay to Ms S the purchase price of the sofa as settlement of her claim; or
To obtain a replacement sofa of similar specification, in discussion with Ms S.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman