DRN-2652540
The complaint
Mr N complains that West Bromwich Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1987. The policy was probably taken out in 
one of the societys branches. The policy was designed to cover Mr Ns mortgage payments 
and it provided him with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr N didnt agree. 
He said, in summary, that:
It was made clear to him that he had to take the PPI for his mortgage application to be 
successful. This is made clear in the special conditions set out in the mortgage offer. 
His mortgage offer was void without the PPI being in place.
He wouldnt have taken the PPI if he hadnt been told he had to have it. He has had 
numerous credit cards and other financial agreements over the years and has never 
taken PPI.
Its likely West Bromwich, or its employees, gained commission from the sale of PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ns complaint.
West Bromwich has very limited paperwork from the time of the sale so doesnt have a full 
record of what took place, or the terms of the policy. This isnt unreasonable or unsurprising 
given this took place so long ago and the mortgage was redeemed more than 20 years ago. 
In cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, to decide what is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ns complaint for the following reasons:
Mr N told us that he can clearly remember being told he was required to take the PPI and 
that his mortgage application wouldnt be accepted without it. He says he remembers this 
conversation clearly because it was his first mortgage. Ive thought carefully about Mr Ns 
comments, but I have to take into account how long ago the sale was and how this might 
impact what he recalls. Without stronger evidence to show West Bromwich didnt make it 
clear the PPI was optional and Mr N didnt have to take it out, I cant fairly uphold the 
complaint based on his recollections.
So Ive gone onto consider the paperwork that would have been completed at the time.
Mr N would have filled out a PPI application form  separate from the mortgage application. 
So I think it would have been reasonably clear that the PPI was a separate product.
The mortgage offer lists several Special Conditions which apply to the mortgage offer. One 
of these is that:
The monthly repayments include Loan Protection scheme cover.
Mr N says this shows the PPI was a condition of the mortgage and that the offer would have 
been void without it. I dont agree. Im not persuaded that West Bromwich didnt make it 
reasonably clear that the PPI was optional during the meeting. It was during the meeting that 
Mr N chose to take the PPI. And that was then reflected in the mortgage offer. I can see 
there were a number of conditions that may have been attached to a mortgage offer. If Mr N 
had declined the PPI, then this condition would not have been attached to his offer  theres 
nothing to suggest that he wouldnt have been offered a mortgage without PPI.
Overall, I think West Bromwich made it reasonably clear that the PPI was optional and that 
Mr N chose to take it. 
West Bromwich cant say for sure if it recommended the policy to Mr N. In the 
circumstances, I think its fair that I consider this complaint to the higher standard of an 
advised sale. That means West Bromwich had to make sure the policy was suitable for 
Mr N.
It doesnt look like the PPI was unsuitable based on what Ive seen of Mr Ns circumstances 
at the time. I say this because:
Mr N was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the likely terms and 
conditions.
Mr N cant recall whether he would have received any pay from his employer if he 
couldnt work due to sickness or an accident. But he thinks he may have had some 
saving that he could rely on. From what we know about PPI policies, this one would have 
paid out for up to at least 12 months in the event of a successful claim for accident or 
sickness in addition to any sick pay Mr N would have received. It also covered him if hed 
become unemployed. The mortgage was a significant long-term financial commitment 
and Mr Ns home was at risk if he didnt keep up with the repayments. So I think the PPI 
could have been a useful benefit, in addition to Mr Ns existing arrangements.
Mr N says he could have relied on financial help from family and friends. But this wasnt 
a guaranteed source of income, so does not change my conclusion.
Mr N also says he didnt take PPI on any other financial products, including credit cards. 
But he may have decided that he could have managed meet the repayments for these 
products if he was unable to work. The mortgage payments, as noted earlier, were a 
more significant sum than his credit card payments would have been. And the 
consequences of non-payment would have had a greater impact on him.
Mr N wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As he could have benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely he needed 
better information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Its not clear whether cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr N before he 
agreed to purchase it. The mortgage offer says the cost is included in the monthly 
mortgage payment figure, but it isnt set out separately. So I think its likely Mr N wasnt 
told the cost. For this reason, I have considered whether clearer information about the 
cost would have affected Mr Ns decision to purchase the policy. He would have known 
he would have to pay something for it. The policy was competitively priced and 
apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely he would have made a different decision if 
better information about the cost had been provided.
Mr N says its likely that West Bromwich, or its employees, would have received 
commission for the sale of PPI. And I accept thats possible. But it doesnt make a 
difference to my decision here  because Ive found the policy was suitable for Mr N.
Its possible the information the society gave Mr N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think West Bromwichs 
recommendation was unsuitable and I dont think Mr N would have made a different decision 
about taking out the policy if better information had been provided to him  overall, I think he 
would still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman