DRN-4217025
The complaint
Mr S complains that an application to supply internet was declined due to Equifax Limiteds 
actions. 
What happened
In February 2023 Mr S applied to a business Ill call V for an internet connection. But the 
application was declined and  S has explained that V told him the decision was made 
because Equifax had failed his credit check. Mr S says V referred him back to the credit 
reference agencies to get an explanation of why his application had failed. 
Mr S went on to contact Equifax about Vs decision and raised a complaint. Mr S asked why 
Equifax was buying and selling his personal information and what details were shared with V 
that led to his application being declined. Mr S also asked how to remove all information 
from Equifaxs systems and asked it to pay him £50 he lost out on as a result of his 
application being declined. 
Equifax issued a final response on 30 April 2023 but didnt uphold Mr S complaint. Equifax 
said that because Mr S hadnt generated a credit report it couldnt view the specifics of the 
information on his credit file. Equifax gave Mr S guidance on how to obtain a full copy of his 
credit file. Equifax also said it hadnt declined an application on Vs behalf. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr S complaint. They thought Equifax had dealt with 
Mr S case fairly and didnt ask it to take any further action. Mr S asked to appeal and said 
he was unwilling to supply further personal information to Equifax in order to obtain his credit 
report. Mr S added that he doesnt feel Equifax has a right to hold personal information about 
him without his consent. Mr S added that the investigator hadnt told him how to remove all 
his personal information from Equifaxs systems. As Mr S asked to appeal, his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has quoted correspondence he received from V when his application to obtain internet 
was declined. I appreciate that V advised Mr S that a credit reference agency was 
responsible for his application being declined. But I havent seen any evidence that shows 
Equifax processed an application for internet on Vs behalf or that it was involved in its 
decision not to proceed. I appreciate thats at odds with what V told Mr S when the 
application was turned down. But I can only look at Equifaxs actions in this decision. 
Equifaxs final response explains that businesses will ultimately decide whether to approve 
an application based on their own criteria. I think thats a reasonable point. Equifax may be 
contacted by a business to obtain information about an applicants circumstances and 
financial situation at the time of an application. But its generally then up to the business to 
decide whether to proceed based on the information obtained. I can see Mr S has tried to 
get a better understanding of why V declined to proceed which is why he was referred to the 
credit reference agencies. But theres no evidence that shows Equifax was the credit 
reference agency V contacted to obtain information about Mr S or that it played a direct role 
in his application being declined. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I havent seen anything that 
shows Equifax treated him unfairly in terms of the application he made with V. 
Mr S has questioned the basis on which Equifax holds information about him despite not 
receiving his direct consent to do so. The Information Commissioners Office, the body that 
looks at how businesses handle information, gives the following guidance on its website: 
Do the CRAs need my consent to hold all this information on me? 
No. Data protection law doesnt actually require the CRAs, or any other organisation, to have 
your consent before they are allowed to process your personal data. They can use it without 
consent if they have a valid reason and as long as you have been told what is going to 
happen to your data. These reasons are known in the law as a lawful basis, and there are 
six lawful bases organisations can use.
So whilst I understand why Mr S feels Equifax doesnt have his consent to hold and process 
personal information in his name, Im satisfied there is provision for it to do so taking the 
relevant laws it operates under into account. The Information Commissioners Offices 
website contains a more detailed explanation of how credit reference agencies are obliged to 
hold and process information. Mr S may wish to look at the information provided to get a 
more detailed picture of what Equifax can and cant do with his information. But having taken 
the available information into account, I havent been persuaded Equifax has made mistakes 
in terms of the way Mr S information has been processed. 
Mr S asked the investigator how to remove his information from Equifaxs systems. As Ive 
said above, Equifax doesnt require Mr S consent to process his information. But, Mr S has 
the right to object to Equifax using his personal information for direct marketing purposes. 
Equifax can also ensure any information it holds relating to a membership, or account, held 
directly with it can be deleted on request. Details of the basis on which Equifax holds 
information and what can be deleted can be found on its website. 
I can see Equifax has also advised Mr S what he needs to do to get a copy of his statutory 
credit report. In response to the investigator Mr S has pointed out that to do so requires him 
to supply personal information and that hes unwilling to do so. I understand Mr S may not be 
willing to supply these details to Equifax. But I think its fair to say Equifax already has the 
identifying information its asking Mr S to confirm. And Equifax has to ensure its asking 
relevant security questions before sharing a credit report. I leave it to Mr S to decide whether 
he wants to obtain a copy of his credit report by answering Equifaxs questions. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but as Im satisfied Equifax dealt with his complaint fairly Im not 
telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman