DRN-4099980
The complaint
Mr R complains that PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, lent to him when he could 
not afford it. 
What happened
Mr R took one loan from Mr Lender which was on 1 July 2022 and for £200. The repayments 
were over six months and were variable, meaning that the first two repayments were higher 
at £73.33 and £74.56 respectively. After that the repayments reduced, as the interest 
element got smaller, until the sixth repayment was for £40.62 due on 23 December 2022.
Mr R went into a repayment plan relatively soon after taking the loan. I am unsure whether 
the loan remains outstanding at the time of writing. In April 2023 Mr R did still owe Mr Lender 
money.
Mr R started the complaint with Mr Lender and he received its final response letter (FRL) 
dated 27 September 2022. It did not uphold his complaint and after Mr R had referred it to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service one of our adjudicators held the same view.
Mr Lender agreed with that outcome, Mr R disagreed and the unresolved complaint was 
passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender had to assess the lending to check if Mr R could afford to pay back the amount 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. Mr Lenders checks couldve considered several different things, such 
as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Rs income and 
expenditure. 
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Mr Lender should have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr R. 
These factors include:
Mr R having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr R having many loans and/or having these loans over a long
period (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr R coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr R. But this is not applicable to 
Mr Rs circumstances as he took one loan only. 
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr R could sustainably repay the loan  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr R was able to repay 
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Rs complaint. Ive decided not to uphold the complaint 
and I explain why here. 
This was Mr Rs application for a modest value loan - £200  and it was the first he had 
made to Mr Lender. So, it was entitled to rely on the information Mr R gave to it in the 
application. The main element of Mr Rs submissions to us after hed received our 
adjudicators view was that he had other outgoings about which Mr Lender ought to have 
known  namely money to a family member and money spent on a childs clothes. And that 
the £511 disposable income would have gone on fuel and food. Plus, Mr R has said that 
Mr Lender ought to have known from the credit card debts and the other loans he had that 
his outgoings were more than they were.
Using the Mr Lender records, Mr R had declared to Mr Lender as follows:
Net income of £2,000 each month.
Monthly outgoings of mortgage/rent £300, Electricity /gas/water £61, 
food/travel £267, telecoms £33, council tax £98, loans (including short term) £600, 
other regular outgoings £130. 
So, his total expenditure was £1,489 each month which still left Mr R with around £511 a 
month. And looking at the repayment schedule for the loan then it would have looked 
affordable. 
Mr Lender did not need to carry out a credit search under the irresponsible lending 
requirements the FCA expected of regulated firms. But Mr Lender did do that and as Mr R 
had already volunteered that his repayments to other credit commitments included £600 a 
month then it seems that Mr Lender already knew what he was repaying to those creditors. 
Ive received no evidence from Mr R that he was paying more than that.  
Mr Lender had received no indication from the credit search it carried out that Mr R was in 
any insolvency arrangement or had any recent County Court Judgments (CCJs) or had 
recently been bankrupt or anything of that nature. 
Mr R has said:To simply ask one person to fill in a couple of box [sic] of what the outgoings are, 
I would say is a failure to carry out proper checks.
I disagree. Mr Lender asked Mr R for information and then carried out more research. If Mr R 
felt that he had more outgoings then use of the listed category other regular outgoings likely 
would have been the appropriate one to use. So, I do not think that the application process 
lack of detail is a persuasive one. 
For a £200 first loan I would not have expected Mr Lender to have done more. It would have 
been disproportionate to expect Mr Lender to have asked for and reviewed Mr Rs bank 
account statements. 
I do not uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman