DRN-1345387
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the way in which LCC Trans-Sending Limited (trading as Small World 
Financial Services) handled the compliance requirements for his money transfers to Nigeria.
What happened
Mr S experienced problems with some money transfers whilst on a trip to Nigeria. Due to the 
amounts involved and his previous transaction history, LCC's compliance team required that 
Mr S provide them with a completed compliance form and proof of the source of his funds.
Our investigator has set out the background to this complaint in detail in her opinions. So I 
don't propose to repeat it here. But Mr S' main concern is that he wasn't given any prior 
warning that further documentation would be needed before he set off for an area of Nigeria 
where there was no internet access. When he got there and checked if the funds had been 
received, he found that one of the transactions hadn't gone through.
On contacting LCC by phone, he was told that the compliance team required further 
information from him. As he had no internet access, he had to travel over three hours back 
to his hotel to provide the required documents. For subsequent transfers, Mr S was also 
required to provide further compliance documentation on each occasion.
Our investigator looked into Mr S' complaint but didn't recommend that it be upheld. Whilst 
she though LCC could have been clearer in some of its correspondence, she didn't think that 
what LCC had asked for or the way that it handled the compliance process had been unfair 
or unreasonable.
Mr S didn't agree and requested an ombudsman's review and decision on his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S will be disappointed to hear that I won't be upholding his complaint. And that's for 
substantially the same reasons as our investigator. I'll explain why.
I wholly appreciate the difficult time that Mr S had whilst he was in Nigeria. And I was sorry 
to hear that he lost a property deal as a result of the delays in his payments. But having 
listened to the calls and reviewed the correspondence, I can't say that LCC's requests for 
additional documentation were unreasonable or that it's handling of the requests amounted 
to unfair treatment.
The difficulty with the transfers that Mr S had requested were that, in total, they were for 
significantly larger amounts than some of his previous transfers. So they triggered 
LCC's compliance requirements, in particular because the annual thresholds that it imposes 
on app-based transactions to Nigeria had been reached. These checks are intended to 
ensure that the source of funds is verifiably identified and are a regulatory requirement that 
LCC has to comply with.I understand that Mr S isn't all that worried about LCC's requirements for him to prove the 
source of the funds, but more the manner and timing in which it did so. The problem was that 
the LCC mobile app that Mr S was using, didn't warn him in advance that he may need to 
provide further information. I've seen the type of warnings that Mr S has had before. And I 
understand that these didn't appear on the app when Mr S first processed the transactions, 
before he left the hotel at which he'd had internet service.
It was only when he got to the remote location that he found out that more was required. I 
sympathise with Mr S for the trouble that he had. But I can't hold LCC responsible for the 
fact that Mr S didn't have a consistent internet connection, particularly as it does appear to 
have contacted him by email to request the further documents. The compliance team only 
look at proposed transfers after they've been requested. And these transactions were 
escalated for review due to LCC's internal controls. So the app wouldn't immediately have 
indicated that anything else was needed.
LCC's terms and conditions of business, which govern its relationship with Mr S, do allow it 
to ask for additional information and I don't think the requests that it made in this case were 
unreasonable. The timing was of course unfortunate and Mr S was put to the trouble of 
having to return to the hotel to provide the information required. But that's not something that 
I think LCC needs to compensate him for.
Mr S was also asked for similar documentation again over the next few weeks for additional 
transfers that he wanted to make. LCC did tell him that this was likely to be the case and 
whilst I understand why Mr S may have considered the requests to be excessive, given the 
strict regulatory requirements on LCC, I don't think it acted unreasonably in requesting what 
it did.
My final decision
I don't uphold Mr S' complaint and I won't be requiring that LCC Trans-Sending Limited do 
anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
James Kennard
Ombudsman