DRN-3855263
The complaint
Mr D complains that Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) gave him unsuitable advice to 
transfer his Personal Pension (PP) to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). 
What happened
In November 2012, Portal advised Mr D to transfer his PP to a SIPP. The fact find from the 
time said that Mr D was aged 46, single and self-employed earning £10,000 per year. It said 
he lived in a property he owned, worth around £400,000 and had no savings. And that he 
had outstanding debts/loans totalling around £14,000. The suitability report notes Mr D had a 
PP with a transfer value of £18,318 and that he wanted the option to access his benefits 
when he turned 55. 
Portal carried out a risk-profiling exercise and said in the suitability report that Mr D had an 
adventurous attitude to risk (ATR). It recommended he transfer his PP into a SIPP and that 
he invest in the following:
Raithwaites Hypa Fund  40%
Cool Blue Samui Fund  17.5%
Venture Oil International  22.5%
EOS Solar Energy  7.5%
Cash Deposit  12.5%
Mr D accepted Portals advice, so the SIPP was established and the value of his PP was 
invested in line with its recommendations. 
On 13 March 2021, Mr D complained to Portal, unhappy he hasnt been able to withdraw his 
pension upon turning 55 in the way he wanted to as hes been told it has no value, despite 
being advised it would grow by at least 10% per year. 
Portal responded on 10 May 2021, saying that Mr D had made his complaint too late for our 
Service to consider it. It said he ought to have been aware he had cause for complaint from 
the letters it sent him between 2015 and 2017, which provided him with updates about his 
pension, its value and made him aware his investment in Raithwaite Hypa wasnt performing 
as expected. And when considering Mr D hasnt received any income from his investments 
since November 2013. 
On 20 May 2021, Mr D brought his complaint to our service, adding that he didnt receive the 
letters Portals said it sent him. One of our investigators thought Mr Ds complaint had been 
made in time. He didnt think the correspondence was enough to trigger awareness that     
Mr D had cause to complain about the advice. He said Portals letters reassured Mr D that 
hed receive a return of all capital invested and interest. He said some fluctuations in the 
valuation was to be expected and that as Mr D wasnt retiring at the time he didnt require 
access to his funds. And that while the nil valuation from Mr Ds SIPP provider could have 
caused him concern, Portal gave an explanation for this and further reassured Mr D. 
Portal didnt agree. It said that despite any reassurances it gave Mr D ought to have been 
aware he had cause for complaint from his SIPP statement in October 2017, as this showed 
the value of his overall fund had dropped by around £6,400. 
So Mr Ds complaints been referred to me for a decision. I sent Mr D and Portal a 
provisional decision, letting know I intend to say his complaint has been made in time, which 
means we can consider it, and that I intend to uphold, for largely the same reasons that Ive 
detailed below. Neither Mr D nor Portal responded, so I see no reason to depart from these 
findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jurisdiction
The rules our service is bound by, known as the Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules - found in 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook - say in DISP 2.8.2R that, unless the business 
consents (Portal hasnt), we cant consider a complaint if its referred to us: 
More than six years after the event complained of; or (if later) 
more than three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or 
ought reasonably to have become aware) they had cause for complaint. 
That is, unless the complainant referred the complaint to the business or our Service within 
that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of this having been 
received. 
The event complained of  the advice Mr D was given to make high risk investments after 
being advised to switch his PP, which he says resulted in a loss  took place in 2012. And, 
as Mr D didnt raise this with Portal and then our service until 2021, it has been referred to us 
more than six years after the event occurred. This means I have to decide if Mr D was 
aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, he had cause for complaint more than 
three years before he complained to Portal.   
Mr D told us he made his complaint in early 2021 when he wasnt able to access his pension 
benefits at 55. While Mr D referred his complaint to us within three years of that, Ive 
considered if he ought reasonably to have become aware he had cause for complaint 
sooner.   
Turning to the letters Portal says it sent Mr D, it seems likely he would have successfully 
received these given I can see the letters were correctly addressed. In any case, having 
considered the content of the letters, I dont think Mr D ought to have felt overly concerned 
by these. Ill explain why. 
Portals letter dated 12 February 2015 says the value of Mr Ds pension fund had dropped by 
1.92% since June 2014, from just over £18,284.49 to around £18,070.79. But it also went on 
to show Mr D what his fund could be worth when he turns 65, giving examples using 
annualised growth rates, with no suggestion he could lose his investments. 
In relation to Raithwaite Hypa in particular, while Portal said, for example, that this had only 
paid one of the annual interest payments which was lower than expected, I note that the 
expected investment return dates were 2018 and 2020, which hadnt yet been reached. 
Portal also said plans were being put in place which, if successful, would mean Mr D would receive payment of outstanding interest, a penalty for late payment and return of capital. And 
that security against the properties would be enforced if necessary. So I think Portal made 
reassuring statements about how this might be resolved and the next steps. Portal then went 
on to explain that it may reassess funds and recommend changes based on performance, 
but I note that it didnt go on to make any changes to Mr Ds pension fund for this reason. 
Instead it said Mr D was investing in the most suitable funds to meet his retirement 
objectives. 
I recognise Portals letter dated 17 September 2015 did say, for example, that the 
investment experience wasnt what it anticipated in every case. But it also said most funds 
are making efforts to return Mr Ds capital, along with the growth he was entitled to, sooner 
than originally anticipated. In relation to Raithwaite Hypa, it also included an update that one 
of the properties had an administrator appointed who was looking to sell it and use it to pay 
creditors, including Mr D. And Portal said it thinks security measures such as this are doing 
the job and will generate enough to pay all outstanding interest, as well as returning Mr Ds 
capital. 
So, overall, I think Mr D wouldve felt reassured by the content of the above letters rather 
than concerned about the advice hed been given in relation to the nature and performance 
of his investments.
Portals letter dated 20 January 2016 said that, while Mr Ds pension fund value had fallen by 
1.95% since February 2015 from just over £18,070.79 to around £17,730.99, the market had 
suffered a downturn, this was nothing to worry about and is something to be expected when 
investing in any type of fund. It also said investments should be viewed as long term, five 
years plus, to see the potential long term gains it expects. In relation to Raithwaite Hypa, it 
contained similar information to its earlier letters. And Portal again went on to explain that it 
may reassess funds and recommend changes based on performance, but it didnt go on to 
make any changes for this reason  it only recommended Mr D invest some of the surplus 
cash he was holding in his SIPP. So, I dont think this letter ought to have given Mr D cause 
for concern about the advice, as it was positive overall. 
Looking at the SIPP valuations Mr D was sent, while he says Portal told him he could expect 
10% growth, I dont think his pension fund value having dropped by around £600 in total 
between June 2014 and January 2016 was enough to give him cause for concern. I say this 
because it was a small drop in value and Mr D was reassured by Portal as to the 
performance of his investments, as explained above. On 23 October 2017 though, Mr D was 
sent a SIPP valuation report showing the value of his pension fund had dropped by 
approximately a third, to just under £12,000, as the value of two of his investments within it 
had reduced to nearly £0. And, while Mr D might have been willing to take a small risk with 
his pension, when taking into account his lack of investment experience and that this 
appears to be his main pension provision, I dont think he was willing to risk losing a third of 
his overall fund. 
However I can see that a few weeks later, on 6 November 2017, Portal sent Mr D a letter 
which explained that, while it looked alarming that his illiquid investments are being valued at 
£1, nothing material had changed. And that this only meant his SIPP provider didnt know 
exactly what his investments were currently worth, rather than because they were worthless. 
Towards the end of the letter it told Mr D that pensions are complex and not to worry, as 
nothing material had changed since its last contact with him.   
In which case, Portal didnt just say that Mr Ds investments were still on track despite the £1 
valuation. Instead, I think it went further by giving an explanation for the valuation, reassuring 
him that his investments werent in fact worthless and that there had been no material 
changes. And as Portals letter followed so closely after the SIPP valuation report, I think   Mr E would have felt reassured that he should not worry about the two illiquid investments 
which had caused the value of his pension to reduce as Portal was telling him that his SIPP 
provider simply didnt know how to value them. Especially when considering Mr Ds lack of 
investment experience and that he trusted Portal, I think he would have felt reassured rather 
than being alerted to something having gone wrong with the advice. Portal doesnt seem to 
have been concerned, and reassured Mr D as a result, so I dont think its reasonable to say 
he ought to have had cause for concern so as to make him think he should complain, even 
in light of the 23 October 2017 SIPP valuation. 
Mr Ds SIPP provider has confirmed the next valuation it sent him wasnt until 5 May 2018.    
And I can see this showed that most of Mr Ds investments within his SIPP were now valued 
at £0 and it doesnt appear to have been followed by further letters from Portal with 
reassurances. In which case, I think this ought to have alerted Mr D to something having 
gone wrong to make him think he should complain about the advice. And, while Mr D 
referred his complaint to our service more than three years after the SIPP valuation dated    
5 May 2018, Ive seen evidence he raised it with Portal within three years of that. So I think 
Mr Ds complaint has been made in time, which means our Service can consider it.
The advice
Ive taken account of relevant laws and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, and what I consider to be relevant industry practice at the relevant time. These 
include the overarching Principles for Businesses (PRIN). Principles 1 (integrity), 2 (skill, 
care and diligence), 6 (customers interests) and 9 (reasonable care) are of particular 
relevance here.
The Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) in the regulators handbook, set out the rules 
regulated businesses have to follow. At the relevant time, COBS 9.2.1R required Portal to 
take reasonable steps to ensure a personal recommendation was suitable for Mr D. It had to 
obtain information as to Mr Ds knowledge and experience (relevant to the specific type of 
designated investment), his financial situation and investment objectives.
COBS 9.2.2R required Portal to gather sufficient information from Mr D to ensure the 
recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear the risks involved and had the 
necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction. 
And COBS 2.1.1R required Portal to act, honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client."
In 2009 the regulator, the Financial Services Authority (FSA), also published a checklist for 
pension switching. And one of the key issues it thought should be focussed on was whether 
the consumer had been switched to a pension where the investments dont match their 
attitude to risk and personal circumstances. 
As Mr D hasnt suggested Portals advice for him to switch his PP to a SIPP was unsuitable, 
Ive focused on whether the investments it recommended Mr D invest in within his SIPP 
were suitable. And, having done so, I dont think they were. Ill explain why. 
Portal determined Mr D had an adventurous risk profile. I appreciate that most of Mr Ds 
responses on the attitude to risk questionnaire support that he wanted to take that level of 
risk. But Portal shouldnt have simply relied on the answers given in a questionnaire to 
determine Mr Ds attitude to risk. It also had to consider Mr Ds experience and 
understanding of investments, as well as his capacity for loss. Mr D was a standard retail 
investor, with no investment experience or savings. And, while he owned his property 
outright, it appears this PP was Mr Ds main retirement provision, so it was one of his biggest 
assets. And, while Mr D had nine years until his expected retirement age of 55, his earnings were low, so I dont think he had the ability to build significant additional pension funds 
before then. So I think Mr Ds capacity for loss in respect of his pension was low and that 
Portal shouldve classified his ATR as cautious.
Yet, based on Portals advice, a significant part of the funds in Mr Ds SIPP was invested in 
UCIS. I think the regulators 2010 UCIS findings are relevant here, when it said that as well 
as these only being eligible for promotion to certain customers (generally sophisticated, high 
net worth investors), for example, even when a customer was deemed eligible for the 
promotion of UCIS, suitable advice involved limiting a clients exposure to these investments 
to 3% to 5% of their retirement provision. In Mr Ds case, 87.5% of it was invested in this.      
I dont think UCIS was suitable for Mr D at all, and certainly not in the proportion invested, 
given theres nothing to indicate he had the requisite knowledge or experience to accept or 
understand the risks associated with these types of investments. 
I can see Mr D was made aware some of the investments were illiquid in the suitability 
report. And that it said the Raithwaites Hypa Fund was an UCIS which may, for example, 
carry higher risks and that it usually requires a sophisticated understanding of investments. 
But Portal then said that it was recommending this investment in any event under an 
exemption under COBS regulations 4.12, as it had taken reasonable steps to ensure the 
investment was suitable for Mr D. And it went on to focus on the rewards this investment 
would produce. So I think Mr D went ahead because he trusted Portals advice. And had it 
recommended he invest in mainstream, regulated funds, which I think would have been 
suitable advice, I think Mr D would have done so for that same reason.
In summary, I think the investments Portal recommended were unsuitable, given these were 
likely to lead to Mr D being exposed to far more risk than appropriate. And I dont think he 
had the capacity for loss that investments like this carry. Instead, I think suitable advice 
would have been for him to invest in regulated mainstream funds. Had Portal given that 
advice, I think Mr D would most likely have invested in that way.
Therefore, I think that a fair and reasonable way to compensate Mr D for the unsuitable 
advice is to use a benchmark based on an investment strategy in line with his circumstances 
and attitude to risk.
This matter will also have Mr D caused distress and inconvenience given hes been 
prevented from taking his fund when he wanted as a result of the advice. So Portal should 
also pay Mr D £500 in compensation. I think this is a fair amount to make up for this in the 
circumstances. 
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr D back into the position he would likely 
have been in, had it not been for Portals unsuitable advice. 
I think Mr D would have invested differently. It isnt possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Ds 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
Compare the performance of Mr D's investment with the benchmark shown below. If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. If the fair 
value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below.
 Portal should pay into Mr D's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
 
If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into Mr D's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced 
to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr D wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
 
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr D's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
 
For example, if Mr D is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr D would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
If either Portal Mr D dispute that this is a reasonable assumption, they must let us 
know as soon as possible so that the assumption can be clarified and Mr D receives 
appropriate compensation. It wont be possible for us to amend this assumption once 
any final decision has been issued on the complaint.
 
Pay to Mr D £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the unsuitable 
advice, which has led to a loss.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr D how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr D a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
 
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end date)Additional 
interest
SIPP Still existsfor half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
Portal should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Portal pays should be included in the 
actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Portal is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculating the actual value. Portal may require that Mr D provides an 
undertaking to pay Portal any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing 
the receipt from the pension plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portal 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted 
from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
Given Mr D has said he would have accessed his pension upon turning 55 if he could 
have and that hes since said hed like to withdraw it all, this means the SIPP only exists 
now because of the illiquid investments. In order for the SIPP to be closed and further fees 
that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be removed. Ive set out 
above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the investment, or this is 
something that Mr D can discuss with the SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how 
long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Portal is 
unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Mr C an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr D wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital. 
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr Ds risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr D into that position. It does not mean that Mr D 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr D could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint and direct Portal Financial 
Service LLP to pay redress as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman