DRN-2479129
The complaint
Mr R complains that TSB Bank plc didnt update the Credit Reference Agencies with details 
of his bankruptcy discharge and didnt investigate his complaint.
What happened
Mr R says he was discharged from bankruptcy in 2018 but TSB failed to update the Credit 
Reference Agencies (CRAs) with that information in respect of his TSB accounts. He says 
he told TSB that he had been discharged and says he sent it the notice. Mr R says he asked 
TSB to investigate but it didnt do so. He says this mistake has had a significant impact on 
him and his ability to get credit.
TSB accepts that the complaint should be upheld and says it has now updated its records 
and updated the CRAs. It accepts it doesnt have a record of asking Mr R to provide it with 
the discharge notice.
Mr R brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The investigator 
thought Mr R had provided evidence of the e-mail exchanges between him and TSB in which 
he asked it to investigate his complaint, but that complaint wasnt looked at. The investigator 
thought there wasnt any evidence TSB asked for the notice and thought this took two years 
to sort out not the weeks it should have. The investigator thought there would have been an 
impact on Mr R and his ability to get credit but it difficult to say exactly what that impact was. 
The investigator recommended TSB pay £650 compensation.
Mr R accepts that view.
TSB doesnt accept that view and im summary says it accepts the complaint should be 
upheld but doesnt think it ought to pay the compensation amount as there is no actual 
evidence of the impact Mr R suffered caused by the adverse information on his credit file. It 
also says Mr R still has a relatively low credit score despite it increasing when the adverse 
information was removed from his credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint and agree TSB 
should pay the compensation recommended by the investigator.
There is no dispute here that TSB made a mistake in dealing with what I think ought to have 
been a relatively straightforward matter. I can see from the e-mail exchange between Mr R 
and TSB that Mr R raised this issue in 2018 and I accept he wanted matters resolved as he 
would have known about the adverse information incorrectly recorded on his credit file. I 
dont think TSB ever looked into his complaint appropriately or has explained why it didnt do 
so. So, I accept that Mr R as a result has waited two years for the adverse information to be 
removed and that in those circumstances, he was caused a significant level of distress and 
inconvenience. I also accept there would have been an impact on his credit score and his 
ability to obtain credit, but I accept Mr Rs credit score is still relatively low and its almost 
impossible to measure the exact impact TSBs actions had on any credit applications.
For those reasons I dont think it matters that Mr R cant provide evidence of, for example, 
rejected credit applications of evidence of the exact impact the problems caused. Im 
satisfied the important issues are that Mr R was caused distress and inconvenience and 
would have been frustrated by TSBs inability to investigate his complaint appropriately. And 
I can see in any event Mr R has provided evidence of the impact on his credit score and the 
increase since the adverse information was removed.
Overall, I think TSB should pay the recommended compensation as I find Mr Rs ability to 
borrow or obtain credit would have been impacted over the two-year period. And that award 
fairly reflects the more important issues about the length of time this took to sort out and the 
lack of any real investigation by TSB and the further distress and inconvenience that caused.
I can see that TSB says it has updated the CRAs with the correct information. But for the 
avoidance of doubt, if Mr Rs credit file hasnt been updated in respect of both accounts, then 
it should be
Putting things right
I intend to order TSB to pay £650 compensation and update Mr Rs credit file if it has not 
already done so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order TSB Bank plc to pay Mr R £650 
compensation and update his credit file if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman