DRN-4034261
The complaint
Ms L and Mr S complain about how Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI) dealt with their account 
following it being made dormant.
What happened
Ms L and Mr S say that BoI blocked their savings account without warning in November 
2022. They say they sent BoI identification documents which it said it didnt receive which 
caused additional concerns. In summary they would like BoI to warn customers about 
making an account dormant and would like it to accept documents by a more secure 
method. They would also like an explanation about the missing documents and say BoI used 
an out of date address. Mr S says he spent hours on telephone calls and more time spent 
dealing with the problems. And paid twice for certified documents to be sent. Ms L and Mr S 
would like compensation and for the regulator to take action against BoI.
BoI accepts it provided details of an old address and accepts providing conflicting 
information. It has apologised and offered a total of £250 compensation. It also says the 
account was made active again in December 2022. And it correctly followed its dormancy 
procedure when the account wasnt used in the three years before November 2022.
Ms L and Mr S brought their complaint to us, and our investigator explained what our role 
was and which parts of this complaint we could deal with. The investigator thought BoI was 
entitled to apply its dormancy policy when the account hadnt been used in line with account 
terms and conditions. The investigator accepted there would have been concerns about the 
missing documents but didnt think the account or personal information had been 
compromised. The investigator thought the compensation offer of £250 appropriate but 
thought BoI should pay for the second certification and postage cost.
BoI doesnt agree with that view and says the compensation offer is appropriate.
Ms L and Mr S also dont agree and in summary say they checked their account regularly 
and that there was no method of uploading documents to, for example, a secure portal. They 
say they were caused concern about the safety of their money for about a month and would 
like BoIs service to be fit for purpose.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that BoI has made an appropriate 
compensation offer but should also pay the second certification/postage costs. I appreciate 
Ms L and Mr S will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly they feel 
about what took place. I hope they both appreciate what our role is here and that we are not 
BoIs regulator. So, we cant punish a business or direct that it changes the way in which it 
operates. We also cant direct a business about accepting documents via what Ms L and Mr 
S say are more secure methods.
I have looked at BoIs account terms and conditions which I think would have been agreed to 
when the account was first opened. I can see they explain the dormancy procedure and 
make clear that will be followed if there hasnt been account activity in three years. I 
appreciate Ms L and Mr S may not have recalled that information from when the account 
was first opened and accept that they would have checked the account. But Im satisfied BoI 
didnt make a mistake or act unfairly by taking the account action it did in these 
circumstances. And its not our role to direct it about that policy or direct it be changed.
The key part of this complaint is what then took place. There is no dispute that an incorrect 
address was given to Ms L and Mr S which delayed the account access. I have no doubt Ms 
L and Mr S were caused distress and inconvenience in sending the documents again and 
would have been concerned about their location. I accept for at least a few weeks they 
would have had concerns about the possibility of personal information being lost.
So, the main issue for me to consider is the compensation level and to decide if BoIs 
compensation offer is appropriate. Having done so I am satisfied BoI has made a fair and 
reasonable compensation offer. Im satisfied that although Ms L and Mr S were concerned 
about the implications of the location of the documents, their account was not compromised 
or their personal data. I dont think Ms L and Mr S suffered any real financial loss save for 
the certification costs and that the issue was resolved in December 2022 which I think was in 
a relatively short time period. I dont think what took place justifies a more significant 
compensation amount for those reasons.
Im satisfied that Ms L and Mr S had no real choice but to re-send the documents at 
additional cost. I agree with the investigator that BoI should pay that cost and I think it should 
be in addition to the compensation offer. I say that as BoI raised other issues with the 
documents at what I think was a relatively late stage.
Overall, Im satisfied BoI should pay a total of £250 compensation and the second document 
sending costs. I realise that Ms L and Mr S will have unanswered questions and concerns, 
but I hope they appreciate that this decision simply cant deal with them for the reasons I 
have explained.
Putting things right
BoI should pay £250 compensation in total which it has offered and the sending costs which 
BoI has receipts for which are £45.10.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to 
pay Ms L and Mr S a total of £295.10 compensation less the £50 compensation if already 
paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman