DRN-3272930
The complaint
Mr P complains Lloyds Bank PLC wont reimburse money he lost when he fell victim to a 
scam. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
Mr P was introduced to the idea of trading by a friend. He made enquiries on a forum 
and subsequently received calls from a number of companies offering trading 
incentives. This included Prestige FM. Mr P started with an investment of 250 Euro 
followed by another 1,500 Euro. These payments were made by credit card and are 
not subject to this complaint. Following those investments, Mr P invested a further 
£37,361.71 and received a credit of £1,633.63 after his first debit card payment.  Mr 
P also paid £1,117.09 in transaction fees. 
The payments were made using Mr Ps debit card and were also facilitated by taking 
out two loans. They took place between November 2018 and April 2019 and were 
made to Euro Wealth and FXGlobe  money transfer businesses. 
Mr P realised hed been the victim of a scam when he tried to withdraw funds and the 
merchant was uncontactable. He was subsequently told his account had been 
closed. 
Lloyds declined to refund the transactions. Payments hadnt been made to Prestige 
FM but to third-party money transfer services and they had carried out their role of 
transferring funds. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They were satisfied the trader wasnt 
legitimate because there was a warning about them on the FCA website in August 
2018, and it was operating without authorisation when it shouldnt have been. There 
were also reports in the public domain which added to a bigger picture of this being a 
scam. The investigator found the bank ought to have intervened at the second 
payment made on 10 December 2018, for £19,167.18, as the size of it combined with 
it being international, was unusual activity for Mr Ps account history.  She required a 
refund of the transactions - £33,634.72 - and associated transaction fees - £1,005.66 
- from that point on, plus 8% simple interest. 
Lloyds didnt initially respond to the view. And when it was notified the matter was being 
referred to an ombudsman, it asked for an extension to respond; although granted that 
hasnt been met. Im satisfied Lloyds has had a fair opportunity to consider the view and 
provide any further evidence or arguments. Its now appropriate to move to this final stage.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points above, I 
have read and considered everything provided. Having done so, I agree with the conclusions 
reach by the investigator for the following reasons:
There is no dispute that Mr P authorised the transactions in question; he made the 
payment using his legitimate security credentials. Whilst he didnt intend for his 
money to go to fraudsters, he is initially presumed liable for the loss.
Lloyds is aware of our approach of expecting it to have been monitoring accounts to 
counter various risks; have systems in place to identify unusual transactions or other 
indicators that its customers were at risk of fraud and, in some situations, make 
additional checks before processing payments, or decline them altogether to protect 
customers from possible financial harm from fraud. 
I have considered the transactions Mr P made in relation to this scam. And I agree 
that the first payment made wasnt so unusual or uncharacteristic that I think ought to 
have triggered Lloyds fraud prevention systems. However, I do agree the second 
payment of nearly £20,000 was; this was a very large payment from the account, 
much higher than anything in the preceding 12 months, which rarely went over 
£1,000, and it was an international payment, which was also unusual for the account. 
Im therefore satisfied this payment ought to have triggered the banks systems and 
lead to payments being paused, pending further intervention  such as making 
enquiries, or giving a scam warning.  
Had Lloyds carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Mr P about the 
payment, Ive no reason to doubt he would have explained what he was doing. Whilst 
I accept Lloyds had no duty to protect him from a poor investment choice, or give 
investment advice, it could have provided information about the steps a customer can 
take to ensure, as far as is reasonably possible, that they are dealing with a 
legitimate person  such as checking the payee was authorised with the FCA. And it 
could have drawn on its own knowledge and information that was within the public 
domain (as referenced by the investigator) about the high risks associated with 
trading and the potential for fraud and provided Mr P with a potential scam warning. 
I havent seen any evidence that Lloyds intervened. Had it done so, Im satisfied Mr P 
would have looked further into the opportunity, about the investment type in general, 
whether the trader was regulated here or abroad and noted the various warnings 
about trading scams. Indeed, its likely he would have come across the FCA warning 
for Prestige FM himself. It follows that a warning from Lloyds would likely have 
exposed the scam, and caused Mr P to stop trading, thereby preventing the further 
loss of £33,634.72 and associated transaction fees of £1,005.66. 
But that isnt the end of the matter. I have also considered whether Mr P should bear 
some responsibility for the situation in which he finds himself. Having done so, I dont 
think he should.  I havent seen any evidence which would suggest Mr P foresaw, or 
ought to have foreseen, the risk of being scammed such that it would be fair to 
reduce compensation accordingly. 
I have also taken into account that Mr P borrowed in order to have further funds to 
invest. But it isnt clear from his account statements that the funds into his account 
were as a result of loans. In the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think it was 
reasonably foreseeable to Lloyds that Mr P was borrowing to facilitate the 
investment, and so was at further risk (i.e. in terms of loan repayments and interest).  
I therefore dont make any award for this.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds 
Bank PLC to:
Reimburse £34,640.38 representing the losses set out above and associated 
transaction fees; and
Pay 8% simple interest on that refund from the date of the transactions to the date of 
settlement, less any lawfully deductible tax.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman