DRN-3375517
The complaint
Miss R complains that she was given incorrect information by Barclays Bank UK PLC trading
as Barclaycard when she asked for help during the pandemic.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said:
Miss R has a Barclaycard and a payment was due on 23 March 2020. Miss R called 
Barclaycard and explained she was unable to make the payment because her income had 
been impacted by the pandemic. The call handler told Miss R they could arrange for a 
temporary hold to be placed on her account for three months and that missed payments 
would be recorded on her credit file. But the call handler also said Barclaycard was looking 
at providing further payment holiday assistance shortly and credit files that were affected 
would be remediated once the new approach was brought in.
The payment that was claimed from Miss R on 23 March 2020 was recalled two days later. 
Miss R didnt make any payments in April, May or June 2020.
In July 2020 Miss R complained and said she thought her account had been included in the 
revised payment holiday approach Barclaycard introduced in April 2020 that wouldve meant 
her credit file was unaffected. Barclaycard apologised and said Miss R had been incorrectly 
led to believe she would be contacted to apply for the revised payment holiday approach.
Barclaycard accepted Miss R wasnt contacted as promised. Barclaycard didnt agree to 
amend Miss Rs credit file but offered her £50 to apologise for its call handlers errors.
Miss R cleared the arrears of £702.83 in August 2020 to ensure Barclaycard didnt 
continue to report them on her credit file.
Miss R referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Barclaycard had dealt with Miss Rs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything 
else. Following that, Barclaycard offered to remove arrears markers for May, June and July 
2020. Miss R didnt agree and said Barclaycards offer should also include March and April
2020. As Miss R asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached a different decision to the investigator. Whilst Im please Barclaycard more 
recently offered to amend Miss Rs credit file, Im not persuaded its offer goes far enough 
or is a fair way to resolve her complaint.
Ive listened to the call Miss R made on 23 March 2020. Im satisfied the call handler 
heavily implied that the payment hold placed on Miss Rs account would be reviewed once 
the revised guidance was introduced. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published its 
payment deferral guidance for businesses on 2 April 2020 and Barclaycard introduced the 
new approach a week later. Im satisfied the call handler led Miss R to believe her account 
would be reviewed and included in the revised approach. There was no requirement 
mentioned for Miss R to proactively get back in touch with Barclaycard or apply again 
online. Im satisfied Miss R was led to believe Barclaycard would be in touch with the next 
steps.
Barclaycard took no further action to contact Miss R and her account remained on the 
existing payment hold. That meant missed payments were reported on Miss Rs credit file. 
As Ive said above, Im satisfied Miss R was misled. So I need to think about what she 
wouldve done if she was given the right information during the call.
Had Miss R been told to contact Barclaycard again after it introduced the new guidance, 
Im satisfied she wouldve done. Its clear Miss R wanted to put measures in place as her 
income had been directly impacted by the pandemic. I think Miss R wouldve called back 
or applied online if she hadnt been led to believe Barclaycard would contact her. And, Ive 
not seen anything that indicates Miss R wouldnt have been approved under the FCAs 
payment deferral guidance.
As the FCA deferral guidance says, there should be no negative impact to a consumers 
credit file because of the payment deferral. So once that guidance was in place, I wouldnt 
expect Barclaycard to record a missed payment on Miss Rs credit file.
Barclaycard recently offered to remove the arrears information for May, June and July 
2020. But I think that needs to go further and include April 2020 as well. Given the 
guidance came into effect on 2 April 2020 and Barclaycard introduced measures a week 
later, I see no reason why Miss R wouldnt have been included before her next payment 
was due, had she been asked to make an application. As a result, I intend to tell 
Barclaycard to amend Miss Rs credit file and remove the April 2020 missed payment.
I dont intend to tell Barclaycard to amend the March 2020 missed payment. Ultimately, the 
FCA deferral guidance hadnt been introduced at that point. That meant Barclaycards 
existing support plans were Miss Rs only option. And whilst Barclaycard did agree to place 
Miss Rs account on hold, it confirmed that under the existing approach a missed payment 
would be applied. As no payment was made to Miss Rs credit card in March 2020 and 
there was no option to take a payment holiday without impact to her credit file, I think the 
missed payment for March 2020 was correctly recorded.
Miss R has explained she had to make a large payment to clear the arrears which caused 
difficulty at an already stressful time. Miss R has pointed out that the situation wouldve been 
different if shed been approved for a payment holiday under the FCA deferral guidance. I 
agree. Given Miss Rs circumstances at the time, I dont doubt that find sum to
cover three months payments was both distressing and inconvenient.
I can also understand how upset Miss R feels at being given misleading information at a time 
when she needed Barclaycards support. So, as well as amending Miss Rs credit file, I also 
intend to tell Barclaycard to increase the award from £50 to £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments they wanted me to consider 
before I made my final decision. Miss R responded and said she feels Barclaycard should do 
more to resolve her complaint. Miss R explained shed had to make up the payments 
covered by the payment holiday so has lost out financially. Miss R also said shed done 
everything possible to resolve the situation. Barclaycard didnt accept either and highlighted two text messages it sent to Miss R 
following the introduction of the Payment Deferral Guidance in April 2020 which satisfied the 
agents promise to get in touch. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for their responses. Miss R has explained she had to make up 
the missed payments in question so feels she lost out. But the FCA Payment Deferral 
Guidance didnt mean businesses had to stop charging interest. So even if Barclaycard had 
approved a payment holiday in April 2020 the balance would continue to accrue interest to  
be paid back at a later date. So whilst I can see Miss R made missed payments up, thats in 
line with the Payment Deferral Guidance. Ive taken the inconvenience caused to Miss R into 
account when deciding how to fairly resolve her complaint. 
Barclaycard has pointed out it sent two text messages to Miss R in April 2020 notifying her 
the Payment Deferral Guidance had been introduced. I can see Barclaycard did send 
messages to Miss R. But shes told us that, following her call with Barclaycard, she was 
under the impression her account would be reviewed and updated in line with the Payment 
Deferral Guidance once it came into effect. 
Ive relistened to the call in question. Im satisfied Miss R was told her account would be 
included as part of a remediation approach by Barclaycard. Im satisfied Miss Rs view that 
she didnt need to take further action was reasonable. Whilst I note the text messages, I 
havent been persuaded to change my view of how to fairly resolve Miss Rs complaint.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Rs complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard to settle as follows: 
- Miss Rs credit file so no missed payments for April, May, June and July 2020
are recorded
- Pay Miss R a total of £200 (less any compensation already paidUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman