DRN-1873888
 
The complaint
Mrs G says she was mis-sold a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 
1997.
AXA France IARDs (AXA) taken responsibility for the sale for the purposes of this 
complaint. 
What happened
Mrs G took out a PPI policy which primarily helped to protect her store card payments in the 
event of disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld on the grounds that Mrs G wasnt 
properly informed of the PPIs exclusions and restrictions regarding claims for pre-existing 
medical conditions (PEMCs). If she had been, the adjudicator felt she wouldnt have taken it 
because the terms meant shed have been unable to claim for her pre-existing asthma. 
AXA didnt agree with the adjudicator, so the case was passed to me to review afresh.
I issued my provisional decision in April 2020 to explain why I wasnt minded to uphold the 
complaint. Essentially, I didnt think the PPIs PEMC terms  nor the other policy terms, for 
that matter  would have put Mrs G off buying it in her circumstances.  
I gave the parties the opportunity to respond to my decision, but we didnt hear back from 
AXA. And Mrs G confirmed she had nothing more to add.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Gs case. 
Having done so, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint. I set out my reasons in my provisional 
decision and, in the absence of any substantive responses to it, those reasons still stand. 
AXA needed to make it clear to Mrs G that she had a choice about taking out PPI and get 
her agreement before adding it. Ive seen a copy of Mrs Gs signed credit card application 
form and note that, under the section headed Payment & Purchase Protection, theres a tick 
to indicate she wanted PPI.  
Overall, I think AXA made it clear to Mrs G that she had a choice about taking out PPI and 
that she chose to take it. 
AXA says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs G. I think its unlikely advice was given from experience of how it sold these policies generally. 
That said, AXA still ought to have provided Mrs G with clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the PPI so that she could decide for herself if it was suitable. I cant say for 
sure whether AXA did that. And I dont have a copy of the specific policy terms from the time. 
But, from what I know of Mrs Gs circumstances and experience of what the main features of 
the policy are likely to have been, I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put her off taking it. 
I say that because, firstly, it seems Mrs G would have been eligible for the cover. And, unlike 
our adjudicator, I dont believe shed have decided against the PPI because of its exclusions 
and restrictions. I accept that Mrs G had suffered with asthma, but she was diagnosed with 
the condition many years before she bought the PPI. And it appears to have been stable and 
well-controlled with inhalers and annual check-ups by the time of the sale. 
Mrs Gs told us the condition didnt affect her daily life and I cant fairly say shed have 
considered it a likely cause of time off work for her given the lack of symptoms shed 
experienced up to that point. Further, the PPI would have had a waiting period, meaning any 
disability needed to lead to time off work for 30 consecutive days or more before any benefit 
was payable. It doesnt look to me as if Mrs G had any reason to think her condition was 
likely to lead to such a prolonged period off work. In addition, she could potentially have 
claimed if shed been off sick with any condition that wasnt related to her PEMC.
Mrs G says shed have got sick pay from her employer but its not clear how much shed 
have got or for how long. In any event, the PPI would have paid out on top of her employers 
pay, leaving her free to use those other means to cover her other living costs if she was off 
work. The PPI benefits would also potentially have paid out until the card balance was paid 
off and covered unemployment too. So, I think Mrs G would have considered it provided her 
with useful extra security. 
The critical illness cover Mrs Gs mentioned refers to an insurance policy that would have 
paid a lump sum in the event of her diagnosis with a specified illness. The PPI, on the other 
hand, provided a monthly benefit in the event of disability or unemployment. So, Im satisfied 
they covered different events.
Theres also nothing to suggest Mrs G couldnt afford the PPI. And the PPI was flexible in 
that Mrs G could have cancelled it at any time, and at no extra cost, if she decided it was no 
longer suitable for her.
Taking everything into account, and having issued my provisional decision, I still dont think 
Mrs Gs lost out because of how AXA sold her the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman