DRN-1891115
The complaint
Ms V has complained that Pinnacle Insurance Plc added an exclusion to her pet policy after 
it had started.
What happened
Ms V decided to take out Pinnacles pet policy for her cat to start on 8 June 2019. Pinnacle 
accepted her application and send her certificate of insurance on 9 May 2019 confirming the 
start date of 8 June 2019. Ms V had opted to pay the premium by instalments and the first 
instalment was to be collected on 10 June 2019. Within the certificate of insurance Pinnacle 
said it had applied to Ms Vs vet for her cats vet records in order to underwrite her cat 
specifically and if necessary, it would reissue the certificate if any exclusions needed to be 
imposed.
On 17 June 2019 Pinnacle wrote to Ms V enclosing a further certificate of insurance with an 
exclusion for gastro-intestinal problems which was reviewable at the next renew date. Ms V 
said she didnt receive this until 22 June 2019.
Ms V complained to Pinnacle as she thought this was unfair as she had already started to 
pay her premiums and therefore had no chance to consider the exclusion before the policy 
started.
Pinnacle didnt think it had done anything wrong, so Ms V brought her complaint to us. The 
investigator was also of the view that Pinnacle hadnt done anything wrong. Ms V disagreed 
so her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
As the investigator explained this service doesnt tell insurers what risks they should cover 
and what they shouldnt, thats a matter for each insurer to decide for themselves as a matter 
of their own commercial decisions and judgement. All insurers are free to decide what risks 
they want to insure and more crucially how they will insurer them. All this is regulated by the 
rules of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and neither I nor this service can interfere 
with that on the proviso that they treat all consumers the same under the same underwriting 
criteria. So, once its been clarified that an insurer treats all its customers in similar situations 
the same, then the regulations deem that fair. Here in Ms Vs case, its clear Pinnacle were 
following their own underwriting guidelines which in turn means it treats its customers with 
similar issues to Ms Vs the same.  
In Ms Vs case, given the one incidence of possible gastro-enteritis as detailed by her vet in 
July 2018, Pinnacle decided to impose an exclusion for gastro-intestinal problems which 
would be reviewed at the next renewal and removed had no further gastro-intestinal 
problems occurred in that policy year. Ms V thinks this isnt fair as it was a very minor issue 
and theres no medical evidence her cat has any ongoing gastro-intestinal problem or a 
propensity to have such problems. Shes of the view that Pinnacle must produce expert vet 
evidence on the matter. I dont agree. This is because Pinnacle is entitled to underwrite 
issues, as it sees fit and provided it does that for everyone in a similar position, theres 
nothing wrong in doing that. So, it doesnt need to expert vet evidence on the issue, as Ms V 
believes.
Unusually for pet insurers, Pinnacle has decided to underwrite each pet they insure, by 
asking for the vet history on the pet, immediately after a consumer such as Ms V applied for 
cover. It explains this on the Certificate of insurance it provides immediately after the 
application which it emailed to Ms V on 9 May 2019.
 
I dont consider theres anything wrong with this, as traditionally pet insurers dont tend to get 
any vet evidence prior to any claim being made. They rely on the questions asked in the 
application form and/or varying assumptions which the applicant is required to agree. I 
consider its more advantageous to the policyholder for an insurer to underwrite a pet 
upfront, as then at least the policyholder is aware from the beginning what issues might 
occur before they make a claim. Most other pet insurers will merely exclude the condition 
from any cover, if they find out from the vet history whats been claimed is likely to have pre-
existed the start date of the policy, if it hadnt been already disclosed in the application form.
I asked Pinnacle to detail its application process which Ms V would have completed.  It asks 
the following:
Has your cat shown any sign of injury or illness or been unwell? We need to know 
anything you might have noticed OR discussed with your vet or any other 
professional about your cats health or behaviour, even if there was nothing to be 
concerned about and the problem was resolved quickly? 
It also confirms that Ms V disclosed her cats gastro-intestinal problems in response, which 
was then later confirmed by her cats vet history.
 
The policy terms are very clear that it wont pay for any condition or symptom, or anything 
related to it, that you were aware of or has been noted and/or investigated by a vet, before 
this policy started.  Ms V of the view that this means or implies that the condition must 
remain an issue. But the term doesnt say or imply that, its not at all further qualified in that 
way. Its also not an unusual term in pet policies. Virtually every other pet policy includes 
something along these lines, so its an industry standard clause. Therefore, I dont find it at 
all unusual.
I consider Pinnacle did coherently inform Ms V once she had applied, that it would then 
consider her cats vet history given its email to her of 9 May 2019. Included with that email 
was the certificate of insurance which said the following:
Important - Please Read
Please note that pre-existing conditions are not covered under this policy. At
application you disclosed that [name of cat] has had signs or symptoms of injury or
illness, or been unwell, either now or at some time in the past.
We have contacted the relevant vet(s) for further details to individually medically
underwrite your policy. Once this process is complete we will advise you if there
are any conditions for which [name of cat] will not be covered and will reissue a new
certificate listing any specific exclusions we have placed for [name cat].I consider this was adequate notice that potentially the terms of the cover would depend on 
the contents of the vet history. However, I agree there was then a delay and it appears 
Pinnacle had issues in obtaining the vet history for Ms Vs cat. 
Ms V policy didnt start until 8 June 2019, so her 14 days cooling off period expired on 22 
June 2019. Payment of her first premium instalment was taken on 10 June 2019. However, 
had Ms V decided for whatever reason he didnt want her policy by 22 June 2019, she would 
have received a refund of this premium instalment, given the 14 days cooling off period. 
This is normal for all insurance policies and Pinnacles policy, in line with the rest of the 
insurance market, properly details and explains the 14 days cooling off period. So I dont 
think Pinnacle did anything wrong in taking Ms Vs first premium instalment.
Pinnacles letter enclosing the revised is dated 17 June 2019, but Ms V said she didnt 
receive it until 22 June. I checked with Pinnacle why it also didnt email this letter to Ms V. It 
said at the time it was having some IT issues where its customers werent receiving its mail, 
so it reverted to sending everything out by post. But doing this didnt give Ms V much time to 
consider the matter before the expiry of the 14 days cooling off period.
However, Ms V didnt seek to cancel the policy then. Had she done so, I would have 
required Pinnacle to ensure she could have done that without any penalty given the 14 days 
cooling off allowance to do this. As it now stands, she paid for the cover provided with the 
exclusion until the expiry date of the policy and Pinnacle said no claim was made. Therefore, 
Ms V had the benefit of the cover the policy provided except for the exclusion for the entire 
of the policy year.
So, in conclusion I consider that Pinnacle didnt do anything wrong. It properly notified Ms V 
it was underwriting her cat, which might change things. It properly applied its underwriting 
guide to the issue in the vet history, which in turn makes that a fair process under the FCA 
regulations. And whilst it provided this to her only just before the expiry of the cooling off 
period, since Ms V didnt seek to cancel her policy, there is no issue with the delay caused 
by its IT problems.  
My final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman