DRN-1161924
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc closed his daughters Junior ISA without providing 
the required period of notice.
What happened
In February 2019 Mr C opened a Junior ISA with Santander for his daughter. He 
subsequently made a request to transfer the sum held in his daughters child trust fund 
(CTF) account with a business, which Ill refer to as O, to the ISA.
Mr Cs request couldnt be completed because the registered contact on the account held 
with O didnt match the registered contact on the Junior ISA. Mr C was told about this in 
several letters. The final letter warned Mr C that the Junior ISA would be closed if Santander 
didnt hear back from him. Santander didnt hear back from Mr C so the account was closed 
around two weeks later.
Mr C complained. He said he hadnt received any of the letters sent in March or April 2019. 
But even if he had, he said it wasnt fair for Santander to close the account because it hadnt 
provided the required notice period under the account terms. Santander believed it was 
entitled to close the account as Mr Cs daughter couldnt have a CTF account and Junior ISA 
at the same time. Mr C remained unhappy and referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the terms of the account allowed 
Santander to close it immediately if there was a significant breach of a specific condition on 
the account. The investigator thought a specific condition of the Junior ISA account was that 
a child cant hold a CTF and a Junior ISA at the same time. As Mr C was attempting to 
transfer the balance from an existing CTF account and this couldnt be completed, the CTF 
account remained open. So, she thought this amounted to a significant breach and it was fair 
for Santander to close the account without providing the required notice period.
Mr C didnt accept this  he didnt think this amounted to a significant breach, which he said 
wasnt defined in the terms and conditions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
Mr Cs concerns centre on the notice period Santander gave him before closing the account. 
He believes three months notice shouldve been given as there wasnt a significant breach 
of the account conditions.
Under the specific terms of the Junior ISA account, Santander is required to give three 
months written notice if it wishes to close the account. However, the account is also subject 
to Santanders general terms and conditions. Section 17.2 says that Santander may give 
less notice than this if it considers the account holder is in significant breach of a Specific Condition of the account, or if the customer has failed to remedy a breach where Santander 
had asked them to.
The Specific Conditions are set out in the Junior ISA key facts document. This says that a 
child cant hold a CTF account and a Junior ISA at the same time. It also says if a child has a 
CTF account it must be transferred in full as part of the Junior ISA application.
Its clear that Mr Cs intention was to transfer the full balance of the CTF account to the 
Junior ISA on opening it. However, the registered contact details didnt match, so O was 
entitled to reject the request. Mr C was given several opportunities to remedy this. Santander 
wrote to him on 7 March, 27 March, 11 April and 26 April 2019, explaining what was wrong 
and what he needed to do to put this right. In the last letter he was clearly informed the 
account would be closed if Santander didnt hear from him in the next 10 days.
As the CTF account and Junior ISA were open at the same time, I think a Specific 
Condition of the Junior ISA was breached.
Mr C doesnt think this amounts to a significant breach of the account terms. But I dont think 
Santander needs to show its a significant breach. This is because the terms allow it to close 
the account if the account holder has failed to remedy a breach when asked to. While Mr C 
was only given 10 days notice of the account closure, he was given over two months to 
remedy the issue with the registered contact. So, I think he had ample opportunity to make 
the necessary changes to ensure the transfer went through and the CTF account was 
closed. Mr C says he didnt receive the letters, but they were correctly addressed and he 
hasnt made us aware of any problems with the postal service in his area at the time. So, I 
have to assume that at least some of these letters were received.
As Mr C was given a number of opportunities to rectify the issue with the account over a 
period of two months, I think it was reasonable for Santander to close it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2019.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman