DRN-2508873
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) accepted liability and paid out to a third 
party following a car accident involving his wife in January 2020, who was a named driver on 
his policy. He doesnt feel that this is fair or that he should be penalised as the accident 
wasnt his wifes fault.
What happened
A third party alleged that Mr Ms wife had pulled out of a side road when it was unsafe to do 
so and drove into the path of their vehicle, colliding with the rear passenger side. The third 
party contacted their insurance company who contact UKI. UKI then went on to contact Mr M 
about the accident to ask him what had happened. Mr M was not present in the vehicle 
himself at the time and Mr Ms wifes was also contacted by UKI and gave her account 
setting out her version of events. She said that she pulled out of the side road and was 
established on the main road and the third party had failed to stop as they were speeding. 
In October 2020 Mr M contacted UKI requesting an update on the case as his insurance was 
up for renewal. He was told by UKI that it had agreed to deal with the third-party claim. Mr M 
says that the third party was at fault for the accident. Mr M also says that this is a fraudulent 
claim by the third party  in particular in relation to the causation of injury  and he doesnt 
think that UKI should have settled the claim without his agreement.
UKI says that it spoke with Mr M and his wife on a number of occasions and that there were 
some inconsistencies in their version of events. UKI said that as Mr Ms wife had confirmed 
that she had pulled out of a side road which the third party was driving along and there was 
no evidence to support that the third party was speeding, it made the decision to deal with 
the third-party claim in full. This was without prejudice to liability and subject to independent 
engineering and medical evidence.
In relation to causation of damage and/or injury, UKI said that it would have to consider the 
damage to the third-party vehicle and independent medical evidence in support of any injury 
claim. If the matter were defended at court, it would have to ask the court to determine that 
the third party was bringing a fraudulent claim. UKI said that there was no supporting 
evidence to suggest that the third partys claim was not genuine. In the circumstances and in 
light of the independent medical evidence, UKI did not feel that it would be successful in 
defending this claim on fraudulent grounds so settled the third-party injury claim in full.
UKI advised that, under the terms of Mr Ms policy, it was entitled to take over and carry out 
the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in Mr Ms name or in the name or any 
other person covered by the policy. UKI confirmed that the accident has been recorded as a 
fault claim on Mr Ms policy and that this would affect his premiums on renewal. However, 
his no-claims discount was protected. 
UKI says that it attempted to call Mr M in February 2020 to notify him of this decision but the 
call was unsuccessful. This should have been followed up in writing, which wasnt done. In 
light of this, UKI apologised for the distress caused and paid Mr M £50 in compensation. 
Our investigator looked into this complaint and didnt think UKI needed to take any further 
action. He was of the view that UKI had taken into account all the facts and evidence before 
deciding that there was insufficient evidence to defend the claim. The investigator found that 
UKI was entitled to settle the claim under the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy and that 
it exercised its right to do so fairly and reasonably. 
Mr M disagrees with this so the case has come to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the complaint, I agree with the investigator for broadly the same reasons 
and Ive explained these further below.
My role isnt to decide who was at fault for the accident, but to consider whether UKI handled 
the claim in a fair and reasonable manner and in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ms 
policy when it settled the claim. 
Ive looked at the policy booklet for Mr Ms insurance provided by UKI and the general 
conditions of the policy. Under the section for Claims procedure  Our rights and your 
obligations it states We are entitled to: take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or 
settlement of any claim in your name, or in the name of any other person covered by this 
policy.
This effect of this term means that UKI was entitled to choose whether to settle the claim and 
that it didnt need the agreement or consent of Mr M to do so. However, it still had to act 
fairly and reasonably and make this decision based on the facts and evidence available. 
Ive considered what Mr M has said but I also have to bear in mind that he wasnt present at 
the accident himself. UKI has provided its rationale for reaching its decision. It says that 
there were some inconsistencies in the account given by Mr M and his wife. Mr Ms wife had 
pulled out of a side road and the third party was driving along the main road. Although Mr 
Ms wife had said that the third party was speeding, there was no evidence to support this. 
As a result of these factors, it chose to settle the third-party claim in full subject to 
independent engineering and medical evidence. I can see that an engineers report and 
medical report was provided to UKI by the third-party insurer to support the claim.
Mr M is also unhappy that the third party has made a claim for personal injury. The third-
party insurer has provided medical evidence to support this claim. Based on this and the 
engineers report, UKI made the decision that there was no evidence to support the 
assertion that the third partys claim was not genuine. UKI therefore determined that if the 
matter went to court it would have difficulties in proving that the injuries werent caused by 
the accident and defending the claim. It wouldnt therefore be able to recover all of its costs 
in taking the matter to court and chose to settle the claim for damage and injury.
Having looked at the information available, its my view that UKI considered all the facts and 
evidence before making a decision to settle the claim. This was in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy and doesnt appear to me to be contrary to the evidence. So I think 
the decision to settle the claim was fair and reasonable.
I can see that Mr M wasnt kept updated by UKI on the status of the claim. However, UKI 
gave Mr M £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused by this. This lack of communication wouldnt have affected the outcome of the decision on liability and I think this 
is reasonable in the circumstances.
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr M, but I can't fairly say that UKI has 
acted unreasonably in the circumstances of this case. So I won't be asking it to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont require U K Insurance Limited to do anything 
more to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman