DRN-2004873
The complaint
Mrs B says Morses Club PLC (Morses) irresponsibly lent to her. Mrs B says Morses failed 
to carry out sufficient affordability checks. If it had done it would have seen that it shouldnt 
have given her the loans.
What happened
This complaint is about two home collected credit loans provided to Mrs B between March 
and July 2018. Mrs Bs borrowing history is as follows:
 Loan Started Settled Loan 
amountHighest 
Combined 
Weekly 
repaymentTerm
1 02/03/2018 03/09/2018 £400 £20 33 weeks
2 04/07/2018 31/12/2018 £300 £35 33 weeks
Our adjudicator reviewed Mrs Bs complaint and thought that the complaint should be 
upheld. The adjudicator said this because they thought both of the loans were unaffordable 
because the repayments accounted for a significant proportion of Mrs Bs income. 
Morses didnt agree with the adjudicator. It said that when both loans were running 
consecutively Mrs B made regular repayments in excess of the weekly amount due, so it 
was highly unlikely the repayments were unsustainable. There was no evidence the 
repayments caused Mrs B any significant distress. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a decision in my role as 
ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Morses was required to establish 
whether Mrs B could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mrs Bs complaint. Having done so, I am upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Morses has given us details of the income and expenditure checks it carried out before 
lending to Mrs B. I note that for loan one Mrs Bs weekly income was recorded as £118 and 
Morses has told us that figure was checked with credit reference agencies. Mrs Bs 
expenditure was recorded as £70. The weekly repayment for the loan was £20. This 
represented 17% of Mrs Bs weekly income or 41% of her disposable income. I think this is 
too high a proportion of Mrs Bs income. The loan was to be repaid over a 33-week term  
over eight months  so I dont think it would be unforeseeable that Mrs B could experience 
some additional and unexpected expenditure during that time. I think there was a significant 
risk the lending would prove to be unsustainable. 
For loan two Mrs Bs income was recorded as being £121.05 and which was verified via a 
Department of Work and Pensions letter. And again, Mrs Bs expenditure was recorded as 
being £70. When loan two was taken loan one was still running and the combined weekly 
repayment was £35 so 29% of Mrs Bs income or 69% of her disposable income which again 
left Mrs B with very little flexibility in the event of unforeseen additional expenditure. And 
bearing in mind the source of Mrs Bs income it would seem unlikely that she would have 
been in the position to increase the level of income. 
Morses has said that Mrs B would repay £40 per week when the two loans were running 
concurrently which was more than she needed to and therefore showed the lending was affordable for her. But I think this misses the point as this wasnt known at the time the 
lending was given. It was the income and expenditure recorded at the outset of the lending 
that should have been taken into account and it should have been concluded that the 
repayments were unsustainable for Mrs B. So neither of the loans should have been given.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mrs B paid on loans one and two;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans one and two from Mrs Bs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to take off tax from this interest. Morses must 
give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint. Morses Club PLC should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman