DRN-3781484
The complaint
Ms W has complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV). She isnt 
happy that it didnt auto renew her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Ms W took out her motor insurance through LV and her policy had auto renewed every year 
since about 2015. In November 2021 her policy failed to auto renew as her card details had 
changed so LV couldnt simply auto renew the policy as it ordinarily would. Unfortunately, Ms 
W didnt realise that her policy hadnt auto renewed and so she wasnt insured when she 
was involved in an accident a few months later. 
Ms W complained to LV and asked it to cover her claim, but it wouldnt. It said it had simply 
followed its normal process once the policy wouldnt auto renew and hadnt done anything 
wrong. LV had written out to Ms W on a few occasions highlighting that it would need her to 
go online this year in order to renew her policy and it said this was all it was obligated to do. 
As Ms W remained unhappy she complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Ms W and upheld her complaint. He accepted that LV 
had simply followed its process by emailing Ms W a few times saying that she needed to 
renew her policy herself. But he thought, given the potential dire consequences of not having 
car insurance, that LV ought to have done more and tried to contact Ms W by other means 
(such as call, text or write out to her).
As LV didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I accept that LV has simply followed its process here in emailing Ms W around the 
time of renewal as it couldnt auto renew her policy I think this has produced an unfair 
outcome in the particular circumstances of this case. And so, Ms Ws complaint should be 
upheld, Ill explain why.
Ms Ws policy had auto renewed with LV without issue for years and I think she had a 
reasonable expectancy that her policy would simply auto renew this time. She paid her 
policy annually and simply didnt notice whether the payment was taken or not. Ms W has 
explained how busy she was around the time of renewal and I presume she chose to auto 
renew for this exact reason.
I know LV sent letters outlining that Ms W needed to take further steps in order to renew this 
year, but I dont think these were clear enough. Ms W has explained that she took a cursory 
look and just presumed her policy was renewing and I can understand this. I say this as Ms 
W has outlined how busy she was, that her policy had simply auto renewed for years and 
that she just thought the emails outlined she had missed the opportunity to shop around as 
opposed to the fact that her policy wasnt going to renew. 
I wouldve expected LV to do more here. Its emails should have been clearer that cover 
would stop, and I agree with Ms W that the emails dont use red ink or look to highlight and 
warn her that her policy wouldnt renew as normal. And I would expect the letter to explain 
why the policy wasnt auto renewing  that Ms Ws card details were no longer valid. Indeed, 
the policy documentation wording clearly explains that Ms W doesnt need to do anything to 
auto renew and specifically says well use the payment details youve previously given us 
and renew before the expiry date. If your card details have updated, your card provider will 
let us know. I find this persuasive and so I can understand why Ms W thought the policy 
would simply auto renew as it had done for a number of years. 
Ultimately, I have no reason to doubt Ms Ws account as she auto renewed with LV for years 
without problem. And given the potential consequences of driving without insurance are 
serious and may result in criminal proceedings or, as in this instance, being asked to cover 
large costs caused by an accident I would expect the insurer to make greater effort to 
contact the consumer and let them know this and that the policy wasnt renewing. 
As such, I would have expected LV to do more here. It could have called, text or wrote out to 
Ms W and explained the problem with the card, especially as Ms W had a clear expectancy 
that the policy would auto renew and that her card details would update. And I would expect 
LV to follow up and explain to Ms W that her policy hadnt renewed, that she wasnt insured 
and the potential consequences of not being insured but it didnt. 
So, I agree that LV should look to put Ms W back into the position she would have been in 
had the policy of renewed. This means that it should deal with Ms Ws claim that she should 
have been able to make in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. I note Ms W has 
gone on to get insured elsewhere so it can deduct from any settlement the cost of the policy 
for the period Ms W wasnt insured elsewhere (pro-rata).
Plus, I think that this incident must have been very worrying for Ms W. It mustve been very 
stressful, at an already stressful time given the accident she was involved in, to have found 
out she wasnt insured, and she had to pay a small amount of money for some general legal 
advice. Plus, Ms W had to face the inconvenience of being without a car, having to scrap her 
car as it was a write off and buy another when all this should have been dealt with under her 
insurance policy. And she has had the additional worry of not being sure if the police would 
look to prosecute her for driving without insurance. So, I think she should be awarded £300 
by way of compensation and LV should pay simple interest for the time she has been without 
any money owed from the claim.
Given all of this, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case is to uphold the complaint. And in addition to the steps outlined above LV should 
issue Ms W with a letter of indemnity 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Liverpool 
Victoria Insurance Company Limited to 
Provide Ms W with a letter of indemnity to cover the period when her policy was due 
to renew in November 2021 until the date she took out her new insurance policy for 
her new car;
Deal with Ms Ws claim in full, in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions 
of her insurance policy as if the policy had renewed in November 2021 including paying the third-party costs and dealing with her total loss claim;
Pay 8% simple interest for the time she has been without the money owed from the 
date of claim until the date of settlement;
Pay Ms W £300 compensation; and
Deduct any money Ms W would owe from the settlement figure including
oAny excess that would have been due under the policy;
oTime on cover (pro-rata) for the time Ms W should have been on cover from 
the date of renewal until the date she took out her new policy elsewhere; and
oThe salvage amount Ms W received for her car after it was written off.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman