DRN-2875776
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 2008. 
Mr T says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ts 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here. Mr T 
said he took the PPI online but Halifax sent information to show this was a phone sale.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr Ts representatives disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated the same 
complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. Also Mr T requested a decision.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ts. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ts complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Mr T has said the PPI was just included with his mortgage. But phone scripts available 
from around the time suggest Halifax wouldve normally referred to the protection as 
optional when it sold the cover. Its also likely Mr Ts mortgage offer made it clear the PPI 
wasnt compulsory. With all this in mind, on balance I think it more likely Halifax made it 
clear Mr T didnt have to take the PPI and he chose to take it.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr T so it had to check the PPI was right for him. And 
the evidence about Mr Ts circumstances at the time, shows it wasnt fundamentally 
wrong or unsuitable for him. 
For example, he was eligible for the cover and, from what hes told us of his work 
benefits, he wouldve suffered a loss of income if he couldnt work for an extended time  
so it seems he had a need for the cover. Also nothing about his employment or 
occupation wouldve made it difficult for him to claim and he didnt have any health 
issues the policy wouldve excluded. 
Mr T had savings hed chosen to keep rather than use to reduce the mortgage. The PPI 
benefit couldve helped him keep those intact - or free for other uses at what could be a 
difficult time if he were unemployed or too sick to work. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found he chose to take it - so it looks to me like he wanted this 
type of cover. It wasnt fundamentally wrong for him, as I concluded above, or too 
dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was 
given. Also it looks like it was affordable. It seems like the cover wouldve been useful for 
Mr T if something went wrong in the circumstances the policy covered. With all this in 
mind, I dont think Mr T wouldve declined the cover had Halifax done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations or exclusions on claims relating to back and mental 
health conditions, in light of Mr Ts circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. 
So I think he wouldve still thought he had some good reasons to take the policy.
Overall, I consider Mr T wouldve still taken the PPI. Given his circumstances at the time, it 
couldve provided a useful benefit at what could be a difficult a time were he to have lost his 
job or become too sick to work. Also I think the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely 
he thought he was getting. And, in those circumstances, I think it likely Mr T wouldve taken 
the policy in any event.
Mr Ts representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim the Financial 
Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling 
PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost 
good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
Mr Ts representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ts individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ts particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. This means Halifax doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
Im grateful to Mr T for his assistance and for his patience in bearing with us following his 
request for a decision.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman