Complaint
Mrs D complains that she was mis-sold a monthly premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in May 2004.
Background
Mrs D bought the policy in May 2004. The PPI was sold to her when she applied for a 
store card by filling in a leaflet while in a store.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. The business disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
In October 2019, I issued my provisional decision. At the time, this complaint was set up 
against a different business. Since issuing my provisional decision, another business, AXA 
France IARD (AXA), has taken responsibility for this complaint. To keep things simple, Ill 
refer to AXA in my decision.
In my provisional decision, I explained that I didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. Below is a 
extract of what I said:
AXA has provided us with a copy of Mrs Ds credit agreement. This shows Mrs D was 
given the option of adding the PPI to her account. Under the section Account Cover, Mrs D 
was asked to sign if she wanted the PPI. Looking at Mrs Ds credit agreement, I can see 
she signed next to the statement Yes, I would like to protect my Account with Account 
Cover (subject to eligibility). Please debit my Account with the relevant premium until further 
notice.
Ive also noted that under the same section on the application form, Mrs D had the option 
of selecting whether or not she wanted the Card Protection Plan. Mrs D didnt select 
this product, so I think she would have known she had a choice about taking out either 
product. Overall, I think its more likely than not Mrs D would have understood the PPI was 
optional. And I dont think she would have selected the PPI if she didnt want to take it out.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs D. This means it didnt have to check if it was right 
for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs D got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But Mrs D chose to take out the PPI, so 
it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances 
at the time it looks like she was eligible for the cover and it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover - so it would have been useful for 
her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
DRN-1233744Mrs D has told us she didnt need PPI as she would have received generous sick pay 
from her employer if she was too unwell to work. She also said she was in receipt of tax 
credits and child benefits. It was on this basis that the adjudicator upheld Mrs Ds complaint 
and concluded that her circumstances at time of sale meant that she wouldnt have found 
the PPI good value for money.
Ive thought about what Mrs D has told us about her sick pay. She says she would 
have been entitled to six months full pay followed by six months half pay from her employer 
if she was too unwell to work. Using what I know about Mrs Ds profession, her employer 
and the length of time she was employed, I think its unlikely she would have received the 
level of sick pay she says she was entitled to. While I dont doubt Mrs Ds employer did 
offer generous benefits to its employees after many years of service, in my experience its 
unlikely she would have been entitled to the level of sick pay she said she was after only one 
year of service.
So, I dont think the sick pay Mrs D was likely to have had would have meant the PPI 
wasnt useful for her. I say this because the PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick 
pay Mrs D would have received from her employer and would have potentially paid out for 
longer than she would have received full pay. The PPI also would have paid a benefit if    
Mrs D was ever made redundant.
Ive also thought about what Mrs D has told us about tax credits and child benefits she 
says she was in receipt of. Again, I dont think this means that she didnt have a need for the 
PPI. In the event of a successful claim, the PPI would have paid a benefit, which would 
have enabled Mrs D to use the money she received in the form of tax credits and child 
benefits for any other financial commitments she may have had.
If Mrs D wants to provide our service with information to support what shes told us about 
her sick pay, she can do so before the response date mentioned above. Once any 
information has been received, I will revisit this complaint to see whether it makes a 
difference to the outcome.
So overall, I think Mrs D could have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times 
and I dont think that any better information would have put her off from taking out the policy.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
I asked everyone to send me any further comments and information before I reached a final 
decision.
Neither Mrs D nor AXA responded with anything further for me to consider.        
My findings
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As Ive not received any new evidence, 
Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, for the same 
reasons.
 
 
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and within my provisional decision, I dont uphold  
Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman