DRN-3543166
The complaint
Mr N says Nationwide Building Societys online account opening system did not work, nor its 
online switching service, and this has wasted a great deal of his time. 
What happened
Mr N had to try multiple times to open a Flex Direct account online. He says he first tried, 
unsuccessfully, on 26 September 2021 and then again on 2 October 2021. On that day the 
same error occurred, but he was later successful. When he complained to Nationwide it said 
there had been no systems issues on those dates. It asked for details of the problems he 
had encountered so it could investigate further but Mr N was unable to provide this 
information. Mr N is also unhappy that in its response to his complaint Nationwide confirmed 
his account switch had gone through successfully and that is not the case. 
Mr N wants Nationwide to apologise for its systems failures and lack of proper investigation 
into the issues he reported, and to compensate him for the time he has wasted on this
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ns complaint. He said without evidence of the systems 
problems Mr N experienced it was reasonable that Nationwide could not investigate further. 
They had sent in evidence showing they had no systems issues on the relevant dates. And 
Mr Ns application on 2 October 2021 did not include a request for an account switch. He 
explained that the reference to the successful account switch in response to Mr Ns 
complaint was an error and the letter should have read application. He noted Mr N was 
unhappy with the incomplete letter template Nationwide had sent him, but explained that we 
have no power to look at the complaint handling as this is not a regulated activity. 
Unhappy with this assessment Mr N asked for an ombudsmans review, saying the use of 
the wrong word is incompetence  Nationwide had maintained the switch had gone through 
and now its admitted it didnt. .
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not upholding Mr Ns complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide completed an IT investigation that showed there were no systems issues on 
either date. It asked for more information from Mr N to better understand what might have 
happened, but he was unable to provide any details such as screenshots, or error 
messages. So, whilst frustrating for Mr N, I cannot fairly conclude Nationwide ought to have 
done more. As it said, the problem could have been caused by the device, the browser or 
the broadband but without more information I cant see that it would be possible for 
Nationwide to identify the route cause. 
Nationwides use of the word switch instead of application in the response to Mr Ns 
complaint has confused matters, but as our investigator explained we cannot include this in 
our scope as complaint handling is not a regulated activity. This means we have no power to 
look at it, or make any findings about it. Nationwide might want to contact Mr N to apologise 
for its typographical error, but I cannot instruct this.
I am satisfied however that Nationwide has not made any errors regarding the account 
switch, rather the evidence shows Mr N did not ask to move another account when he 
opened the Flex Direct account. I say this as Nationwide supplied Mr Ns application data 
from 2 October 2021 and that shows no current account switch was requested. 
It follows I have not found any failings, that I have the power to review, on the part of 
Nationwide.  
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman