DRN-4338497
The complaint
Mr Ds complaint is about his three mortgage accounts, originally taken out with a bank, but 
now held with Mars Capital Finance Limited, which purchased the mortgages in 2021. The 
mortgages are secured against his home. Mr D believes that the mortgage balances are 
incorrect and that Mars is demanding higher repayments than it is entitled to. 
To settle the complaint, Mr D would like Mars to adjust the accounts to show what Mr D 
believes are the true balances, and to allow him to negotiate a short settlement.
Mr D has been assisted in bringing the complaint by his son, but for clarity I will refer to Mr D 
throughout, even where submissions have been made on his behalf.
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are published, so its 
important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr D being identified. So for 
these reasons, I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. 
If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it; rather, itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. So whilst Ive noted all the 
detailed submissions Mr D has made, I am not required to address each and every point. 
Our enabling legislation allows me to do this, and to concentrate on deciding the issues that I 
consider to be the most important.
An investigator looked at what had happened, and issued two detailed letters explaining her 
conclusions. In the first, she concluded that there was no error with the interest rates applied 
to the accounts. The investigator noted that there was a suspended possession order from 
March 2014 which said that Mr D was required to pay the current monthly instalment, plus 
£112 per month towards the arrears. The investigator initially recommended Mars should re-
work the account to show the payment towards the arrears. This conclusion was based on 
the limited information that had been provided about the three mortgage accounts.
However, Mars later provided further information, which satisfied the investigator that Mr D 
hadnt been paying the full amount of the monthly repayment across all three accounts, plus 
£112 per month towards the arrears. She therefore didnt require Mars to re-work the 
accounts. The investigator was satisfied that there were three separate accounts, all of 
which had separate interest rates applied, and so payments across all three accounts varied 
in line with changes in the interest rates applied to each account.
The investigator noted Mr Ds vulnerability and health problems, and reminded Mars of its 
obligation to treat Mr D positively and sympathetically in relation both to litigation and to 
considering any proposal for a short settlement.
Mr D asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He maintains that he has been 
making the correct payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I am very sorry to note that Mr D has suffered several bereavements over the last 
few years, and that he is in poor health. I have no doubt that the worry about the mortgage 
has caused him some distress. I know how important this complaint is to Mr D, and so I 
know that what I have to say will be unwelcome news, as I am unable to uphold the 
complaint. But I have to put aside my natural feelings of empathy and decide the case on the 
basis of the evidence.
This complaint is against Mars, not the previous lender. I can only therefore consider whats 
happened since Mars took over the mortgage in 2021. That said, the account history with the 
previous lender is relevant, as it shows the position on the accounts at the time Mars took it 
over. These were as follows:
Account number: Balance £ Arrears £
Ending 079Z 18,352.27 3,462.49
Ending 079D 22,943.66    681.24
Ending 079V    8,557.52 2,281.17
Totals £49,853.45 £6,424.90
Mars has explained that account ending 079Z was previously 0790 and 079V was previously 
079E, and these suffixes were changed when forbearance on the account was put in place. 
The three sub-accounts are on separate variable interest rates, as explained by the 
investigator, with separate payments that fluctuate as the interest rates on those accounts 
rise or fall.
Mr Ds position is that he is required to pay £696 per month, which includes £120 towards 
the arrears. However, the monthly repayments for all three accounts are actually more than 
£696 per month in total. This means that Mr D hasnt been paying enough to cover the 
monthly repayments, and isnt paying anything off the arrears.
I am not going to go through the entire payment history on the account since Mars took it 
over. However, the available evidence persuades me that insufficient payments have been 
made to maintain both the monthly instalments and the £112 ordered by the court to be paid 
towards the arrears.
I know Mr D feels very strongly that the account balance isnt correct. I will explain that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt provide an auditing service, but its always open to 
Mr D to arrange to have his own audit of the account carried out by a qualified professional, 
such as an accountant or actuary. If the result of such an audit was to identify errors by Mars 
that have resulted in financial loss or detriment to Mr D, he could then raise a new complaint 
about this, and claim the cost of the audit as part of the redress. However, in all the circumstances, and based on the evidence I have seen, I am satisfied 
that the arrears balance on the account is accurate, given that the payments made havent 
been enough to cover both the monthly instalments and an amount off the arrears.
Going forward, I note Mr D is vulnerable, and I know Mars is aware of its obligation to treat 
him fairly and sympathetically. Balanced against that is the fact that Mars is entitled to be 
paid the amount due under the mortgage contract, and in compliance with the court order. 
Repossession is considered to be a last resort, and now that Mr D has been made aware of 
the actual position on all three accounts  as opposed to his previously mistaken belief that 
he was paying enough to cover the monthly instalments and £120 off the arrears  there is 
the basis for Mars to work with Mr D to reach a solution about payment of the arrears, 
hopefully without the need for further legal action.
Any solution is, of course, dependent on co-operation from both sides, so it is important Mr D 
is open to engaging with Mars to try to reach a resolution that is satisfactory to both parties, 
and which is based on the true position on the account, rather than the position Mr D 
believes is correct. In this regard, Mr D might find it helpful to have some advice from one of 
the free debt advisory services such as StepChange, Shelter or Citizens Advice. We can 
provide Mr D with contact details for those agencies, if hed like us to.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr D was hoping for. From what hes told us, Mr D sees 
wrongdoing, fraud and criminal action in almost everything Mars has done (or not done). 
Thats understandable when youre as close to the situation as Mr D is. But I have a different 
remit; I have to reach my decision on the basis of the evidence, without being swayed by 
emotion. And, having given careful consideration to everything Mr D and Mars have said, Im 
unable to find in his favour. 
My final decision
I am truly sorry if my decision causes Mr D any further distress, but I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023. 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman