DRN-1490178
 
Complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank Plc, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold him a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr K was sold PPI when he completed an application form in 1995.
The PPI cost around 69p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance and would have paid 
10% of the outstanding balance each month for up to 12 months per claim if Mr K was off 
work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. Mr K didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive checked if Mr K was eligible for the policy and from what I understand of       
Mr Ks circumstances at the time of the sale Im satisfied that he was eligible.
Barclaycard had to make it clear to Mr K that the PPI was optional and needed his consent 
before it could be applied to his account. Mr K says PPI was added without his knowledge. 
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale and so Ive thought about what Mr K 
and Barclays have told us and looked to the documents from the time of the sale to help me 
decide what is more likely to have happened. 
In particular Ive seen a copy of the application form Mr K completed at the time of the sale. 
This shows that Mr K was presented with two equally clear options to take or refuse PPI and 
I note that the option to take PPI has been selected. Mr K has signed this form. I havent 
seen sufficient evidence to be able to conclude that the option to take PPI was ticked by 
someone else without Mr Ks consent after the application had been submitted. 
So I while I appreciate what Mr K has told us, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its 
more likely that Barclaycard did make it clear to Mr K that the PPI was optional and that it 
was only applied to his account because he chose to take it out. Although I can of course 
appreciate why Mr K may no longer remember this given the length of time since the sale.Barclaycard say the sale took place in the branch. Mr K says this was a postal application 
and he wouldnt have discussed the application with a branch representative as he never 
banked with Barclays. If as Mr K says, this was a postal application then this would have 
meant that Barclaycard wouldnt have needed to check that the PPI was suitable for him. So 
by saying that it was a branch sale, Barclaycard are holding themselves to a higher bar 
which means Barclaycard are saying they should have taken steps to ensure the PPI was 
suitable for Mr K. I dont know if Barclaycard did all they should have done to check that the 
PPI was suitable for Mr K, but I think the PPI was suitable for Mr K anyway. I say this 
because:
 
The policy would have paid out in addition to Mr Ks existing employee benefits and 
would have done so for a longer period of time.
 
Mr K didnt appear to have been affected by the exclusions and restrictions in the 
policy which would have made it difficult for him to make a successful claim under the 
policy.
 
The PPI was relatively competitively priced and I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest it was unaffordable to Mr K at the time of the sale.
 
Mr K could have cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially if he no 
longer wanted or needed it.
 
Whether this was a branch sale or a postal sale, Barclaycard would have had to give Mr K 
clear information so that he could make an informed decision about whether or not to take 
PPI. Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr K wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But this in itself doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider 
whether better information would have put him off taking it out.
I dont think better information would have put him off taking PPI. I say this for the same 
reasons that I think the PPI was suitable for Mr K.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think Barclaycard mis-sold Mr K this 
PPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint against Barclays Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman