DRN-1153543
The complaint
Mr Q is unhappy Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has reduced the 
payment he is due following a claim on his term assurance policy. 
Mr Qs solicitor has brought this complaint on his behalf. For ease Ill refer to both their 
actions as that of Mr Q. 
What happened
In June 2007 Mr and Mrs Q completed an application for a decreasing term assurance policy 
which started in November 2007. 
Within this application under the section About you they were asked the following; 
Q.5 Have you used any tobacco products in the last 12 months? This includes cigarettes, 
cigars and pipes, or nicotine replacements.
Q.6 If you smoke cigarettes, how many do you, or did you, smoke on average each day?
[] If you do not smoke cigarettes or have not smoked cigarettes in the last 12 months,
please tick N/A.
Mrs Q answered No to question 5 and then N/A to question 6. 
Unfortunately, Mrs Q had to make a claim under the terminal illness section of the policy in 
July 2018. Whilst reviewing the claim L&G noted that Mrs Qs treating doctor mentioned that 
she was an occasional smoker. So it contacted Mrs Q asking her if she had smoked. Mrs Q 
said she only had the occasional cigarette between June 2006 and the end of November 
2007. And that she felt she had answered the questions about smoking truthfully. 
On 30 January 2019 L&G wrote to Mr Q letting him know it had decided to reduce the 
payment on the claim by £43,082 (from £242,869 to £199,787). It said Mrs Q shouldve 
answered yes to question 5 on the application form she completed. And if she had it 
wouldve applied smoker rates to her premium. 
Mr Q was unhappy with this decision so he made a complaint. He asked to see the 
calculation which showed how much more his monthly premium wouldve increased. He 
added that Mrs Q didnt consider herself a smoker and she answered the question truthfully. 
So there was no misrepresentation. 
On 1 March 2019 L&G sent a final response letter. It said Mrs Q had been careless by not 
making it aware she had smoked within the 12 month period before she applied for the 
policy. As a result it paid a proportionate settlement based upon the premiums it said Mrs Q 
wouldve paid if it had been aware she had smoked 12 months before applying for the policy. 
Sadly Mrs Q died on 6 May 2019 from her illness.Mr Q brought this complaint to this service on 13 May 2019. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint but decided not to uphold it. He felt that Mrs Q shouldve answered yes to 
question 5 above. And if she had he was satisfied L&G wouldve acted differently. So he said 
a proportionate settlement could be applied and was applied fairly to the settlement of the 
claim. 
Mr Q didnt agree with the investigators opinion. He said that an L&G questionnaires booklet 
is inconsistent with the smoking questions in the form they completed. And he would like to 
know how L&G interprets what a regular smoker is. He added that the questions it asks in 
relation to smoking currently are different and have more of an explanation on what 
constitutes a smoker.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to pass on my condolences to Mr Q. I was very sorry to read about Mrs Qs 
death. 
After carefully weighing up all the evidence presented by both sides, Im afraid Im 
not upholding this complaint. I know this will be very disappointing news for Mr Q. I want 
to assure him that I didnt take this decision lightly. While I dont want to add to his distress, I 
cant say L&G has acted unfairly by applying the proportionate settlement to his claim even 
though the question and answer are unrelated to the condition Mrs Q claimed for in 2018. Ill 
explain why.
Mr Q has provided various points for this service to consider. Id like to assure him that Ive 
read it all, but I wont be commenting on everything that hes mentioned. Ill be concentrating 
on what I think is important to the outcome of this complaint. 
As the sale of this policy was in 2007 I have considered the Association of British Insurers 
(ABI) Code on Non-Disclosure and Treating Customers Fairly (the Code).
In order to ask L&G to pay the claim in full I would need to be satisfied the late Mrs Q hadnt 
non-disclosed when applying for this policy or that it was innocent. Under the section Notes 
on innocent non-disclosure or misrepresentation, the Code states that typical characteristics 
of innocent non-disclosure or misrepresentation are;
7.1.1 The question was not clear enough  any ambiguous wording should be construed in 
favour of the customer. 
7.1.2 The question did not apply clearly to the facts in question. 
7.1.3 It was reasonable for the customer to have overlooked the omitted information  for 
example, a minor childhood ailment. 
Looking at the above requirements, Im not persuaded any of these situations apply to Mrs 
Qs circumstances at the time she completed the application. 
The Code explains that innocent non-disclosure includes whether a reasonable person 
wouldve considered that the information wasnt relevant to the insurer. And the non-
disclosure wouldve resulted in a different underwriting outcome. The Code says a negligent non-disclosure can include an understandable oversight. I have 
no doubt Mrs Q acted honestly and applied for the policy in good faith. I can understand why 
Mrs Q interpreted the question as she did and why she answered no.  But I have to 
consider whether a reasonable person wouldve said they had used tobacco within the last 
12 months at the time the application was being completed. Overall Im satisfied they 
wouldve mentioned it. I believe the question was clear and Mrs Q has confirmed that she 
did smoke occasionally. I understand the argument being made to this service by Mr Q that 
as an average Mrs Q barely smoked. But L&G wanted to know if any tobacco had been 
used. And after reading Mrs Qs statement, Im satisfied it had been used 12 months before 
the application and so shouldve been disclosed to L&G. 
The underwriting guidance Ive seen (which must be applied to all customers fairly and 
consistently), says that smoker rates are applied to anyone who used tobacco within the 
last twelve months of their application. So Im satisfied that had Mrs Q made L&G aware she 
had used tobacco products when applying for the policy these rates wouldve been applied. 
This wouldve led to a different underwriting outcome under the Code. So I believe L&G has 
fairly applied the smoker rates to this policy.  
As Im satisfied tobacco use shouldve been disclosed at question 5 of the application, 
I dont need to consider whether question 6 and the answer given by Mrs Q at the time was 
fair or in line with the ABI guidelines. 
Ive reviewed the proportionate settlement L&G has applied. Having done so, I agree with 
our investigator that this has been applied fairly here. It has taken into account that a higher 
premium wouldve been paid. And because this was a decreasing term assurance policy, the 
amount of cover wouldve reduced from the time of the application to the date the claim was 
paid. So Im satisfied the proportionate settlement is fair in the circumstances. 
I note Mr Q mentioned inconsistencies with another questionnaire used by L&G at the time 
and that the questions L&G use now are different for smokers. However, I can only consider 
the application Mr and Mrs Q completed at the time under the Code. And in my opinion, the 
question posed about tobacco use was clear.
So Im satisfied L&G has not treated Mr Q unfairly or acted outside of the relevant 
regulations here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2020.
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman