DRN-2835174
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Nationwide Building Society continued to collect premiums on a 
decreasing term cover policy after it was cancelled in 2016.
What happened
Mrs P, along with her husband Mr P, met with Nationwide in late 2015 to discuss protecting 
a new mortgage as they planned to move. The recommendation for protection was initially in 
joint names. After the application was submitted the insurance company deferred a decision 
to offer terms on Mr Ps life. The application was amended to provide £35,000 life and critical 
illness cover on Mrs Ps life only. The policy started on 1 April 2016.
Mr P, who is acting as a representative for Mrs P, says he called Nationwide in April 2016 to 
cancel the policy. Nationwide say theyve no record of a call from Mr P, or any request for 
the policy to be cancelled. Mr and Mrs P say when they applied for further borrowing with 
Nationwide in 2020 they became aware the policy was still in place and complained. 
Nationwide provided a final response to the complaint. They said the mortgage adviser who 
recommended the policy didnt recall any telephone conversation with Mr P to cancel the 
policy. Nationwide say they checked their records and there is no record of a call from Mr P. 
They added there was no cancellation received from the insurer either. They didnt uphold 
the complaint.
Mrs P wasnt satisfied with the response from Nationwide and brought a complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and thought the policy was 
suitable to protect the borrowing applied for, but that there wasnt enough evidence to 
persuade her the policy had been cancelled in April 2016.
Mr P responded on behalf of Mrs P. He says Mrs P didnt agree to take out the policy, and 
as he didnt re-apply for life cover this supports they didnt want it. Mr P says a life cover 
policy on Mrs Ps life only is unsuitable and that no adviser wouldve recommended it. He 
also feels the low value of the mortgage meant the policy wasnt needed. Mr P also says 
there is no authorisation from Mrs P to start the policy, and that Nationwide said all their calls 
are recorded but for some reason they cant find a record of his call in April 2016.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs P will be disappointed with my final decision, but for very much the 
same reasons as our investigator Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill now explain 
why.
Mr P says a single life policy on a joint mortgage is unsuitable, so I will address this issue 
first. Im satisfied the policy was suitable for their mortgage as it protected the loan balance 
for the term of the mortgage, and the cover reduced in line with the projected outstanding 
balance. The policy was arranged on the life of Mrs P as the insurer wouldnt offer terms on 
Mr Ps life at the time. This doesnt mean a recommendation that Mrs P should have cover 
was unreasonable. The mortgage wouldve been repaid if she died or had a critical illness 
during the term of the policy. Im also satisfied that even though the mortgage was only 
£35,000, the recommendation was reasonable as there seems to be a likely need for life and 
critical illness cover for this debt. I dont consider it was unreasonable for a mortgage adviser 
to recommend this policy.
Ive seen the recommendation letter Nationwide sent and this states Mr and Mrs P accepted 
the single life policy at the time. I consider this persuades me Mrs P would reasonably have 
been aware the policy would start when the mortgage started, and this is what happened.
I will now address the crux of Mrs Ps complaint. Mr P says he called Nationwide in April 
2016 to cancel the policy. Nationwide say theyve no record of this call. Its clear there are 
two very different recollections of the events around this time. I cant be sure what happened 
at this time or which version carries more weight. So, I will use the evidence Ive seen to 
conclude what is likely to have happened here.
I understand Mrs P thinks she never accepted the policy, but the cancellation notice from the 
insurer wouldve told her the policy was on risk. This notice, sent around 1 April 2016, 
wouldve included instructions on how to cancel the policy. Nationwide have checked their 
records and there is no evidence Mrs P or Mr P cancelled the policy. The insurer has also 
told Nationwide they didnt receive a cancellation notice. Mr P says he didnt call the insurer 
but called the mortgage adviser. However, there isnt enough evidence for me to be 
reasonably sure this is what happened. For example, there are no call notes from 
Nationwide nor call records from Mr P to show he called the mortgage adviser. So, as Mr 
and Mrs Ps recollections and Nationwides mortgage advisors recollections are 
contradictory, I dont consider theres enough supporting evidence to persuade me a call 
was made to Nationwide or the insurer to cancel the policy.
From April 2016 until late 2020, the insurer wouldve been taking monthly premiums from Mr 
and Mrs Ps bank account. Mr P says it was only for a small amount of £9.33 per month and 
they assumed the policy had been cancelled. But theres nothing to support either the 
insurer or Nationwide confirmed the policy was cancelled. I wouldve expected some 
confirmation the policy had been cancelled at the outset if this had been the case. The fact 
that payments were collected for four years adds some weight to my decision that Mrs P is 
likely to have accepted the policy was in place and her life was protected. Mr P says 
Nationwide shouldve known he and Mrs P didnt want cover when he chose not to re-apply 
for a policy on his life. I acknowledge Mr Ps view here, but I dont consider its a view I would 
support as I consider it would be unfair for me to say Nationwide should reasonably have 
reached that conclusion. 
In summary, Ive decided that its more likely Nationwide didnt receive notification to cancel 
the policy and I dont consider they did anything wrong here. I appreciate Mrs P feels that 
she shouldnt have to pay for a policy she didnt want but it was a suitable policy, and for the 
time it was in place Mrs P did have the benefits the policy provided.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman