DRN-4312494
The complaint
Mr M received advice regarding transferring his deferred benefits in a defined benefit 
pension scheme (DBS) from WPS ADVISORY Ltd (WPS). He complains about the way he 
was charged for the service and that the process was unfair giving him the wrong outcome 
because WPS failed to understand his circumstances. 
What happened
Mr M had deferred benefits in a DBS with his employer. And his employer had 
agreed with WPS to offer employees financial advice for an agreed fee. Mr M 
contacted WPS to accept this offer and in December 2021 started the process of 
reviewing his DBS.
During December 2021 WPS sent Mr M a fact-find questionnaire and discuss the fee 
for advice over the phone with Mr M.
On 6 January 2022 Mr M signs WPSs client agreement. This set out that a fee of 
£875 + VAT would be charged for advising on the suitability of Mr Ms DBS transfer.
On 18 January 2022 WPS had a call with Mr M that lasted over 90 minutes. Its 
adviser went through Mr Ms circumstances and indicated that it would, most likely be 
in his best interests not to transfer his deferred benefits. The adviser explained this 
was because Mr M didnt have an immediate need to access benefits from his 
pension and that it wasnt in his interests to take on investment risk unnecessarily at 
that time. It was understood by Mr M and WPS that Mr M had yet to provide WPS 
with an up to date cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) for the DBS.
Mr M called WPS back a couple of weeks later saying that he accepted what the 
adviser said and that hed leave his DBS where it was.
In July 2022 Mr M sent an up to date CETV to WPS. So WPS carried out the transfer 
analysis for him and obtained a Transfer Value Comparator (TVC). Then provided 
him with a written recommendation not to transfer his DBS.
Mr M contacted WPS towards the end of 2022 explaining that hed reconsidered and 
wanted to transfer his DBS. He explained his personal circumstances again, 
indicating health concerns for him and his wife that were not discussed previously. 
Mr M went on to complain about the earlier advice and the fee hed been charged.
WPS looked into what happened and didnt uphold his complaint. It said that the fee 
had been clearly explained and agreed to. And that its advice had been tailored to 
the circumstances that Mr M had shared with them. And was suitable given what it 
understood at that time.
Mr M didnt agree and brought his complaint to us.
After investigating, our investigator concluded that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
He thought that WPS had complied with regulatory rules in the way it charged Mr M 
and that the recommendation it gave him wasnt unsuitable for his circumstances.
Mr M doesnt agree. He reiterated that WPS provided its suitability report without 
understanding his attitude for investment risk, and that he thought that it wasnt fair to 
rely on the information it obtained in January 2022 in the recommendation it gave in 
July 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The regulators Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) has rules and guidance for 
advisers thats specifically about pension transfers under COBS 19.1. And in COBS 9 
there are rules and guidance about providing personal recommendations to clients. 
And within COBS and the Principles of Businesses (PRIN) there are clear obligations 
on WPS to act in Mr Ms best interests. Ive considered all of these as well as what 
would have been good industry practice in determining whether WPS have done 
anything wrong in this case.
WPS had to ensure that the service it was offering Mr M was clear and he 
understood how much that would cost. Which Im satisfied it did in a fair and 
reasonable way. It explained the fee on the phone and in its client agreement which 
Mr M considered and then signed.
COBS 19 dictates that WPS had to start from a position of assuming that a transfer 
of this type wouldnt be suitable unless it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer 
was in Mr Ms best interests. And based on the initial information that it obtained, in 
the questionnaire and the 90 minute phone call, I think that it was reasonable for 
WPS to conclude that there wasnt a compelling reason that made transferring in 
Mr Ms best interests. 
When WPS were in possession of a CETV it was able to provide full and detailed 
written advice. This included the TVC and transfer analysis that COBS 19 required. 
This analysis highlighted that the CETV offered relatively poor value for the benefits 
that were being sacrificed. Which WPS clearly explained. And tended to support the 
recommendation that it was more suitable for Mr M not to transfer.
I dont think it was unreasonable for WPS to act on the facts it had been provided in 
January 2022. Its later written recommendation summarised the information that the 
advice was based on. If it was incorrect this could have been raised.
I have listened to the call that WPS had with Mr M and his wife in November 2022. I 
think that, on balance, the issues that were raised by Mr M were things that WPS 
hadnt been told at the information gathering stage of the process. So anything in that 
call that may lead to a different recommendation being given, isnt evidence that the 
recommendation that WPS provided wasnt suitable at the time it was given.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. I would like to reassure Mr M that, where 
there were issues he raised or commented on, I have considered them all. He will notice that 
I havent commented on every specific point. Thats because our services aim is to provide 
a quick resolution with the minimum formality. So Ive focused on the things that I consider had the greatest bearing on what I think is the crux of Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint about WPS ADVISORY Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman