DRN-3104172
The complaint
Miss O and Mr T complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the 
claim they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to 
a solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
What happened
In or around October 2018, Miss O and Mr T were contacted by a representative of a 
company Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be 
installed at their home. After being visited by a representative of P, Miss O and Mr T decided 
to purchase the system and finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In June 2020, Miss O and Mr T made a claim under section 75 of the Act to Shawbrook. 
They said that P had made a number of representations about the system that had turned 
out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Miss O and Mr T to 
enter into the contract with P. They have made the following points:
The sales representative didnt put anything in writing in person at their house.
The feed in tariff (FIT) would provide enough income to cover the finance agreement 
repayments costs with some left over.
They felt pressured to sign documentation without time to consider their decision.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Miss O and Mr T or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be 
upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Miss O and Mr T and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
Miss O and Mr T didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
The sales representative sold the system in a way that would solve money issues.
They felt preyed upon.
They were advised they couldnt cancel the contract within 14 days as they didnt 
receive the FIT payment until three months later.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Miss O and Mr T paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook 
agrees that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Miss O and Mr T could 
claim against Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P 
in the same way they couldve claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into 
account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Miss O 
and Mr T and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both Miss O, Mr T and 
Shawbrook. These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar 
Quotation. Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged 
representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Miss O and Mr Ts recollection of the 
sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.FIT payments
Miss O and Mr T have alleged that they were told the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided 
by P and considered whether this supports what Miss O and Mr T have said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Miss O and Mr T could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Miss O and Mr T could expect to receive a 
total FIT income in year one of £145.84.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Miss O and Mr T could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £204.01 and, when taking into account 
the optional extras chose by Miss O and Mr T the combined income and savings in year one 
is shown as £416.38. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months, as this is the 
length of the loan that Miss O and Mr T entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the 
loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £114.15. For each year of the 15-year loan it 
shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 
months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £114.15, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year.
 
 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Miss O and Mr T could expect to receive from 
the system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the 
monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately 
sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that they were 
told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Miss O and Mr T that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Miss O and Mr T were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a duration of time. 
Page 13 of the quote has a table detailing the performance over 25 years. This shows that 
between years 21 to 25 the overall benefits that Miss O and Mr T could expect to receive 
would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Miss O and Mr T that the system would pay for 
itself between years 21 and 25 as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue 
statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, 
and they subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Miss O and Mr T. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the 
system is expected to produce 2,250.58 kWh a year.
I have looked at Miss O and Mr Ts FIT statements and can see that their system, on 
average, has generated 2,539.97 kWh. This is more than estimated by P at the point of sale, 
so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2017 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
explain why they havent been receiving the financial returns they may have been expecting 
from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling 
predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has been 
correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2005 to 2017. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Miss O and 
Mr T couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the 
returns may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that 
this was due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Miss O and Mr T 
entered into the contract.
Miss O & Mr T said they lost their ability to cancel the agreement within 14 days as FIT 
payments werent immediately received. However, given my findings above, I dont believe 
the FIT payments wouldve suggested that the system wasnt performing as P had 
estimated. So, this wouldnt necessarily have given cause to cancel the agreement. In any 
event, I wouldnt have expected FIT payments to have been received within the initial 14-day 
cancellation period.
Workmanship issues
Miss O and Mr T have since expressed dissatisfaction with part of the installation work 
relating to the waterproofing of an external cable entering their home. I cant see this formed 
part of Miss O and Mr Ts original complaint. So, P wouldnt have had the opportunity to 
address this. I would recommend that Miss O and Mr T take up any subsequent 
workmanship complaints direct with P in order to give it opportunity to address them.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Miss O and Mr 
T to enter into the contract for the system, and Ive found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss O and Mr T complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O and Mr T 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman