DRN-2004328
The complaint
Mr S complains that Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans agreed loans for him which 
were unaffordable. 
What happened
Mr S took the following guarantor loans with Buddy Loans:
Date Amount Term Monthly 
RepaymentPurpose
Loan 1 4 May 2016 £1,500 18 months £113.07 Debt consolidation
Loan 2 9 December 2016 £2,500 2 years £154.54 Debt consolidation
Loan 3 2 November 2017 £4,000 3 years £195.16 Debt consolidation
Loan 4 22 June 2018 £6,500 5 years £256.91 Debt consolidation
Mr S says when he applied for each loan, Buddy Loans didnt carry out proper checks to 
ensure he could afford the repayments. He says if it had done so, it would have seen he 
several loans and other credit elsewhere, his expenses were rough guesses and he had a 
gambling problem. 
Buddy Loans said says it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks in line with its 
usual process based on the information Mr S provided, and it had no concerns about his 
ability to afford the loan. Mr S disagreed and referred his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She said that given the amounts, duration 
and monthly repayments, she thought Buddy Loans should have carried out more thorough 
checks. She felt if it had done so, it would have refused to lend to Mr S. Our investigator 
asked Buddy Loans to put matters right. 
Mr S agreed with our investigator, but Buddy Loans didnt. As there was no agreement, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit on our website  
including the key relevant rules, guidance good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
this approach when deciding this complaint.
Buddy Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend to Mr S 
irresponsibly by carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks. I think there are key 
questions I need to consider in order to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint:
Did Buddy Loans carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr S was in a position to sustainably repay the loan?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time 
and did Buddy Loans make a fair lending decision?
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some other way?
Buddy Loans was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment. This assessment 
is sometimes referred to as an affordability check or affordability assessment. The purpose 
of the assessment is for Buddy Loans to think about whether repaying the loan sustainably 
would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for the customer. In other words, it wasnt 
about Buddy Loans assessing the likelihood of it being repaid, but it had to consider the 
impact of the loan repayments on Mr S. The fact that the loans were guaranteed by a third 
party and the potential of Buddy Loans to pursue the guarantor instead of Mr S doesnt alter 
or lessen the obligation.
Buddy Loans had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr S would be able to repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that it 
had to do, but it could take into account several different things such as the amount and 
length of the loan, the amount of the monthly repayments and the overall circumstances of 
the borrower.
Taking all that into account, I think a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough where:
a customer as a low income (because it may make it more difficult to make loan 
payments of a set amount from a low level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (because it may be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment for a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (because the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
higher, and the customer is obliged to make payments for a longer period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (because of the risk of repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing has become or was becoming 
unsustainable).
Did Buddy Loans carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
Loan 1
When Mr S applied for loan 1, he declared a monthly income of £1,200 and expenses of 
£861. He said he paid £168 to creditors - including the repayment for this loan of £113. 
Buddy Loans calculated that this left him with a monthly disposable income of approximately 
£170. So I can understand why Buddy Loans felt the new loan would be affordable for him. 
But Mr S tells us that the expenditure details Buddy Loans gathered were based on rough 
guesses. Ive listened to the call where Buddy Loans asked him about his expenditure. With 
the exception of his board (he lived with parents) and motoring expenses about which he 
was certain, Mr S seems fairly vague about where his money goes. 
For example, when asked if he spent any money on busses trains trams taxisvisiting 
family, friendsduring the course of the month he said err its sporadic so I never know. If I 
go out or whatever I dont know. The adviser asked how often do you go out? and he 
replied err every couple of weeksId saytwenty five quid a month on taxis probably. The 
advisor then moved on to food, clothing, toiletries going out. Mr S said it dependsI 
roughly spend about fifty pound a week [for lunches]. The adviser asks and what about 
other things like clothing toiletries, going out things like that to which he replies errIve no ideaId probably say about another sixty quid a week. 
The rules lenders must follow are set out by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority, in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). At the time Buddy Loans agreed this 
loan, CONC 5.3.1 4(b) said it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its 
assessment of the customers income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer. Ive seen no evidence that Buddy Loans asked further questions to 
satisfy itself that Mr S would be able to sustainably repay the loan before agreeing to lend. 
It seems to me from the conversation outlined above that Mr S didnt have a good handle on 
where his money goes. Given the rules for lenders which Ive set out, I think it would have 
been reasonable for Buddy Loans to carry out some further checks to try to verify the figures 
Mr S had quoted to ensure the loan was affordable for him. 
In a call earlier in the process, Buddy Loans told Mr S it would have a look at his credit file 
and asked if he knew what was on it. Mr S said his file was shocking  Im trying to get it 
better. I went through quite a lot of things when I was younger and its catching up with me 
nowadays. The adviser says he could see there is a fair bit of adverse credit on 
theretheres three CCJs [County Court Judgements] on it arent there. He goes on to say, 
it doesnt look too bad, I mean, the CCJs Ive looked at are putting you just over indebted 
and confirmed the new loan was just for debt consolidation which Mr S confirmed. The 
adviser didnt explore in any detail how this loan would be used to reduce his indebtedness 
and confirmed he was happy with everything. 
Looking at Mr Ss credit file there were seven defaulted accounts totalling £6,370 and three 
CCJs totalling £2,183. Most of the defaults were from 2011 which does tie in with what Mr S 
had said about troubles when he was younger. The CCJs were more recent. On top of 
these debts, he had active account balances of £7,062. 
Mr S said the loan was for debt consolidation, but neither of the advisers he spoke to 
gathered any information about which debts he was looking to repay. The only discussion 
relating to the purpose of the loan (aside from confirming it was for debt consolidation) was 
to improve Mr Ss credit file. It seems therefore he was seeking to repay some of the defaults 
or CCJs. But given the balances of the defaults and CCJs a loan of £1,500 was unlikely to 
achieve what Mr S was seeking. Furthermore, defaulted debts and CCJs dont generally 
attract interest, but Mr S had applied for a loan priced at 49.9% APR. It doesnt appear to 
have been in his interest to take a loan at this price to repay debts which no longer attract 
interest.
Taking all the above into account, Im not satisfied that Buddy Loans carried out reasonable 
and proportionate checks for Loan 1. 
Further loans
We can see from the table above, that Mr S applied for and received a further three loans 
from Buddy Loans over the next two years. Each one was for more than the last, over a 
longer term, with higher repayments and for the same purpose; debt consolidation. 
Throughout that period, most of Mr Bs circumstances remained the same. There were small 
increases in his income, and Buddy Loans obtained payslips to support that. His credit file 
remained largely unchanged until Loan 4 when most the defaults had dropped off his 
records as theyd passed the six-year time limit. There were also new credit agreements in 
place each time. Ive listened to some of the calls Buddy Loans had with Mr S when he applied for the 
subsequent loans. For loan 2, after an initial enquiry from him about whether a top up was 
possible, Buddy Loans confirmed he was eligible for a top up and gave an outline of how it 
would work. The advisor asked Mr S how much he was looking to borrow and Mr S said Im 
not sure, Im just looking at the options really. The adviser asked if he had any options in 
mind, but again Mr S wasnt sure. 
Mr S then submitted an application for loan 2 and Buddy Loans called him to go through an 
income and expenditure. By this time, Mr S said he was paying less to his parents, and 
when asked about other items such as food, clothing and toiletries Mr S said, Ive no idea 
and when prompted by the adviser about what hed said last time, he agreed £30 was about 
right. When asked what his plans were for the extra £1,500 or so he was borrowing (once 
loan 1 was repaid) he said he wanted to pay off his credit card. Looking at his credit file, I 
can see he had two, with balances of around £800 in total, so it seems there was around 
£700 of new money being applied for.
Taking all the above into account  including what it knew about Mr S from loan 1, Im not 
satisfied that Buddy Loans carried out reasonable and proportionate checks for loan 2.
The subsequent applications for loans 3 and 4 followed a similar pattern. I think the increase 
in value, repayments and terms of the loans, coupled with further credit agreements being 
taken out elsewhere, ought to have led Buddy Loans to look further at Mr Ss finances before 
agreeing the loans. It follows that, Im not satisfied that Buddy Loans carried out reasonable 
and proportionate checks for loans 3 and 4.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time and did Buddy 
Loans make a fair lending decision?
Ive outlined above some of the circumstances which I think ought to have led Buddy Loans 
to carry out further checks on Mr Ss finances. I think it would have been reasonable for it to 
get a detailed understanding of his expenditure, for example by asking to see several 
months of his bank statements in light of what appears to be a reliance on credit.
Mr S has provided us with copies of his bank statements for periods shortly before each loan
was taken. A careful review of the statements brings in to question some of the information
provided to Buddy Loans.
There are a significant number of gambling transactions showing on each statement and a 
reliance of rolling credit facilities to keep his account working. It is clear he is relying on credit 
facilities to meet his obligations to other credit providers. For a credit agreement to be repaid 
sustainably, CONC 5.3.1 (6) says is should be repayable (a) without undue difficulties, in 
particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet the repayments;
I think if further checks had been carried out by Buddy Loans, it ought to have realised that 
none of the loans it gave to Mr S would have been repayable on a sustainable basis. It 
follows that I dont think Buddy Loans made a fair lending decision when it agreed to lend to 
Mr S. 
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some other way?Ive carefully read, listened to and thought about all the evidence provided by each party to 
this complaint. Having done so, I dont think Buddy Loans has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr S in some other way. 
But I do think Buddy Loans should have refused to lend to Mr M, so I am upholding his 
complaint about the loans.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business to 
put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the mistake it made hadnt 
happened, as far as is reasonably practical. 
In this case, that would mean putting Mr S in the position he would be in now if he hadnt 
been given the loans. Mr S was given the loans and used the money.
So, I think Buddy Loans should: 
calculate the total amount of money Mr S received as a result of having been given 
all 4 loans and deduct the repayments Mr S has made. 
oIf this results in Mr S having paid more than he received, the overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date 
the overpayments were made until the date of settlement).*
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then Buddy Loans should attempt 
to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr S. 
remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ss credit file regarding loans 1 to 4.
*If Buddy Loans considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans 
should put things right as Ive described above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman