DRN-1450175
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs V have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr D and Mrs V took out the PPI in 1996 at the same time as arranging their mortgage in a 
branch of Nationwide. Although it was a joint mortgage, the PPI was set up just to cover Mr 
D for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D and Mrs V disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr D and Mrs Vs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr D and Mrs V say that they cant remember how the policy was sold to them but they say 
they would have thought that it was a condition of the mortgage.
Ive seen a copy of the mortgage application form that was generated during the meeting. 
There is a separate section for PPI. It asks applicants to read the PPI leaflet before 
answering the questions. Then it asks: Do you want PaymentGuard? with a yes and no 
box to either request or decline the policy. The yes box has been ticked in this case. It is a 
computer generated tick, but that is typical of mortgage interview forms where the questions 
are asked by the adviser and then the form is printed out at the end. From what we know of 
Nationwides sales processes at the time, the PPI was usually presented as optional, and 
the layout and wording of the form reinforces that. I have no reason to conclude that 
something different happened in this case.
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr D and Mrs Vs 
recollection of events has faded  and indeed they have said that they dont really remember 
much about the sale. Looking at the available evidence, I consider that Mr D and Mrs V 
probably decided to buy the PPI, knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer 
remember doing so.
Nationwide says that this was a non-advised sale. I dont know whether Nationwide advised 
Mr D and Mrs V to buy the policy or not, but it doesnt really make a difference to my 
decision. If Nationwide did recommend the policy to Mr D and Mrs V, then it would have 
needed to ensure that it met their needs. And from what I know of the couples 
circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for them.Mrs V wasnt working at the time, so it makes sense that the PPI was set up just to cover Mr 
D. Mr D would have received at least six months pay from his employer if he was off sick. 
But the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than 
he would have received full pay for. Mr D and Mrs V say they had some savings. But the 
policy would have allowed them to retain much of these, or use them to cover other 
outgoings at what would have been a difficult time.
I can see from the mortgage application form that the adviser had originally written a 
mortgage benefit amount of £400 per month. However this has been crossed through and 
the amount of £200 is handwritten beside it  which has then be initialled and dated by Mr D. 
There was also an additional benefit amount of £100 which remained unchanged. So 
actually the total benefit was £300 per month. It seems to me that there must have been 
some discussion about the required benefit amount which was then reduced at Mr Ds 
request.  Overall Im satisfied that Mr D and Mrs V had a need for the policy and could have 
benefited from it at what would have been a difficult time (and indeed they did benefit from it 
in 1999 when Mr D made a claim for unemployment that was paid out for three months. This 
was after Mr D had amended the policy in 1998 to increase the benefit amount to £400 per 
month).
Nationwide also needed to provide Mr D and Mrs V with sufficient information for them to be 
able to make an informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for them. I can 
see that the Mortgage Offer letter detailed the cost as being £19.83 per month. So Im 
satisfied that they would have known what theyd be paying for the policy. I can also see that 
the policy document was enclosed with the mortgage offer.
I consider that Mr D and Mrs V would have known something about the policy  that it would 
provide towards the cost of their mortgage repayments if Mr D was unable to work due to 
accident, sickness or unemployment  because I dont think theyd have taken it out without 
knowing anything at all about it.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt provide as much information about the PPI as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr D wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I consider that Mr D and Mrs V had an interest in the policy and decided to 
buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused them to change their minds. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr D and Mrs Vs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman