DRN-3813722
The complaint
Mr M complained about the service provided by Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook). 
He said the business failed to notify him that his fixed rate bond was maturing in time, 
for him to renew. He said because of this he has lost out financially and would like 
Shawbrook to pay his losses to him. 
What happened
Mr M held a two-year fixed term bond with Shawbrook. The bond matured on               
17 January 2022. Shawbrook sent a reminder letter to Mr M about renewing his bond. 
This was dated 5 January 2022. Mr M said he received this letter on 31 January 2022. 
Shawbrook sent a reminder letter, and it dated this 10 January 2022. Mr M said he 
received the reminder letter on 19 February 2022. During this period, Mr M received two 
statements from Shawbrook, dated 18 and 26 January 2022. Mr M said he received 
these statements on 22 and 31 January 2022 respectively. 
Mr M said that he received his first reminder letter too late, and he didnt receive it until 
after the bond had matured. He said this led to him not renewing his bond and receiving 
a much lower temporary interest rate for his money. Mr M said he was unaware of his 
bond maturing until he received his statement on 22 January 2022. He said he phoned 
Shawbrook up on this date and renewed his bond. He said between the date his bond 
matured to the date he renewed it, he had a few days that he was receiving less in 
interest, and he would like this back from Shawbrook as he thinks it is to blame for not 
notifying him sooner. 
Mr M also has described several occasions where he said he received poor customer 
service when he tried to resolve his complaint. He describes a time when a phone call 
he made to Shawbrook ended abruptly. Mr M said he also spoke to a staff member at 
Shawbrook, who said she would make sure the interest was back dated so that he 
wouldnt lose out. But, Mr M said, Shawbrook has not done this. 
Shawbrook replied to Mr M and said it sent out its maturity options pack on 5 January 2022 
to him before the maturity date of the bond. It said it also sent out a reminder on 10 January 
2022. It said it had sent the letters out in good time, but it couldnt be held responsible for 
delivery. It said it had no record of a call from Mr M about back dated interest. It didnt think it 
had done anything wrong with sending out the letters, but it did say it was sorry to learn Mr 
M had a negative experience in trying to contact it. It offered £25 in compensation for the 
inconvenience it caused Mr M.
Mr M wasnt happy with Shawbrooks response so referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint and didnt recommend that it be upheld. He said he 
didnt think Shawbrook had acted unfairly or unreasonably by posting the two letters in 
question when it did. He said he listened to the call Mr M made to renew his bond and didnt 
hear Shawbrook agreeing to back date interest. He concluded he was satisfied Shawbrook 
hadnt caused the loss that Mr M had described. So, he didnt uphold his complaint.  
Mr B didnt agree. He reiterated Shawbrook were at fault for not notifying him about the 
maturity of the bond in good time. He also said he made three calls, the one the 
investigator listened to on 24 January 2022, along with one on 31 January 2022 where he 
discussed the back dated interest and a third call on 10 February 2022 where he didnt 
pass the security questions from Shawbrook. 
Mr M asked for an ombudsman review and so his complaint comes to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld Mr Ms complaint, and these are my findings that explain why:
Mr Ms two-year fixed term bond matured on 17 January 2022, and he didnt 
renew his funds into a new term from that date. There was several days where 
he received less interest than he wouldve done if he had renewed his bond in 
time. The detail of what happened here are not in dispute between the parties. 
What is left for me to consider is whether Shawbrook were at fault for the delay in 
Mr M being able to renew his bond or not and whether it agreed with him that it 
would back date interest.  
Shawbrook said it sent a maturity options pack to Mr M on 5 January 2022 and a 
reminder letter on 10 January 2022. I can see from the information it has sent 
that on balance, it did send the letters on the dates it said it did. Shawbrook said 
it handed the letters over to a third party to deliver to Mr M. 
I have seen the dates that Shawbrook sent the letters and the lengthy gap in time 
between these dates and those that Mr M said he then received them. Crucially 
these dates that Mr M said he received the letters were after the bond matured. 
But I dont think Shawbrook are responsible for the lengthy delay that Mr M said 
occurred here. It is entitled to think the letters would be received in good time by 
Mr M and before the maturity date of the bond. It had sent them with enough time 
to get to Mr M, if either letter had been delivered within the expected time frame 
for the postal service that it paid for. So, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint on this 
issue. I dont think Shawbrook did anything wrong here. 
Mr M said he agreed with Shawbrook that it would back date interest from the 
date he renewed his bond back to the date the previous bond had matured. Mr M 
said this would mean he wouldnt be out of pocket. Mr M said he made this call 
on 31 January 2022. 
Shawbrook has told our service that it didnt agree to back date the interest and 
has no record of this call. It has provided a record from its system that shows 
contact between itself and Mr M. Its a record of calls and any other 
correspondence relating to it and Mr M. I can see on this list that Mr Ms call to 
renew his bond is on the list. But there isnt a call listed on 31 January 2022. I cant be sure what happened here, but where there is a dispute between two 
parties about what has or hasnt happened, I would need to see either some 
supporting evidence or more detailed recollection of what occurred. I havent 
been able to see either, so on balance, I cant safely conclude that it was agreed 
between the parties that Shawbrook would back date interest. With this being the 
case, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint about this either.  
Finally, Shawbrook has offered to pay a £25 payment for distress and inconvenience caused 
in relation to poor service that Mr M says he received when he tried to contact it. I think this 
offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his complaint.
In conclusion I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint about the maturity of his bond. But I have 
concluded Shawbrooks offer of compensation for poor service is fair and reasonable. It now 
needs to pay this amount to Mr M. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr M, but I hope he will at least feel 
that his complaint has been fully considered and that the way I've set things out helps to 
explain how I've reached my conclusions.
My final decision
Shawbrook Bank Limited has already made an offer to settle the complaint and I think this is 
fair in all the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that Shawbrook Bank Limited should pay £25 to Mr M, if it hasnt done so 
already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman