DRN-3251472
The complaint
Mr K complains that his motorhome hasnt been restored to its condition prior to his accident 
and that the repairs werent completed in a timely manner. He wants his motorhome to be 
brought up to the standard it was before the accident and wants compensation for the poor 
management of his claim.
What happened
Mr K had an accident in his motorhome in December 2018 which caused damage to the 
nearside front and roof area. He made a claim through his insurer, Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited (LV) to repair the damage caused. 
LV instructed a repairer to fix Mr Ks motorhome. However, the first repairer didnt carry out 
all of the repairs and the motorhome was transferred to another repairer to carry out the 
work in April 2019. Mr K says that LV sent his motorhome to the first repairer despite the fact 
that he had told LV at the outset that the assessor from this repairer had advised him that it 
couldnt do all the repairs. Mr K had to contact the repairer each month to get updates and 
says he was lied to about the progress. Although he was told by the repairer that the roof 
had been fully repaired, when this was checked after four months it appeared this hadnt 
been done, meaning that rain, snow and frost had been allowed to penetrate the vehicle for 
four months. He said that when the motorhome was moved to the second repairer the inside 
was still covered in broken glass and there were footprints from the firemen on the walls. 
The motorhome was returned to Mr K from the second repairer in May 2019 however the 
work was still incomplete. LV sent out its assessor who agreed that there were a number of 
faults and the motorhome was sent back to the repairer to put all the faults right. When the 
motorhome was returned there were still seven faults from the list which hadnt been 
repaired, one of which being that the alarms were not working. Again, LV sent its assessor 
out who agreed and the motorhome was sent back to the repairer again. When the repairer 
brought the motorhome back it did not inform either LV or Mr K despite LV telling the repairer 
it would need to see the work. When the motorhome came back the footprints on the wall 
had not been touched and the fuel tank was empty. LV visited and again asked the repairer 
to put things right. The repairer was unable to clean the marks from the wall as this would 
damage the wallpaper. LV told Mr K to find somebody to finish this job and it would pay the 
bill but Mr K said he had been unable to find a valet who will take the task on as they are 
scared of damaging the wallpaper. 
The repairs were completed and signed off in October 2019. However, in November 2019 Mr 
K contacted LV again as the engine management system light would not go out; he said he 
didnt know if this was caused by the accident or by the repairers running his motorhome on 
fumes (with minimal petrol in the tank). He also says that he has found a similar motorhome 
which has much clearer transfers on than those used on his repair. Mr K arranged a 
diagnostic check in November 2019 to determine the cause of the engine management light 
staying on which was £125. LV said that the fault had developed a few hundred miles after 
the vehicle had left its care. However, it agreed to cover the cost of the investigation and 
repair for this as a gesture of goodwill.
In December 2019 Mr K raised issues in relation to the fan and a bent bonnet prop and said 
that the issues remained in relation to the transfers and marks on wallpaper. A further 
inspection was carried out by independent examiners in January 2020 and a report was 
prepared. Further work was done to rectify the issues raised and the work was signed off in 
February 2020. As a result of the recommendations in the report LV also gave Mr K a cash 
settlement of £100 for the wall covering as it was no longer available and reimbursed the 
£125 for the investigation in relation to the engine management light.
Mr K said that there are still issues with the condition of the motorhome which LV hasnt put 
right. He also says that he has missed several booked holidays due to not having use of the 
motorhome for a lengthy period of time. For other trips, he and his wife had to stay in hotels 
for less time due to the cost. Mr K says he has had to pay to tax, insure and MOT the 
motorhome despite not being able to use it for 15 months and storage fees as the repairer 
left their car in the secure parking at his caravan park. He says that he has also had to 
purchase several things that he had expected to be covered by the insurance including a 
new battery so the motorhome could be moved, travel to the repairers facility (140-mile 
round trip), taxi and hotel bills in order to collect the vehicle and for tyres to be changed. Mr 
K also says his wife was still traumatised by the accident due to the wait to be extracted from 
the motorhome and concern that the vehicle would catch fire. He says that her anxiety about 
using it has grown due to not being able to use the motorhome for such a long time.
LV accepted that there have been issues during the repair process and that this has fallen 
well below the standards it would expect. It has offered Mr K £2,500 as compensation for the 
distress, inconvenience, loss of use and other issues. It says that the remaining issues 
raised by Mr K in relation to the transfers, vibration through the steering wheel and hand rail 
are not considered as incident related by the independent engineer so it says it is not 
responsible for these. 
Mr K rejected the offer from LV and maintains that LV have mishandled his claim for a 
number of reasons. He says that not all of the work has been completed as only half of the 
transfers had been completed, there was a problem with the brakes and the D-lock was 
jammed open. He would like £15,000 to compensate him for the issues with his claim. 
Our investigator looked at Mr Ks complaint and found that there was no dispute that there 
were several issues with the repairs carried out to his motorhome. However, she felt that the 
£2,500 offered by LV and reimbursement of certain repairs was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Although Mr K felt that his motorhome wasnt in the same condition as it was 
before the accident, the independent report said the new issues werent related to the 
accident.
Mr K disagreed with the investigators view so the case has come to me to make a decision. 
He is of the view that the motorhome has still not been restored to its condition prior to the 
accident and does not believe LV have treated him in a fair and reasonable way. He does 
not believe LV tried to resolve the work in an effective and timely manner and this has 
inconvenienced and penalised him. 
I set out in my provisional decision dated 9 December 2021 (reproduced below) why I was 
minded to uphold the complaint. I also set out what LV should do to put things right, 
including paying Mr K £2500 for the trouble and upset he had been caused and a further 
£730.42 for the financial loss he suffered. I invited both parties to let me have any further 
comments and evidence by 6 January 2022.
Neither LV nor Mr K have made any further submissions.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I set out the following:
Having carefully considered all the evidence and arguments, I largely agree with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons and Ive explained these further below. 
However, it is my provisional view that, in addition to the £2,500 for distress and 
inconvenience, LV is also responsible for some further financial costs incurred by Mr 
K as set out below.
Outstanding repair work
It was LVs responsibility to make the repairs to Mr Ks motorhome which were 
attributable to his accident and to rectify any problems with the initial repairs which 
were incomplete. 
Mr K says that the outstanding issues are that the transfers applied by the repairers 
are of a poor standard and should be replaced for clearer transfers; that the D-lock/ 
handrail is jammed open and problems with the brakes and vibration through the 
steering wheel. In relation to the suggestion that this is due to bad maintenance he 
says that the motorhome was with various repairers for 15 months and he only had 
access to it for 26 days over this time. 
I can see that LV has sought advice from an independent engineer in relation to the 
matters Mr K says are outstanding. The engineer has said that the transfers on the 
two front doors and rear panel are the originals and have faded due to wear and tear; 
they are therefore not related to the claim. The invoice from Mr Ks garage was 
reviewed and showed that the brakes required a general service and lubrication of 
the pad seating area. As the motorhome was frequently parked for long periods of 
time the engineer concluded that this was due to wear and tear, should be 
considered as part of the normal service schedule and was not related to the claim. 
Regarding the vibration through the steering wheel, the engineer concluded that, as 
there was no evidence of any damage to any of the suspension or steering 
components, there was no evidence that this was claim related. In relation to the 
door entry handle (D-lock), the examiner determined that there was evidence of 
corrosion to the handle base and the locking pin was found to be seized. The 
examiner said enquiries were made of Mr K who advised that he did not carry out 
regular maintenance or lubrication of the exterior fittings and had never applied 
lubrication products to the handle. 
LV maintains that the outstanding issues are not related to the accident or a 
consequence of any workmanship by its repairers. As they are not related to the 
claim it says there is no obligation on it to remedy these issues.
I have considered the information provided by the independent engineer. There is no 
other evidence to support the fact that the outstanding issues are attributable to the 
accident. Nothing I have seen persuades me that the findings of the independent 
engineer are incorrect or that it was unreasonable for LV to rely on its engineers 
report. In light of this, its my view that it was reasonable for LV to rely on what the 
engineer had said when deciding how to deal with the claim and whether to pay for 
the further work. 
In the circumstances of this case I dont think it was unreasonable for LV to conclude 
that the issues remaining at this stage were not related to either the accident or the previous repairs. As LV was not liable to repair damage caused by wear and tear, I 
think it was reasonable for it not to pay for the further repairs at this stage. And I cant 
say LV has acted unfairly and unreasonably in coming to the decision it has. 
Therefore, I am satisfied that all repair work for which LV are liable following Mr Ks 
accident has now been completed. 
Delays and mishandling of claim
I can see that there were numerous delays with this process and that Mr Ks 
motorhome had to be returned to repairers on a number of occasions to rectify issues 
which had not been fixed properly. Mr K says that the fact his motorhome had to go 
back to the repairers seven times which vastly increased the time he was without the 
use of the vehicle.
I can understand that the fact that Mr K has missed out on the use of his motorhome 
is frustrating. Likewise, he has had to pay for various running costs (such as tax and 
MOT) whilst he has not had use of the vehicle. Whilst some inconvenience and loss 
of use would be expected following an accident, clearly this has been significantly 
lengthened by the repeated delays in repairing Mr Ks motorhome. 
However, LV has offered Mr K £2,500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
these delays, to take into account the loss of use and some of the other costs he has 
incurred and I think this is reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr K has rejected this offer and referred to a number of costs he has incurred. 
However, I cant fairly say that LV are responsible for all of the issues raised. I am 
sorry to hear that Mr Ks wife has been traumatised by her experience in the 
aftermath of the accident, which is understandable.  Whilst her anxiety about 
travelling in the motorhome may have been exacerbated by the delay in Mr K being 
able to use the vehicle, the experience she suffered as a result of having to be 
removed from the vehicle cannot be said to be the fault of LV. Likewise, if Mr K has 
chosen to make arrangements to stay in accommodation whilst he has not had use 
of the motorhome, I dont think that LV should be liable for all of those costs as that 
was his choice. I also have to bear in mind that there would still be associated costs 
had Mr K been able to use his motorhome.
In conclusion, It is my view that LVs offer of £2,500 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So it is my provisional 
view that I won't be asking it to offer anything more in respect of a payment for 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr K.
Other issues
As set out above, it is my view that the payment offered by LV to Mr K in respect of 
distress and inconvenience suffered is fair. As set out in LVs final response to Mr K, 
this compensation was for the distress and inconvenience caused by the issues 
faced during the repair process and the fact that the standards fell well below what 
Mr K should expect. Although LV now says that its payment for distress and 
inconvenience was intended to include the losses Mr K had itemised on his 
spreadsheet, Im not persuaded that it is reasonable for LV to take this approach. 
Payments for distress and inconvenience must be distinguished from payments for 
specific financial loss suffered which should have been covered by the terms of Mr 
Ks policy of insurance and formed part of his claim. In this case it is my view that 
there are three areas where Mr K has suffered financial loss for things which should 
have been covered under his policy with LV and therefore should be considered separately to the payment for distress and inconvenience. 
Firstly, Mr K has complained about LV not covering him for getting home after the 
accident. He says that he was over 100 miles from home and that he and his wife 
had come out of the hospital in the middle of the night. The cost for accommodation 
and travel home was £200 and he has provided a breakdown for this figure. I can see 
from the claim notes provided by LV that Mr K was told LV would get them home but 
then subsequently advised this is not the case. LV later said it would reimburse a 
taxi fare of £25 as a gesture of goodwill as they were told LV would get them home.
I have looked at Mr Ks policy schedule, which includes the endorsement (at 
paragraph 369) that he would be entitled to accommodation and travelling expenses 
to the value of up to £300 if he was unable to continue his journey due to an 
accident. In previous correspondence with this service prior to the issuing of this 
provisional decision, LV agreed that it would be willing to cover Mr Ks expenses 
following the accident under the policy. It is my view that the expenses of £200 (less 
the £25 already paid to Mr K in respect of this aspect) should be paid under this 
section of the policy. It is therefore my view that LV should pay Mr K a further £175 in 
respect of this aspect under the terms of the policy.
Secondly, Mr K complained to LV about the repairer expecting him to travel to their 
repair facility to see the motorhome when it arrived. He also had to travel back to sign 
off the repairs and pay the excess but the motorhome was not there when he arrived. 
In relation to the cost of travelling to the repairers, Mr K did two round trips of 110 
miles in his own car, which he calculates to have cost £28.42 in petrol. 
I have considered Mr Ks policy which sets out (at page 37) that the cover includes 
paying for the vehicle to be brought back to the address on the schedule. So I dont 
think Mr K should have been expected to attend the repairers premises to see the 
vehicle and to bear the cost of this. It is therefore my view that LV should pay Mr K 
£28.42 in respect of this aspect under the terms of the policy.
Thirdly, Mr K also had to pay a storage charge for the repairers vehicle which was 
left in secure parking at the caravan park whilst the repairer was working on the 
motorhome until they brought it back months later. In relation to the storage charge, 
Mr K has provided a copy of the invoice showing that the annual charge was £575 
payable in advance. The repairers vehicle was in the space for 11 of the 12 months 
so he has asked to be reimbursed the cost of £527.
I have looked at Mr Ks policy, which (at page 36) includes sending the vehicle to an 
approved repairer. Therefore, it is not clear why the repairer left their own vehicle in 
storage at the caravan park in place of the motorhome when it took the motorhome 
for repair. It is my view that Mr K should not be responsible for the cost of this. LV 
has previously questioned in its correspondence with this service why the invoice 
was sent to Mr K rather than the repairer. As set out above, the fee for the space was 
paid in advance by Mr K. Given that the repairer left its vehicle in the space, Mr K 
would have been unable to claim a refund as the space was therefore not left empty 
when the motorhome was removed. It is therefore my view that LV should pay Mr K 
£527 in respect of this aspect.
I also set out what LV should do to put things right in the same terms as below.
As neither party has responded with any further submissions, I see no reason to change my 
view on the outcome reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things rightFor the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
require LV to:
Pay Mr K £2,500 for the trouble and upset hes been caused.
Pay Mr K a further £730.42 in respect of the financial loss he has suffered in respect 
of the three areas outlined above under the other issues section.
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision and above I uphold this complaint and 
require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman