DRN-2630382
The complaint
Mr A complains about the time taken to transfer his pension and says Deep Blue Financial 
Limited should have told him how to prevent the value of his pension fund falling in the 
period leading up to the switch.
What happened
Mr A contacted Deep Blue Financial in December 2019. He wanted to transfer his 
occupational defined contribution pension to a personal pension, so that he could take some 
funds as tax-free cash and then have flexible access to his pension benefits. 
Mr A had a meeting with an adviser at Deep Blue Financial on 7 January 2020. After the 
meeting, the adviser sent a signed letter of authority to the pension provider for information 
purposes only, to obtain information needed for the process. 
There was some delay before the adviser received the information they needed. They 
chased the provider a couple of times towards the end of January. Mr A also emailed both 
Deep Blue Financial and the provider asking for an update. 
Deep Blue Financial called the provider on 20 February 2020. They had received some of 
the information requested but needed some more. The further information was received on 
25 February. The adviser prepared a report dated 26 February advising Mr A to transfer to a 
personal pension, so he could have more flexibility to access his pension and take some tax-
free cash (which he wanted to use this to help fund a new business he was setting up). At 
the time, his attitude to risk was assessed as being balanced.
Mr A then met the adviser to finalise the transfer. He signed the relevant documents on 2 
March 2020 and Deep Blue Financial sent the paperwork to the new pension provider the 
following day.
Mr A kept in contact with Deep Blue Financial over the following days about the time the 
transfer was taking. On 10 March he sent an email commenting that he could see his 
pension value falling daily. The adviser replied explaining that they would be actively 
managing the pension after the transfer and that switching to another provider wouldnt get 
things moved any quicker.
The existing pension provider disinvested the funds on 18 March 2020 for the pension to be 
transferred.
Mr A lodged a complaint with Deep Blue Financial. In its final response letter, Deep Blue 
Financial said it couldnt have asked the existing provider to disinvest funds while waiting for 
a transfer to go through; it had explained this to him at the time; the adviser had given him 
appropriate advice; and although the pension funds had dropper in value that was due to the 
market conditions at the time and within his attitude to risk, and wasnt something Deep Blue 
Financial was responsible for. 
When Mr A brought his complaint to this service, our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. He said the adviser hadnt caused any avoidable delays, and he didnt think the 
adviser should have told Mr A to do anything differently with his pension investments before 
these were transferred to the new provider.
Mr A disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. He says Deep Blue Financial 
had a contractual obligation that a qualified financial adviser  will provide advice and 
recommendations relating to a matter not fully understood by the paying public yet they did 
nothing when he raised concerns about how quickly the value of his pension was falling. He 
says if Deep Blue Financial had acted properly, he would have been advised to get his 
existing pension provider to disinvest the funds and move them to cash - and if that had 
happened, the value of his fund wouldnt have continued to fall during the period up to 18 
March 2020. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under its terms of business Deep Blue Financial committed to take time to understand 
Mr As needs before providing any advice, and to confirm any advice in writing. Ive taken 
this into account when considering the complaint. 
Things did take longer to complete than was initially anticipated. But from the information Ive 
seen, the adviser didnt cause any unavoidable delays. He was initially waiting for the 
pension provider to provide all the information he needed to finalise their report, something 
he was required to do. And he chased the provider for that information. I dont think there 
was any more he could have done about this.
Once he had all the information, the adviser went through everything with Mr A and sent the 
transfer forms to the new pension provider. This all happened within a reasonable time. It 
was then a matter for the respective pension providers to complete the transfer. I dont think 
there was any failing in relation to this. 
But Mr A says the adviser had a responsibility to recommend that he did something different 
with his pension whilst he was waiting for it to be transferred. 
At the time in question, the financial markets were particularly volatile. Mr A could see the 
value of his pension going down each day. I appreciate this would have been very worrying.
But Deep Blue Financial wasnt responsible for the investments within the existing pension  
its role was to advise Mr A on the transfer. And it had no authority to make changes to the 
existing funds. 
I can see why Mr A might have expected Deep Blue Financial  as his adviser  to provide 
some guidance when he raised his concerns about the fall in value. But I dont think that 
means the adviser should have told Mr A to make changes to his pension investments. 
When he raised concerns about the drop in value of his pension, the transfer was in 
progress and only a week away from the funds being disinvested. There wasnt much time 
for the adviser to review everything and be confident that taking a different course of action 
was appropriate. I appreciate that soon after that, the adviser did say disinvesting the 
pension funds might have meant his pension value wouldnt have fallen as much. But that 
was said with the benefit of hindsight and would have been difficult to predict at the time.
The adviser also pointed out that the planning they were doing for the pension funds meant 
that over the long term the pension should recover as the financial markets did. After taking 
the tax-free sum, most of the pension was going to be reinvested in a balanced portfolio and so would have continued to move with the financial markets. He also reviewed with Mr A his 
attitude to risk and amended the balance of investments in line with this. In the 
circumstances, I think that was reasonable. 
I dont think it would be reasonable to expect Deep Blue Financial to have advised Mr A 
about the investments in the existing pension, when it had no control over the funds and 
wasnt advising him about those investments. The transfer was about to go through and, as 
Ive said, they reviewed how best to manage the funds once that happened. At the time of 
the transfer, stock markets everywhere were suffering large falls due to the impact of the 
pandemic. None of that was within the control of Deep Blue Financial, which was not 
responsible for the performance of his pension funds.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman