DRN-2056519
The complaint
 Mrs K complains that a car acquired with finance from Motonovo Finance Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. 
What happened
 In July 2019 Mrs K was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
Motonovo. At the point of supply the car was around 2 years old with recorded mileage of 
around 9,900. 
Mrs K experienced an issue with the drivers seat not adjusting up or down. The supplying 
dealer repaired this by replacing the seat in August 2019.
Mrs K also experienced issues with the gear box juddering and knocking. She says she told 
the supplying dealer about this in August and arranged for the car to be inspected in 
September, although she says this appointment was postponed to October due to the 
unavailability of an automatic courtesy car. 
In December 2019 the car was booked in to the supplying dealer and a valve solenoid in the 
gearbox was replaced.
Mrs K continued to experience issues including knocking, over revving and excessive fuel 
consumption. She raised a complaint with Motonovo and said she wanted the car repaired 
free of charge.
Motonovo arranged an independent inspection of the car. The engineer noted a judder 
coming from the gearbox which he thought was a transmission fault.  He said the fault 
wouldnt have been present or developing at the point of supply, given the time and mileage 
elapsed. The engineer was unable to find any faults relating to fuel consumption and said 
the over revving was just the way the car hesitated between gear changes.
Based on the findings of the independent inspection, Motonovo said it want upholding Mrs 
Ks complaint. It said the fault with the gearbox wasnt present at the point of supply and that 
there was no evidence of an unsuccessful repair.
Mrs K wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. She wants to reject 
the car.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought the evidence showed that there was a 
fault with the transmission which was too serious a fault to have occurred in a short period of 
time after the point of supply to be considered reasonable. He concluded that the 
transmission wasnt durable, which meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, and said Mrs 
K should be allowed to reject the car.
Motonovo didnt agree. It said there was no evidence that there was a fault at the point of 
supply and said the independent inspection supported this. It said that because Mrs K had 
covered around 10,000 miles in the 7 months between the point of supply and the inspection 
date, of which 3000 had been completed since the repair to the valve solenoid, it wasnt 
likely that there was a durability issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Because Motonovo has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an 
implied term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as, amongst other things, the age and mileage of the car and the price 
paid. I would expect a second-hand car  such as that supplied to Mrs K  to have a degree 
of wear and tear and to require repairs more often than a brand-new car. So, in order to 
uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that the car had an inherent fault as 
opposed to a fault caused by general wear and tear. 
Under the CRA 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a presumption that 
the fault was present or developing at the point of supply unless the business can show 
otherwise. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. If the repair isnt 
successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months, its up to the consumer to show 
that there was a point of supply fault.
Mrs K and Motonovo disagree about whether the car had a point of supply fault. In order to 
reach a decision, I need to look at all the available evidence and take into account the wider 
circumstances of the case to determine whether the car was of satisfactory quality when 
supplied.
Theres no dispute that the car has a transmission fault. This is clearly identified in the 
independent inspection report. The issue in this case is whether the transmission fault was 
present or developing at the point of supply. I also need to consider whether the repair to the 
solenoid valve in the gearbox was successful.
Mrs K says she experienced the juddering and knocking within a very short time of getting 
the car and that she reported this to the supplying dealer. She says the supplying dealer was 
meant to inspect the car in September 2019 but that this was postponed to the following 
month due to the unavailability of a suitable courtesy car. Mrs K says that repairs were 
carried out to the gearbox in December 2019.
Motonovo says theres no evidence to show that Mrs K complained about the gearbox in the 
first few weeks of acquitting the car. It says the issue wasnt reported to them until February 
2020, more than 6 months after the point of supply.
Although I have no reason to doubt what Mrs K has said, there isnt any evidence to show 
that the supplying dealer was asked to inspect the gearbox in September 2019. And even if 
the car was inspected in October 2019, there arent any documents to show what was 
inspected and what the outcome was. There arent any notes from the supplying dealer to 
show that Mrs K was complaining about the gearbox. That said, I can see that the car was 
repaired by the supplying dealer in December 2019 and that the valve solenoid in the 
gearbox was replaced. This suggest to me that Mrs K had raised concerns about the 
gearbox, in response to which the supplying dealer booked the car in for repair. On the 
balance of probability, I think its likely that Mrs K reported an issue with the gearbox prior to 
December 2019.
Motonovo relies on the independent inspection report to support a conclusion that the car 
was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Ive looked at the report. This identifies a transmission fault but says that due to the time and mileage covered, it wasnt present at the 
point of supply. The engineer said the fault required further investigation, which I cant see 
happened. He suggested that the cause might be a worn transmission mounting.
At first blush, the report seems conclusive that the fault wasnt present at the point of supply. 
However, in later comments, the engineer said that his opinion might alter if there was 
evidence that Mrs K had noticed the gearbox knocking and juddering shortly after the point 
of supply. 
As Ive said above, Im satisfied that Mrs K did report knocking and juddering in the gearbox 
at some point between the point of supply and December 2019, which is within the first 6 
months. So, I think its probable that the engineer would change his opinion about the 
presence of the transmission fault at the point of supply.
Ive also taken into account that repairs were carried out to the gearbox in December 2019. 
The engineer doesnt really comment on these repairs, which is unusual, given that they 
focussed on the same area that he was being asked to inspect for a fault. I wouldve 
expected the engineer to say whether the repairs were related to the transmission fault. 
Whilst I cant say that the repairs werent successful, by the same rationale, I dont think that 
Motonovo can say that the repairs were successful. The engineer simply doesnt address 
this in enough detail.
Even if Im wrong about Mrs K reporting issues with the gearbox soon after the point of 
supply, I dont think there can be any doubt that she reported issues with the gearbox prior to 
December 2019. If this wasnt the case, then theres no explanation as to why the supplying 
dealer carried out repairs to the gearbox in December 2019. The repairs wouldnt have been 
carried out for no reasons. Under the CRA, the fault was reported to the supplying dealer in 
the first 6 months. I havent seen any evidence which persuades me that the presumption 
that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply has been rebutted here. Im 
not persuaded by the engineers report for the reasons Ive explained. He states that his 
opinion would change if there was evidence that Mrs K experienced knocking and juddering 
at the point of supply. Im persuaded that she did experience these issues soon after the 
point of supply.
On the issue of durability, Ive taken account of what Motonovo has said. But I dont think a 
reasonable person would expect to experience a fault with the transmission on a car of this 
age and mileage within a relatively short time of the point of supply. So, I agree with the 
investigator here. I dont think the transmission was durable.
Taking all of the available evidence into account, as well as the wider circumstances of the 
case, Im persuaded that there was a transmission fault which was present or developing at 
the point of supply. I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality. Theres already been one 
attempt at repair, so I dont think its fair to expect Mrs K to agree to further repairs. She 
should be allowed to reject the car.
Putting things right
 Its clear that Mrs K has experienced many months of distress and inconvenience due to the 
issues with the gearbox. I can see that she was provided with a courtesy car whilst the car 
was inspected, but for the remainder of the time shes had to drive the car in an 
unsatisfactory condition because shes a key worker and needs the car to get to work. Mrs K 
has advised that the knocking and juddering has got worse and that on one occasion she 
experienced a whiplash type injury caused by extreme jolting when she changed gear. Im of 
the view that Mrs K should be compensated for distress and inconvenience.  My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Motonovo Finance Limited must:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mrs K
Remove the agreement from Mrs Ks credit file
Refund any deposit paid by Mrs K
Refund 25% of all payments made by Mrs K since December 2019
Pay simple interest of 8% on both of the sums above from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement (deposit and payments)
Pay compensation of £100
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman