DRN-3481266
The complaint
P complains about Revolut Ltds decision to review and subsequently close its account. 
Mr L, director of P is also unhappy that Revolut Ltd decided to return the money in Ps 
account to the original senders.
What happened
P held a Revolut account. In September 2019, Ps account was flagged for review. During 
the review, Ps account was fully limited and the funds which were held in it were returned to 
the original senders.
In February 2020, Revolut finalised their review and decided to close Ps account. The 
account was offboarded in its entirety around November 2020.
Mr L, on behalf of P, complained. He wanted to know why Revolut had made the decision 
they did  but most importantly, he wanted access to the money which was left in Ps 
account. Revolut responded to Ps complaint and confirmed that they were entitled to end 
the relationship with P and had returned the money. Revolut also said they couldnt disclose 
any details regarding the review or why they made the decision they did.
P brought the complaint to our service. While Ps complaint was waiting to be investigated, 
Revolut offered P a payment of £20 as a gesture of goodwill to resolve the complaint. P 
rejected this offer.
Our investigator reviewed things and thought Revolut were entitled to take the actions they 
did  including closing the account and returning the money left in it back to source. She 
didnt ask Revolut to do anything differently. Mr L, on behalf of P, remained unhappy. He 
wanted to know why Revolut did what they did  and above all, wanted his money back.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to make Mr L aware that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. 
We may treat evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if 
it contains security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the 
information Revolut has provided is information that we considered should be kept 
confidential.
Revolut are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. Having looked at whats happened, 
Im satisfied Revolut was complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they 
reviewed Ps account. So, I cant fairly say theyve done anything wrong. 
I appreciate Revolut didnt tell P about the review  but they dont have to. As part of their 
review, Revolut made the decision to return the money in Ps account to the original sources. 
I havent seen any evidence to show that Revolut asked P or Mr L for detailed information 
about the money in the account or where it came from; but based on the information Revolut 
has shared with our service, I dont think it would have made a difference overall. I say that 
because Revolut have acted reasonably in the full circumstances of this complaint by 
returning the money to source. If Mr L felt P was entitled to the money  he could have 
pursued the original senders directly. I do appreciate returning the money to the original 
senders would have left P in a difficult position  it didnt have access to its money when it 
feels it should have. But based on the circumstances, I cant fairly conclude Revolut acted 
inappropriately. I appreciate one of the original sources has now ceased trading and 
therefore P has been left without the money altogether  but I cant hold Revolut responsible 
for another companys liquidation so I cant uphold the complaint on this point.
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons, and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same 
as if P decided to stop banking with Revolut, it wouldnt have to explain why. Revolut can 
only close accounts in certain circumstances and if it is in the terms and conditions of the 
account. This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial discretion unless we 
think theyve acted unfairly. Revolut have relied on, and complied with, the terms and 
conditions when closing Ps account and Ive seen nothing to suggest that theyve made an 
unfair decision. So, I cant fairly ask them to do anything differently. 
Overall, Revolut were entitled to review, block and subsequently close Ps account - and did 
so while complying with the terms and conditions. Im sorry P is left in the position it is  and 
Im sorry I cant share more details with Mr L on the reasons why. But in order to uphold this 
complaint and ask Revolut to do something to put things right, Id need to be satisfied they 
did something wrong. And having considered everything, I cant reasonably say they did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman