DRN-3105094
The complaint
Mr K has complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC was irresponsible in lending to him.
What happened
In April 2016 AvantCredit provided Mr K with a loan of £5,000. The loan was repayable over 
36 months and the monthly repayments were £211.60. The APR was 34.5%. 
Mr K said the purpose of the loan was to consolidate his debts.
Mr K complained that AvantCredit hadnt properly checked he could afford the loan. Our 
adjudicator upheld Mr Ks complaint. She thought AvantCredit was wrong to have offered the 
loans to Mr K. 
As AvantCredit didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr K 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr K would have been able to do so?
Did AvantCredit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ks ability to make the repayments under the loan 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr K undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr K. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
Mr K was entering into a significant financial commitment with AvantCredit. He would need 
to pay almost 15% of his income on loan repayments for the next three years. Before 
granting this loan, AvantCredit asked Mr K about his income and expenses. Mr K told it that 
his net monthly income was £1,450. It verified that figure using a standard industry tool. Mr K 
also said his expenses were £500 a month. Its not clear to me how this figure was reached 
as I note from the credit search that he had a joint mortgage on which the total monthly 
repayment was £431 a month.
AvantCredit carried out a credit search. That showed Mr K had eleven credit accounts on 
which he owed a total of £5,800. Hed opened one new account in the last three months. In 
2014 hed defaulted on two credit card accounts and in 2014/15 hed failed to keep up 
repayments on two other loan accounts suggesting hed had some financial difficulties. So, 
Id have expected AvantCredit to gather some more detailed information about Mr Ks 
finances before it agreed to lend to him.
Although I dont think the checks AvantCredit did before agreeing the loan were sufficient, 
that isnt a good enough reason for me to uphold Mr Ks complaint. In order for Mr Ks 
complaint to succeed, I need to be able to say that proportionate checks would have shown 
AvantCredit that there was a real risk Mr K wouldnt be able to afford the repayments 
sustainably.
Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would have shown. 
Mr K has sent us some bank statements including those for the month before he took out the 
loan. It appears he had another bank account and transfers into and out of this account are 
shown on the bank statement Ive seen. I havent seen the bank statement for the other 
account. It looks like most of Mr Ks everyday household expenditure would have been paid 
out of that other account.The bank statement Ive looked at shows that in March 2016 Mr K spent £565.81 being over 
a third of his income on various credit commitments (excluding his mortgage). Overall he 
spent more than he earned even without taking into account household utility bills. I think if 
AvantCredit had carried out proportionate checks it would have realised that due to his 
spending habits Mr K had become over-reliant on credit he couldnt afford and he was 
unlikely to be able to sustainably afford the new loan repayment over a three year period. I 
dont think AvantCredit treated Mr K fairly in approving this loan.
I appreciate that the purpose of the loan was said to be debt consolidation. Mr K could have 
used the £5,000 loan to repay some of his short-term loans which in turn could have 
reduced his credit commitments going forward. However, AvantCredit didnt pay off any of 
these loans directly. So it couldnt be sure it wasnt putting him in a worse position by 
increasing his overall indebtedness. The stated purpose of debt consolidation isnt enough 
in itself to make me think that the loan was fairly provided or that it proved helpful in the 
event to Mr K.
Ive also thought about whether AvantCredit acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr K to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because hes had the benefit of that lending. But as I have concluded AvantCredit shouldnt 
have provided the loan, it should look to remove the interest and fees from the amount due 
under the loan agreement. If AvantCredit has sold the outstanding debt, it should buy it back 
if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debt, it 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
AvantCredit should:
  remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan;
treat any payments made by Mr K as payments towards the capital amount of £5,000;
If Mr K has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to him 
with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement,
But if theres still an outstanding balance, AvantCredit should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr K; and
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Ks credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ks complaint and require AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman