DRN-2292992
The complaint
Mr B complains about initial advice he received from Hub Financial Solutions Limited (Hub) 
recommending against a transfer from his occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal 
pension plan (PPP). He questions why advice he subsequently received from Hub, 
recommending a transfer, couldnt have been given earlier. 
Mr B says delays by Hub caused him to miss the transfer deadline and incur an additional 
advice fee. He also complains about the accuracy of the information provided in the 
suitability report and says he received a poor service from Hub.
What happened
Mr B met with an adviser in March 2019 to discuss transferring his occupational pension 
scheme benefits to another pension plan. As well as his OPS, Mr B also held a Self- 
Invested Pension Plan (SIPP). 
Mr Bs scheme gave him a transfer value for his OPS which was valid until 7 May 2019. So 
that was the deadline for transfer. 
On 21 March 2019 Hub issued a suitability report and recommended that Mr B should keep 
his occupational pension scheme and advised against transferring to a new plan. 
Mr B contacted Hub on 5 April 2019 and asked to appeal against its recommendation. He 
met with another adviser later in April, and on 25 April 2019 a second suitability report was 
issued. The adviser recommended he transfer his OPS benefits to a personal pension plan 
and set up an annuity within that plan to provide a guaranteed income. 
After receiving the report Mr B emailed Hub and raised some concerns about taking out the 
annuity. The adviser then sent an amended recommendation on 1 May 2019 by email, 
recommending a transfer to the same plan but with only around half the annuity amount and 
the remainder invested.
Mr B decided against following that recommendation and informed Hub he wasnt going 
ahead on 7 May 2019. He said it was his intention to transfer out completely, the transfer 
was in the pipeline, and in due course he would need a relevant advice declaration form 
signed by Hub.
After the transfer value deadline had passed the value of his plan was recalculated by        
Mr B s scheme. As there had been a significant increase in value, the scheme said Mr B 
would need updated advice, before a transfer could be allowed. The new guaranteed 
transfer value expired on 16 August 2019.
Hub contacted Mr Bs pension scheme to confirm whether it would pay for the new advice, 
as it had paid for the earlier advice. It said it wasnt prepared to cover the cost of the new 
advice and Hub confirmed this to Mr B on 12 June 2019 
Mr B signed a fee agreement with Hub on 17 June 2019 for the new advice. 
Mr B met with an adviser from Hub on 18 June 2019. The adviser then prepared a suitability 
report which recommended that Mr B transfer his occupational pension scheme benefits to a 
personal pension plan.
On 23 June 2019 Mr B contacted Hub and confirmed he would be proceeding with a transfer 
on his own account. He then transferred the benefits of his OPS to his existing SIPP. 
Mr B complained to Hub about the service he had received. He said that Hub had caused 
him to miss the transfer deadline in May 2019 resulting in Mr B having to pay for the 
additional advice in June 2019. Mr B also said he had lost the investment return as a result 
of the delay in investing the transfer value into his SIPP. He complained that Hub had made 
errors in its comparison graphs and he questioned why it wasnt able to give the advice 
provided in June 2019, in March 2019.
Hub didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said its adviser had to be able to justify any transfer 
from an occupational pension scheme because of the valuable defined benefits it provided. 
Hub said it didnt accept that the advice in March 2019 was unsuitable. It said its advice 
changed because further information was received from Mr B about his circumstances and 
priorities and Mr B had made it clear that he was willing to take the risks associated with 
transferring his OPS.
Hub said because the transfer value had changed significantly Mr Bs scheme had required 
him to seek new advice, and the scheme hadnt been prepared to meet the cost of this. It 
said that Hub had made Mr B aware of the cost of the advice before the consultation and he 
had agreed to go ahead. 
Hub acknowledged that there may have been some lost investment yield but pointed out that 
the transfer value had increased significantly between the first meeting and the transfer date. 
So, it didnt accept there had been any loss as a result of the delayed transfer. 
Hub said that the starting income for the pension scheme on the future income chart was 
correct but acknowledged there wasnt any allowance for increases in payment under the 
scheme. It apologised for the error but said it didnt think it had any impact on the outcome, 
as it would have understated the benefits of the OPS. 
Hub also noted comments made about Mr B in his complaint about the assumed investment 
return of - 0.3% used for the new plan in the comparison. It said when a member was a 
very short distance from the assumed retirement age, as was the case for Mr B, it used a 
zero-growth assumption because predicting returns over a very short period was extremely 
problematic. Hub explained the 0.30 % figure came from the assumed charges for the new 
product. And with the zero-growth assumption this translated to -0.30% effective growth.
Mr B disagreed with Hub and referred his complaint to our service. He reiterated his view 
that Hub could have given the same advice it gave him in June, earlier in March. Mr B said 
that would have saved him paying the June advice fee. He also complained about the quality 
of the recommendation reports provided by Hub. He said there were errors in the charts 
used by Hub in those reports. Mr B also pointed out he was provided with an incorrect form 
in April. 
Mr B said he didnt receive the hard copy of the second updated recommendation until         
3 May and he felt he didnt have sufficient time to make his decision. Mr B said he didnt 
have time to properly consider and complete the medical questionnaire which was required 
for the annuity and needed to be completed correctly. Mr B also complained Hub provided him with an out of date fund fact sheet for the 
recommendation in June 2019.
Our investigator considered Mr Bs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
the starting point was that the adviser needed to show why it was right for Mr B to transfer 
from his OPS and give good reasons for transferring. The investigator said there needed to 
be a reasonable prospect that Mr B would be better off in retirement, as well as satisfying the 
other reasons that were given to consider the transfer. There would be no advantage in 
transferring if the benefits were likely to be similar - or worse - in value. 
The investigator considered Mr Bs objectives of providing a secure income for his wife and a 
lump sum of £100,000 for his daughter. She noted those objectives could be met by staying 
in the scheme and she also took into account that Mr B had a cautious attitude to risk. The 
investigator concluded there was no compelling reason to recommend a transfer.
The investigator noted that Mr B had appealed the recommendation decision and provided 
his own cash flow forecasts. She noted that Hub had then provided Mr B with a new 
recommendation to transfer to a retirement account and immediately buy an annuity. 
The investigator didnt think Hub was responsible for the transfer value expiring. She said 
that generally the transfer value was guaranteed for three months to allow sufficient time for 
the advice process to take place. She noted Hub met with Mr B on 5 March 2019 and the 
transfer value would have expired on 7 May 2019. This meant Hub had about nine weeks to 
collect information, understand Mr Bs circumstances and objectives and produce its 
recommendations.  The investigator noted that Hub had managed to produce two 
recommendation reports during that time.
The investigator thought Hub had set out what it would do for Mr B and how much it would 
charge him for that work. She noted it had also informed Mr B that he had the option to 
proceed with any other financial adviser. The investigator concluded that Mr B had agreed to 
pay the fee. 
The investigator looked at the third recommendation and concluded it wasnt unreasonable 
given the new information about Mr Bs objectives provided to Hub. She noted the 
requirement of a lump sum of £100,000 wasnt as immediate as previously thought and Mr B 
had indicated he could ask his son to repay the £105,000 lent to him. The investigator felt 
that made a substantial material difference to Mr Bs circumstances which accounted for the 
change in recommendation.
Overall, she thought Hub had fulfilled its duties in order to justify its fee.
The investigator noted that Mr B had paid £4,000 plus VAT in fees and had said that he lost 
around £2,500 in potential growth. However, she took into account that the new transfer 
value was £17,000 higher than the previous value. So, she concluded the delay resulted in 
Mr B being better off overall.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators conclusions. He said his objectives never changed 
and the suggestion that £100,000 was required immediately was wrong. Mr B said he had 
previously informed Hub about the loan to his son, in the meeting in March 2019.
Mr B said the investigator had accepted that the transfer was an acceptable option. So, he 
questioned why the recommendation made in June 2019 couldnt have been made in March 
2019. Mr B didnt accept that there had been any material changes in his circumstances 
from the first to the third recommendation. He said the adviser didnt ask relevant questions 
to elicit this information.Mr B said a lot of time was lost in the transfer window because Hub refused to consider his 
transfer out request. He pointed out that he had acted promptly in all his dealings with Hub. 
Mr B said he didnt agree with the 25 April recommendation which was clear from his 
correspondence to Hub from 23 April onwards. He said the recommendation was potentially 
misleading as it required him to immediately purchase an annuity. Whereas it had been 
described to him as a mixed annuity/drawdown option, with funds invested in a pension 
savings pot until a decision was made to move to one, or a combination, of those options. 
Mr B said Hub sent a further recommendation dated 1 May, but he said the hard copy wasnt 
received by him until 3 May. He also said the charts produced showed his forecasted actual 
income being around one-half of his desired and essential gross income. 
Mr B also pointed out that he had been given the wrong form to sign. 
Mr B said the quality of the recommendation reports was unsatisfactory and the 
accompanying documents were incomplete and incorrect. 
Mr B further disagreed with the investigator that there had been a monetary gain. But he said 
even if there had been, it was not correct that Hub should benefit from it, as it had caused 
him, by its actions, to pay for advice unnecessarily.
Mr B also said Hub should not be paid twice for the same job where the service, in his view, 
was poor. He said a financial advisor shouldnt dismiss a client's preferred outcome without 
giving a quantified reason and the adviser should not dismiss that preferred outcome when it 
was suitable for the client.
As no agreement could be reached Mr Bs complaint was referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B had an OPS which is a defined benefit scheme. This meant there were some 
guarantees around the level of income he would receive from his plan. 
Where the value of the OPS- which is a safeguarded benefit- such as Mr Bs, is more than 
£30,000, it is a legal requirement that the trustees of the scheme ensure that the member 
takes independent financial advice, before any transfer takes place. That means the adviser 
must sign an Appropriate Advice Declaration to confirm they gave this advice  it doesnt 
matter whether the advice was to transfer or not to transfer, as long as it has been given. 
As Mr Bs OPS was worth more than £30,000, he had to obtain advice before he could 
transfer it. So, he contacted Hub to discuss transferring his OPS and it initially advised him 
against doing so, in March 2019. 
Mr B says that, as Hub recommended that he transfer his OPS to a retirement account in 
June 2019, there was no reason why it couldnt have given that, same advice, in March 
2019, before the transfer deadline of 7 May 2019. Mr B says that if Hub had done so, he 
would have been able to transfer his OPS earlier and he wouldnt have had to pay for the 
second advice fee. But I dont think the key question is whether that particular recommendation made in June 
2019 couldve been given earlier. I think I have to consider whether the recommendation 
made in March 2019 was reasonable, taking into account Mr Bs circumstances and 
objectives at the time, as disclosed to the adviser.
So, I have carefully considered the information provided and what was discussed. 
March 2019 recommendation
I can see a fact find was completed which recorded Mr Bs circumstances. 
Mr B was in his sixties and retired. He was married and he, and his wife, were living off their 
savings and investments while they waited to receive their pensions. They owned their own 
home with no outstanding mortgage. Mr B had about six years until he received his state 
pension. He held a SIPP with around £550,000 invested and an occupational pension 
scheme with a transfer value of around £617,000. His wife had two defined benefit pensions 
which she could access in about a year and she was also waiting for her state pension, due 
in about seven years.
Their financial objectives were recorded as maintaining their lifestyle, putting aside £100,000 
for their daughter towards a first home and passing on their acquired wealth to their children 
on their death. 
Mr B completed an attitude to risk questionnaire that assessed his attitude to risk as six out 
of a possible ten, where zero was highly risk adverse. Mr B, noted at the time, that his real 
attitude to risk was more cautious than the results of the questionnaire indicated. He said he 
saw himself as moderately cautious which was recorded as three out of a possible seven. 
The adviser set out his recommendations in a suitability letter. It was recorded that Mr B 
wanted to achieve an annual income of £30,000 to £35,000 and he wanted to access a lump 
sum of £100,000 to help his daughter purchase a property. 
The adviser concluded there was no compelling justification for Mr B to transfer. The adviser 
said that, having a fixed guaranteed income from the scheme would allow Mr B to make 
small, or no withdrawals, from his SIPP so he could preserve funds to pass onto his family. 
He said that had a similar effect as transferring the scheme to that SIPP and making larger 
withdrawals. But he thought keeping the scheme would give Mr B greater stability.
The adviser also said that the immediate lump sum available from the scheme was in line 
with the amount Mr B needed to assist his daughter with a property purchase.
He concluded that Mr Bs overall pension portfolio was well-balanced, as he had roughly 
50% defined benefit and 50% defined contribution. He said this provided Mr B with a mixture 
of fixed and flexible benefits, which would be more than sufficient to meet his stated needs.
I note that Mr B has referred to incorrect information provided in the future income charts by 
the adviser. Hub has acknowledged that it didnt allow for future increases in the scheme 
income payments. It has also explained that the assumed investment yield for the new 
transfer plan of -0.30 percent was used because Mr B was close to retirement. So, it said it 
used a zero percent assumed growth and then it also accounted for the costs of the new 
plan.I note the error made by Hub would have understated the benefits of the payments under  
Mr Bs scheme. So, using the correct information, the benefit of transferring would have 
been further undermined - rather than changing the outcome. I appreciate the assumed 
investment yield seems pessimistic at -0.3 percent, but these types of plans are designed to 
be taken out in the medium to long-term. So, I agree that it wouldve been quite difficult to 
predict short-term growth, as Mr B was very close to retirement age, and in fact he had 
already retired. So, I dont think that was an unreasonable assumption to make.
But ultimately the consideration of whether to transfer is not just a simple comparison 
between the benefits under the scheme and the predicted future performance of the 
potential new plan/s. The scheme member is giving up something guaranteed in exchange 
for something uncertain. So, there has to be a good reason to do so and a clear benefit, to 
make it worthwhile to give up those guaranteed benefits. 
And to emphasize that point, it's worth noting that the regulator requires a business to 
assume that a transfer will be unsuitable unless it can be clearly demonstrated, with specific 
reasons, as to why its in the consumers best interests  and that the objectives couldnt be 
met by any other means.
I note that Mr B held over £500,000 in his SIPP and the value of his scheme benefits was 
more than £600,000. He and his wife owned their home and had repaid their mortgage.     
Mr Bs wife was shortly due to receive around £4,300 annual income from her defined 
pension benefits. They also had around £155,000 in savings and ISA investments. So, I 
think they had a number of assets which allowed them some flexibility within their finances. 
Having said that, Mr and Mrs B were already retired and were living on their savings, so     
Mr B would need to make sure he had a pension which would last throughout his retirement 
- he would have limited capacity to increase or replace his income in the future. I also take 
into account that he said his attitude to risk was more cautious than the assessment of 6/10. 
So given his age, circumstances and what he said about his attitude to risk Im not 
persuaded he wished to take more than a low level of risk with a large proportion of his 
pension pot. In addition, I note this risk wasnt being taken over the long-term as Mr B would 
be looking to take an income from his pension pot in the not too distant future.
So, overall, Im not persuaded the recommendation to remain in the scheme was unsuitable 
for him. As the adviser said, he had a good balance of defined benefit and defined 
contribution pension benefits which I think would give him some flexibility. In the event that 
the performance of his SIPP did take a down turn he would still have the guaranteed scheme 
benefits. In addition, he could still benefit from any investment gains his SIPP may make in 
the future.
After the recommendation was made, Mr B contacted the adviser by email raising a number 
of queries around the advice. I can see from the emails the adviser sent in response that the 
advisers concern was about Mr B having all his pension pot in one plan, where there were 
no guarantees in relation to the benefits and income he would receive. 
I consider that was an entirely reasonable concern to have in the circumstances. As I have 
said, it wasnt just a question of which plan was likely to yield more  it was also a question 
of risk and relinquishing valuable guarantees. And I also think this demonstrates the adviser 
considered the points raised by Mr B in response to his advice and gave a considered 
answer.
Second recommendation in April 2019Mr B did come back with further clarification of his position, reiterating the importance of 
death benefits so that his wife would continue to receive an income in the event of his death. 
He also produced a detailed cashflow forecast model after the first recommendation was 
made. And I think during the discussions with the adviser he gave some further confirmation 
and clarification of his ability to understand the risk he would be taking by transferring out of 
the plan. This was a relevant factor for the adviser to consider, especially given the previous 
assessment of his attitude to investment risk.
I also note the second recommendation given by Hub was to take a pension plan with a 
guaranteed annuity. So, I think Hub was trying to provide some certainty with regards to     
Mr Bs income. The plan recommended also provided a larger tax-free sum which addressed 
Mr Bs objective of providing his daughter with a lump sum. 
I appreciate that Mr B was unhappy with tying up a large part of the transfer value in an 
annuity and he was looking for more flexibility. But from the advisers perspective he was 
trying to ensure that Mr Bs pension portfolio had a balance between defined income benefits 
which had the certainty of payment, and the more flexible benefits that were already being 
provided by Mr Bs SIPP. 
Im less certain of the suitability of transferring from one source of guaranteed income to 
another, given that any annuity secured by the transferred sum would be unlikely to replicate 
the relinquished scheme pension. My view on this would be that this objective would be 
better met by retaining the benefits in the scheme. But this recommendation wasnt in any 
case accepted by Mr B. It seems that he still preferred the flexibility which would be offered 
by a transfer, without annuity purchase, hence the third recommendation.
Third recommendation in June 2019
After the second recommendation Mr B expressed in clear terms to Hub that he didnt want 
or need to take out an annuity at that time. He said he might consider a small annuity in the 
future, but he didnt want to commit to it at that time. 
Mr B made it clear he wanted more flexibility in respect of his pension pot. He said he would 
only require a small amount of additional income for a few years until he and his wife were 
able to receive their state pension. So, he was looking for an interim measure until then.    
Mr B also clarified, in the meeting with the adviser, that he had lent money to his son which 
should be treated as an asset. 
Hub has also said Mr B clarified that he didnt need to pay the lump sum to his daughter 
straight away and that he could call on his son to pay back the money lent to him.
Hub produced a suitability report recommending Mr B transfer his scheme benefits to a 
personal pension plan invested in the Scottish Widows Pension Portfolio B, which was made 
up of 50 percent global equities and 50 percent corporate bonds and gilts. 
I note it was recorded in that report, that because Mr B had been retired for several years, he 
knew their essential income was £14,000 per annum, and once he and his wife received 
their state pension their income would be at least £18,000, which was in excess of their 
needs. 
I can see the fact find completed before the March recommendation recorded higher 
outgoings of around £15,700 -so I think there was a change there. I note that Mr B has said 
that was because he wasnt given a proper explanation by the adviser as to what constituted 
essential expenditure, but I think it is important to get a realistic idea of expenditure including regular outgoings. And Mr B signed the fact find to confirm the information he had given was 
correct.
The suitability report also recorded that Mr and Mrs B had considerable assets to make up 
the shortfall before pension age and sufficient other assets to fall back on should they need 
to.
Mr B has questioned why the advice in June, to transfer out, wasnt given in March and he 
says there was nothing new in his circumstances or objectives. 
Mr B has also said he told Hub about the loan to his son in March 2019. But I can see from 
the note of that meeting that it records Son got £105k for deposit and daughter would like 
same which I consider is in accordance with the recording of that meeting. So, it doesnt 
seem on balance that it was referred to as a loan. I also note it wasnt recorded in the fact 
find which is where details of Mr and Mrs Bs financial circumstances would be recorded, 
and which was signed by Mr B. 
I think Mr B made it clear from his emails and discussions with the adviser after he declined 
the second recommendation, that he was willing to take the risk of transferring to a plan 
without defined benefits and he understood the risks associated with that. I think the fact    
Mr B was clearly and consistently expressing his understanding of the risk, and his capacity 
and willingness to take on the risk, is something the adviser can take into account when 
balancing the factors for and against transferring from the occupational pension scheme. 
Mr B clarified the amount of income that he required in the meeting in June. And this was in 
the context of Mr B himself having produced a cashflow model after the March 
recommendation. He also made it clear that flexibility and death benefits were very important 
priorities. 
Ive also thought about the fact Mr B had explained he didnt need to pay out a significant 
lump sum to his daughter of around £100,000 in the near future and that he could ask his 
son to repay the money loaned to him, which meant his finances were more secure and 
increased his capacity for loss.
Mr B has said, in effect, that the adviser should have sought all the relevant information from 
the outset. I agree that an adviser should ask questions which elicit as much relevant 
information as possible about the consumers circumstances and objectives. But I note the 
adviser is also somewhat dependent on what information they are given, and the way the 
consumers objectives are described to them. 
Overall, Im not persuaded on balance that Mr Bs understanding of the risk and his 
willingness to take that risk, was as clear at the start of the advice process as it was by June 
2019. I also think Mr B made it clearer that flexibility was very important to him, such that it 
clearly, in his view, subordinated the value of guaranteed income from the scheme. And I 
think there were some factual changes as I have outlined. So, overall, I consider this left the 
adviser in the position where it might have been reasonable to say that the advantages of 
transferring for Mr B warranted the recommendation.
Was there a delay which caused the transfer value to expire?
I think Mr B started this process with a clear idea of the option he would like to pursue, which 
was to transfer his scheme to his existing SIPP. I think that is evident from the email he sent 
to the business in March 2019, comparing the benefits of transferring out and remaining in 
his scheme. Hub didnt agree with this course of action and in March 2019 it recommended 
he remained in the scheme. Mr B was then left with the option of exploring this further with Hub or transferring the scheme of his own accord - providing he had the relevant 
documentation from Hub confirming it had provided advice, and his SIPP provider would 
accept the transfer. 
I can understand why Mr B wanted to explore the advice further with Hub but the potential 
ramification of this was a real risk the transfer value would expire, which is what did then 
happen. I dont consider that was Hubs fault as I dont think the advice it gave in March was 
unsuitable in the circumstances. And it was the exploration and challenge of that advice 
(which Mr B was of course entitled to do) which took further time and led to the transfer 
value expiring before a transfer could be made. 
I also note Mr B s point that he didnt want to make a rushed decision about his scheme 
benefits. And I agree that it was an important decision which needed proper consideration. 
But I think this also applied to Hub and it had to carefully consider the relevant issues before 
making its recommendation.
I also have to consider whether the recommendation in March 2019, not to transfer out of the 
scheme, prevented Mr B from taking the action he eventually took  which was to transfer 
the benefits from his scheme to his existing SIPP, rather than following the recommendation 
of Hub.
And Im not persuaded on balance that it did prevent him. The scheme required advice to be 
taken but there was no requirement that Mr B had to follow that recommendation. And I think 
that was made clear to Mr B in the meetings in March and April. The requirement was there 
to make sure he made an informed decision rather than to restrict his choice. Although I 
appreciate some providers may not have accepted the transfer without positive transfer 
advice. I note there was some discussion in the meeting between Mr B and the adviser 
about whether his SIPP provider would accept the transfer without positive transfer advice. 
So, it was open to Mr B to look into this further, if that was the option he wanted to pursue 
irrespective of the advice.
Mr B has said if Hub had given him the same advice in March 2019, as was given in June 
2019, then he wouldnt have needed to pay a second advice fee. But Ive explained above 
why the advice might reasonably have changed. And as Mr B didnt in any case follow Hubs 
recommendation in June, I think he could have taken the same course of action in March.
Did Mr B had to obtain the subsequent advice from Hub?
I consider it was open to Mr B to seek advice from a different firm if he felt that Hub werent 
properly addressing his circumstances and objectives. I also note Mr B has complained 
about the charts produced by Hub- in particular he has said the starting point used for 
income was incorrect and that all joint sources of income, such as state pension, should 
have been included. So, if Mr B was unhappy with the advice provided in March, April and 
May, then it was open to Mr B to seek advice from another firm. 
And I think Hub made it clear to Mr B that he could seek advice from an alternative source, 
in an email it sent to Mr B in June. So, I think it was a matter for Mr B to consider whether or 
not he wished to continue with Hub and pay its advice fee. I dont think he was misled about 
this. 
I appreciate that Mr B was aware that the transfer value was only valid for a specified time. 
But I dont think he was pressured or rushed by Hub into making the decision around taking 
further advice. Overall, I dont consider Mr B had to obtain the advice, required by the 
scheme as a result of the increased transfer value, from Hub.The scheme indicated that it wouldnt cover the cost of any further advice. Hub informed    
Mr B and it then set out in clear terms what the fee would be and what Mr B could expect in 
return. And Mr B agreed to this when he agreed to the consultation and signed the fee 
agreement.
Summary 
I am not persuaded in the circumstances that Hub should forgo its fee for the advice 
provided to Mr B in June 2019. 
I dont think the advice provided by Hub in March 2019 was unsuitable and I dont consider 
that Hub was responsible for the transfer value expiring in May 2019, before any transfer 
could be made. This was an important decision that had to be carefully considered and Hub 
produced two detailed recommendation reports before that date. The scheme then required 
Mr B to obtain further advice because of the increase in transfer value and Mr B chose to 
obtain that advice from Hub. 
I appreciate Mr Bs frustration at having to obtain further advice - which he ultimately didnt 
follow. But Hub carried out that work. It had a further consultation with Mr B and prepared a 
detailed suitability report. Its report set out the key features of the different options and the 
advantages and disadvantages of each option. 
I note there were some errors in the March report which have been acknowledged. I also 
note Mr Bs concerns about the information used by Hub to produce the income charts in 
later reports and in relation to the fund fact sheet- provided with the June recommendation -
which was a year old. But these were factors that could have been raised and discussed 
before a decision was made. And I dont think those factors impacted significantly on the 
outcome of the report. So, I consider on balance that Hub was entitled to its fee.
I also consider Mr B was ultimately better off by transferring at a later date because the 
transfer value he received from the scheme was about £17,000 greater. So, while I can 
appreciate his frustration over having to obtain further advice in June, which he had to pay 
for, if he had transferred earlier, he would have received a lower transfer value. I note Mr B 
has referred to some lost investment growth from not investing earlier, but even taking that 
and the advice fee into account, he received more overall.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against Hub Financial Solutions Limited 
for the reasons outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman