DRN-3780551
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited wouldnt tell him what the impact of making a 
claim would be on the premium for his motor insurance policy at renewal. He was also 
unhappy with its level of service in getting this information. 
What happened
Mr S contacted Aviva to see what effect making a claim for repairs would have on his 
renewal premium. He said he had difficulty getting an answer. Aviva said it wasnt able to 
provide a quote ahead of its issue date. Aviva apologised for the trouble Mr S had in getting 
this answer.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr S had asked for 
a quote four months ahead of his renewal date. He thought the risk modelling used by Aviva 
would make such a quote uncertain and could lead to an error as the variables could 
change. He thought Avivas service could have been better. But he thought an apology was 
sufficient redress for this. 
Mr S replied that he wanted to be able to make an informed decision about his claim and he 
thought Aviva should have been able to provide him with guidance on this. He thought the 
gap until renewal wasnt relevant. He thought he was left to guess what to do. And he 
thought Aviva should improve its systems and processes.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr S felt frustrated that he didnt get an answer to his question, and 
that he had great difficulty getting through to someone who could provide this information. 
Ive looked at Mr Ss contact experience with Aviva. And I can see that it could have been 
better, and Aviva accepts this. It said its agent should have told Mr S that it would be unable 
to provide an answer to his question rather than directing him back to its customer services 
team. Aviva apologised for this frustrating experience. And I think that was sufficient in the 
circumstances considering the impact it had. 
Mr S wanted Aviva to change its systems and processes. But this isnt something we can 
direct a business to do as it is for Aviva to make commercial decisions about how it runs its 
business, except where it breaches regulations. And I can see in Avivas response to Mr Ss 
complaint, that it said it would consider his feedback.
Mr S wanted to know what effect making a claim would have on his premium at renewal. He 
had a repair quote of £1,000 for a claim that didnt involve another driver. Aviva explained 
that a claim wouldnt affect Mr Ss protected No Claims Discount, but it would be recorded as 
a fault and this may affect his renewal premium. 
Aviva explained to Mr S that it was unable to provide a quote for how much this would be as 
it rerated renewal premiums three or four weeks before renewal. I can see that Mr S doesnt 
agree, but I think this is standard industry practice as the variables that Aviva takes into 
account in rating a risk can change. So I cant say that Aviva should have provided Mr S with 
a quote for his renewal including the claim four months ahead of his renewal date. 
But I can see that Aviva did explain to Mr S that if he went ahead and made a claim, then he 
could later buy the claim back if he chose to do so. I think this gave Mr S a reasonable 
option to consider. 
So I think Avivas level of service could have been better, but I think its apology for the 
trouble and upset this caused was sufficient. And Im satisfied that Aviva was unable to 
provide Mr S with the answer he wanted. So I cant say that it did anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman