DRN-3312711
The complaint
Ms L (through her representative, Mr S) has complained about Admiral Insurance Company
Limiteds valuation of her car when she was involved in an accident  and about other costs
she incurred as a result of storing the car.
What happened
In summer 2020, Ms L was involved in a road traffic accident. Her car  which was a rare 
classic model and a left hand drive - was damaged and not drivable. So she contacted 
Admiral to make a claim on her motor insurance policy.
Admiral had the damage assessed and concluded it was uneconomical to have it repaired. 
So they decided to settle Ms Ls claim on a total loss basis and pay her a cash sum. The 
policy provided that, in the event a cash sum was paid, the amount would be limited to the 
market value of the car.
Admirals assessor valued the car at £27,500. Ms L kept the car.  Admiral reduced that 
amount by the cars salvage value (£9,350) and the policy excess (£600) and sent Ms L 
£17,550.
Ms L wasnt happy with the value Admiral had placed on the car. Mr S sent Admiral evidence 
on her behalf, which they said showed the cars value to be in the region of £45,000. This 
didnt persuade Admiral to increase the settlement. So Ms L raised a complaint (through    
Mr S) about the valuation, and about the decision Admiral had made that she was liable for 
the accident.
Admiral considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. They explained they usually use trade 
guides to establish the market value of vehicles. But, because Ms Ls car was rare, theyd 
not been able to do that and had instead instructed an independent assessor. Hed valued 
the car at £27,500.
Ms L wasnt satisfied with Admirals response, so Mr S brought her complaint to us. As well 
as not agreeing the valuation, Mr S said Admiral had ignored Ms Ls complaint that theyd 
accepted liability for the claim without showing Ms L the evidence theyd relied on to decide 
that.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded Admirals decision about the cars 
valuation wasnt reasonable. He noted only about 350 of the cars were built  so finding 
examples of similar cars being sold was difficult. But he found the evidence provided by Mr S 
 which showed an average value of £58,463.55  to be more persuasive.
The investigator noted its usual to make a deduction of up to 20% for a left hand drive car, 
which resulted in a figure of £46,770.84. As Ms L retained the car, the investigator said it 
was fair to deduct the salvage value  meaning that Ms L should be paid £37,420.84, along 
with 8% interest on what shed not received. But he said Admirals decision on liability was 
fair.
In response to the investigators view, Mr S told the investigator that Ms L didnt want to keep 
the car  so she should also receive the salvage value. And he felt she shouldnt be 
responsible for the cost of storage, which shed previously agreed to pay. Finally, Mr S 
confirmed that Admiral had paid Ms L £100 compensation for not sharing the evidence on 
which theyd based their liability decision.
Admiral questioned the opinions on value provided by Mr S. And they said theyd offered to 
move the car out of storage, but this offer had been rejected and Ms L had said she would 
pay.
Our investigator reviewed his conclusions. In light of the information that Ms L didnt want to 
keep the car, he said Admiral shouldnt deduct salvage costs and should pay her 
£46,770.84. But he said Admiral could deduct storage costs from that amount, as he was 
satisfied it wasnt fair for them to pay them after theyd offered to move the car to a free 
storage facility.
Mr S accepted the investigators view on Ms Ls behalf and asked for clarification of the 
amount of storage costs to be deducted. Admiral decided to reassess the value and 
instructed another assessor. They assessed the cars value at £37,500, which they offered 
as a settlement (minus the excess and storage fees), which Mr S rejected.
The investigator reconsidered his view in light of the new information. He said Admirals 
increased offer was supported by a reasoned assessment of the cars pre-accident value 
and concluded it was fair. But it didnt take account of the fact that Ms L should have 
received this sooner. So he said Admiral should pay interest on the difference between 
£17,550 and £37,500.
After some differences between the parties on the handling of the storage costs, the 
investigator sent the parties his fourth view on the complaint. He concluded that Admiral 
should pay Ms L a further £10,000, plus interest at 8% from the date theyd paid her 
£17,550. And they should pay her the salvage value, from which he deducted storage costs 
which amounted to £7,546.71. In answer to a question from Mr S, he said no interest was 
payable on the net salvage value, because it represented the value of the vehicle in its 
damaged state, rather than a financial loss.
Mr S asked that for Ms Ls complaint to be referred to an ombudsman and it was passed to 
me.  Having reviewed all the available evidence, I reached a slightly different conclusion 
from our investigator about how the complaint should be resolved.  So I made a provisional 
decision.
I agreed with our investigator that Admirals second valuation of £37,500 for the car was 
reasonable.  And, because she no longer wished to keep the car, Admiral should pay Ms L 
the £9,350 theyd previously deducted.  And I agreed that Admiral could deduct storage 
costs of £1,803.29 from the settlement.
But, unlike the investigator, I said she should receive 8% interest on the salvage value, 
calculated from 12 May 2021 (the date shed told Admiral she didnt want to keep the car) 
until the date of settlement.
I thought about whether Admiral should make any payment to Ms L for trouble and upset.  
But, having considered what Ms L said about this, I provisionally decided the trouble and 
upset she told us about related to the accident  not Admirals handling of the claim.  So it 
wasnt fair for me to say Admiral should pay compensation as well.
Admiral accepted my provisional decision.  Mr S commented on Ms Ls behalf that she still 
felt the car was undervalued and suggested changes insurers should make to improve the 
customer experience.   He referred again to the evidence he provided on Ms Ls behalf as to 
the value of the car, which he submitted was more persuasive than the assessor relied on by Admiral.  And he challenged my provisional decision that Ms L should bear the costs of 
storing the car, as he said those costs had been caused by Admiral offering inadequate 
storage themselves.
The matters now been returned to me to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Ms Ls complaint for the reasons I first set out in my 
provisional decision and summarised above.  Ill explain why.
First, Id like to confirm that, while I can see Ms L and Mr S are concerned that their 
complaint relates to problems about how the motor insurance industry operates, thats not 
something I can make a decision about.  My role is to decide whether Admiral dealt with    
Ms Ls claim fairly and reasonably and  if they didnt  what they should do to put that right.  
It isnt to punish Admiral by including a penalty element in any award.
As I said in my provisional decision, I thought Admirals initial valuation of £27,500 was low.  
But their revised valuation of £37,500 was reasonable.  I came to that conclusion by 
weighing the information provided by Admirals assessor against that provided by Mr S and 
found the first more persuasive.
Its clear from Mr Ss comments on my provisional decision that he doesnt agree and that I 
should be persuaded by the information about value he provided from a specialist dealer.  
So Ive looked at that evidence again.
The document says the dealer has two vehicles for sale and gives the asking prices.  And it 
says the lowest price achieved for a similar car in the previous two years is £37,000.  
Ive thought carefully about this.  But Im not persuaded to change my provisional decision, in 
which I said that the comparisons were based on asking prices, rather than prices achieved.  
That remains my view.  The only reference to sale prices is a sale of £37,000  which is 
slightly lower than the revised offer Admiral made Ms L.  That persuades me Admirals offer 
is reasonable.
Ive also reviewed my provisional decision in light of Mr Ss comments about the quality of 
storage offered by Admiral.  Mr S has said that he and Ms L were advised that the car would 
be stored outside and that was not suitable for a vehicle that may later be repaired.  
Ive thought about this point.  But Im not minded to change what I said in my provisional 
decision.  Admiral decided its not economical to repair the car.  Because Ms L didnt agree 
with that, she wanted it stored while her complaint was considered.  That was her right.  
Admiral offered storage facilities, which Ms L rejected.  She said shed pay the cost of the 
storage she thought necessary herself.  While I note she and Mr S were acting on advice, 
that doesnt of itself persuade me the arrangements offered by Admiral were unreasonable. 
So its not reasonable for me to say Admiral should bear the costs of the storage 
arrangements Ms L chose to make.
Putting things right
As I said in my provisional decision, Im satisfied Admirals revised valuation of £37,500 is 
reasonable - and I think thats what they should pay Ms L.  So they need to pay her £10,000 - the difference between that and their original valuation of £27,500. And they need to pay 
interest on that amount, calculated at the rate of 8% per annum from the date they paid Ms L 
the original settlement (20 November 2020) until the date of settlement.
Admiral deducted the salvage value (£9,350) from the settlement because, at the time, Ms L 
wanted to keep the car. She changed her mind about this during the investigation. So I 
agree with our investigator she should also receive that sum.  And she should receive 
interest on that amount, calculated at the same rate, from the date she advised Admiral she 
didnt want to keep the car (12 May 2021) until the date of settlement.
Admiral have settled the storage costs for the car, even though Ms L had agreed to pay 
them. So I think its fair that they deduct £1,803.29 (the amount the investigator calculated 
Ms L was responsible for) from what Ive said above they should pay.
Neither Mr S nor Ms L commented on my provisional decision that she shouldnt receive any 
compensation for trouble and upset.  So Ive no reason to change my provisional decision 
that Admiral dont need to pay Ms L any compensation for this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ls complaint about Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited and directing Admiral pay her:
an additional £10,000 for the value of Ms Ls car, plus interest at the rate of 8% per 
annum, calculated from 20 November 2020 to the date of settlement;
the salvage value of £9,350, plus interest at the rate of 8% per annum, calculated 
from 12 May 2021 to the date of settlement
less the storage costs of £1,803.29.
If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Ms L how much its taken off. It should also give Ms L a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman