DRN-2412119
The complaint
Mr M complains that NewDay Ltd, trading as Marbles, irresponsibly increased his limit on his 
credit card, without checking that he could afford it. 
What happened
In 2017, Mr M applied for a Marbles credit card provided by NewDay. It offered him a credit 
limit of £600. Following a review of his account, NewDay wrote to Mr M to say that he was 
eligible for a credit limit increase to £1,500 in February 2018. It gave him the opportunity to 
opt out of the increase. As Mr M didnt contact NewDay, his limit was increased the following 
month.
 
Further reviews took place in June 2018, October 2018 and May 2019 and, at each time, 
Mr Ms credit limit was increased. In June 2019, it increased from £4,000 to £6,000.
 
In November 2019, Mr M complained. He felt his credit limit had been increased 
irresponsibly, from £600 to £6,000 over a two-year period. He felt this had caused him to 
have problem debt. He asked that the interest be stopped and refunded; and a percentage 
of the debt to be written off. He asked NewDay to accept payments of £50 a month until his 
financial position improved. 
In February 2020, NewDay agreed a reduced repayment plan with Mr M for £1 a month.
In March 2020, NewDay wrote to Mr M to say that it had found that it had offered Mr M a 
credit increase in May 2019 when it shouldnt have. It refunded fees and interest charged to 
Mr Ms account of £148.54 and £48.66. 
It also then responded to Mr Ms complaint. NewDay said it believed its decision to provide 
Mr M with the account and credit limit increases were offered correctly. It said he had met its 
acceptance criteria and was offered a credit limit of £600 which it felt was appropriate for his 
circumstances. NewDay said it reviewed Mr Ms account and he had been eligible for a 
credit limit increase, which he had the option not to accept. NewDay said that the 
management of Mr Ms account was in line with its terms and conditions and it takes into 
account a number of factors when reviewing a customers credit limit. 
Mr Ms credit card account defaulted in May 2020 and his outstanding debt was sold on to a 
third party.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He 
referred to the Consumer Credit Sourcebook which contains guidance on what a lender 
should have in mind when thinking about a consumers ability to afford credit. While the 
investigator was satisfied that proportionate checks were carried out for Mr Ms original 
application for the credit card, and for when NewDay increased his credit limit to £1,500, he 
felt that a review of Mr Ms statements showed that he then became reliant on the credit for 
everyday spending. Mr M incurred an over limit fee of £12 in June 2018 and his monthly 
repayments didnt significantly increase even though his spending had.
The investigator didnt think NewDay took reasonable steps to assess Mr Ms ability to meet 
his repayments in a sustainable manner. NewDay had confirmed that Mr M shouldnt have 
been offered a credit limit increase in June 2019 and had offered a partial refund of interest. 
But the investigator didnt think that the two earlier increases to £2,700 in August 2018, and 
to £4,000 in November 2018 were done responsibly. The investigator said NewDay should 
repay interest and charges from the date of the second increase in August 2018 and remove 
the adverse data recorded on Mr Ms credit file. 
NewDay didnt accept the investigators findings. It said that Mr Ms information showed no 
late payments with other creditors and no indications of financial difficulty. It said that the 
over limit fee he incurred may have been an issue of poor account management for that 
month. NewDay said that not only had it looked at how Mr M managed his card, it took 
external factors into account as well. It said Mr M hadnt used the full credit limit increase 
straight away, but instead he used it gradually.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M feels that NewDays actions in increasing his credit limit have caused him to have 
problem debt. Before increasing a customers credit limit, a business should undertake an 
assessment to consider how and whether such an increase may impact the customers 
financial situation. It should take into account:
- the information it already has about the customer at the time of the increase;
- the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due; and 
- information obtained from a credit reference agency  along with one of the 
following:
the customers income and financial commitments.
how they have handled their finances in the past.
internal credit scoring techniques.
The business should give 30 days notice of the increase and allow the customer the option 
to reject it in writing, online or by phone. Which I can see that NewDay did on each occasion 
it looked to increase Mr Ms credit limit. 
This was done in the following ways: 
Effective Date Credit Limit Amount of increase
26 October 2017 £600 -
06 April 2018 £1500 £900
07 August 2018 £2700 £1200
02 November 2018 £4000 £1300
05 June 2019 £6000 £2000
Ive reviewed Mr Ms application for the credit card, and the information NewDay has 
provided about the assessment it made of his circumstances at that time. And I think that the 
initial limit of £600 was reasonable for him. And Mr M has told us that he found it to be very 
manageable. NewDay has acknowledged that Mr M had historic defaults showing on his credit history, but 
it felt these were from long enough ago that he met its acceptance criteria. So I dont think 
NewDay was irresponsible in accepting Mr Ms application and offering him the £600 limit. 
NewDay has explained that it regularly reviews how its customers are managing their 
accounts. And it did this for Mr M after six months and increased his limit by £900 in April 
2018. Having considered the information provided about the checks NewDay undertook 
when offering this increase and considering Mr Ms management of his account at that time, 
this level of increase seems reasonable and sustainable for him. 
But I can see that in the following two-month period, Mr Ms credit card balance went up so 
that by June 2018 he had exceeded his limit and incurred a £12 fee for this. He then paid an 
amount the following month to reduce the balance back under the limit. NewDay has said 
that this wouldnt exclude a customer from being eligible for a credit limit increase. And 
I appreciate NewDays point that a one-off incident such as this, followed by a larger 
payment to bring the balance back under the limit, may not necessarily give cause for 
concern that Mr M was experiencing difficulties managing his finances. 
But I also think these circumstances should alert a prudent and responsible lender to ensure 
proportionate checks and questions are asked to establish whether a future credit limit would 
be affordable. However, NewDay then offered Mr M a further increase just a few days after 
the £12 charge had been applied to his account.
This increase was by a further £1,200, and this came into effect less than two months after 
the time he exceeded his limit. I think this was a significant uplift  almost doubling Mr Ms 
credit limit. I can see that he maintained a balance below his limit over the following few 
months, and that he was using his credit card less often during the following two months.  
But I think the fact that Mr M did exceed his limit on that prior occasion may give rise to a 
reason to more carefully consider whether a further increase would continue to be 
sustainable for him. And Im not persuaded that the checks NewDay carried out to establish 
this were sufficient in these circumstances. 
When his credit limit increased again just three months later to £4,000, Mr M seemed to 
quickly spend up to this limit. Again, I think this was a significant uplift for Mr M in a relatively 
short space of time. His statement from this time shows a large amount of spending, adding 
around £1,800 to his balance.  
Ive looked carefully through how Mr Ms used his card and his available credit limit. And 
Mr M has also provided copies of his bank statements, which give me a greater picture of his 
financial position. Im not saying that this is something that NewDay should also have done 
at the time it was carrying out proportionate checks when offering Mr M a higher amount of 
credit, but this helps to give me an understanding of his spending alongside that on his credit 
card. 
Mr M has told us that he was often reliant on his father to supplement his income, and I can 
see this on his bank statements. However, when his father was no longer in a position to 
provide him with financial support, Mr M had difficulty managing. 
Although I do appreciate that NewDay wasnt responsible for this change in Mr Ms family 
situation; I think it does indicate that Mr M was unable to manage his finances without this 
support. And I dont think that this is a situation that should have been relied upon to show 
that Mr M was able to afford to maintain his payments and be in a position to reduce his 
credit card balance within a reasonable time. Having looked through Mr Ms credit card spending and also the payments he was making 
towards his balance, I can see that there were times where he paid more than the minimum 
required payment. And, if taken in isolation, this could indicate an ability to maintain and 
manage the balance hed built up. But, when considering the wider picture that these 
payments were made with the help of his father, I dont think this indicates that reasonable 
and proportionate checks were carried out when NewDay increased Mr Ms credit limit. 
Essentially, over a period of less than two years, NewDay increased Mr Ms credit limit 
significantly, from a start of £600 to £6,000. NewDay has already found that it shouldnt have 
increased Mr Ms credit limit from June 2019, and instead should have decreased his limit in 
May 2019. It has refunded interest and charges applied to his account because of this. But it 
also said that the credit limit of £6,000 was suitable for his needs. At the time the related 
letter was written, Mr M was over £300 above this limit. So it is difficult to conclude that this 
was affordable and sustainable for Mr M in these circumstances, when  if NewDay had 
received the relevant information from the credit reference agencies in 2019  it would have 
looked to decrease his limit. 
Its because of this that I think the credit limit increases NewDay applied to Mr Ms account in 
August and November 2018, and in June 2019 were done irresponsibly and without 
sufficient, proportionate checks to ensure these increases didnt adversely impact upon 
Mr Ms financial situation. I think that these increases were a contributing factor in the 
position Mr M now finds himself in, with his debt now being held by the third party. 
Putting things right
I acknowledge that NewDay has already applied an interest refund to Mr Ms account 
balance to recognise that the increase to £6,000 shouldnt have been offered to him. But, to 
put things right in the light of my findings, NewDay should:
- repay the interest and charges on the proportion of the credit limit increase above 
£1,500, from the date of the credit limit increase to £2,700 (7 August 2018) to date. 
This should include any charges or interest applied since the account was transferred 
to the third party;
- remove all related adverse data on Mr Ms credit file including any adverse data 
recorded by the third party when the debt was transferred to it.
If the refund results in Mr Ms account being in a credit position, 8% simple interest should 
be applied to the resulting amount from the date the interest was applied to the date the 
complaint is settled. 
If NewDay considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
If Mr Ms account remains in a debit position once the interest and charges have been 
refunded; in order that he not be disadvantaged going forward, NewDay should arrange to 
transfer back his account from the third party and should agree a reasonable repayment plan 
with him for the balance.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and NewDay Ltd, trading as Marbles, should take the action I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman