DRN-1467101
 
The complaint
Mr R complains about his TSB Bank plc current account being closed and TSB's 
communication surrounding this. 
What happened
Mr R's current account went into an unplanned overdraft in April 2018 when a payment was 
made by debit card without sufficient funds in the account.  
TSB contacted Mr R on 16 April to make him aware of this and asked him to make payment 
to bring the account into credit. It wrote to Mr R again on 2 May 2018 explaining he was in 
his second month of being in an unplanned overdraft and asked him to make payment. It 
sent a final reminder to Mr R on 12 June 2018. This letter explained he had 30 days to repay 
the money owed or a default would be registered. Some payments were made but the 
balance wasn't cleared. So TSB decided to close the account in line with its collection 
procedures.
Mr R complained about a number of points to TSB in relation to this. He said he hadn't been 
able to use Internet banking, he wasn't happy that the balance he owed had increased due 
to charges, that he faced long waiting times on the phone trying to speak with TSB and a 
branch told him it couldn't help. TSB apologised for any problems Mr R may've experienced 
and paid him a total of £375 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it may have 
caused and any expenses he may have incurred. It confirmed Mr R had repaid the balance 
of the overdraft and said it hoped he would open a new account with TSB in the future.
Mr R contacted TSB saying lots of this letter was inaccurate as he hadn't repaid the balance 
or asked for the account to be closed. TSB responded for a second time on  4 July 2019. It 
agreed its original response to Mr R's complaint contained inaccuracies and explained this 
new letter was it's revised response. It said his account had been closed by TSB because it 
had remained in an unplanned overdraft which wasn't repaid, despite reminders. It confirmed 
it had no record of ignoring his contact and that it felt the £375 it had already paid was fair.
Mr R remained unhappy and contacted our service where one of our investigators looked 
into the complaint. He was satisfied TSB was entitled to close Mr R's account as the 
overdraft wasn't repaid. He said this was correctly reported on Mr R's credit file as defaulted. 
He acknowledged mistakes had been made in the communication from TSB, but he didn't 
think further compensation was due. 
Mr R disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So it has 
been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.It doesn't seem to be disputed that Mr R made the transaction which took him into an 
unplanned overdraft. I know Mr R has said he had problems getting in touch with TSB or 
getting to a branch. But I can see he did make some payments to the overdraft. Considering 
what I have, I think don't think it's likely Mr R wasn't able to repay the account because of 
TSB's actions. And I've seen nothing to suggest contact by him was ignored by TSB.
When the balance wasn't repaid, TSB wrote to Mr R on three occasions explaining his 
account would be closed and defaulted if the balance wasn't cleared. When the balance 
remained unpaid, I'm satisfied it was entitled to default the account and close it when it did. 
As the account defaulted, it is required to report this on his credit file as it has done.
I understand Mr R had some frustrations when making his complaint, including complaint 
points being misunderstood and some incorrect information being given. But I think 
TSB's second response to his complaint on 4 July 2019 does clarify all of the points he's 
raised. And TSB has paid him a total off £375 in compensation. Other than incorrectly 
responding to Mr R's complaint, I don't think TSB has acted incorrectly. The amount it has 
paid is more than I likely would've awarded in this situation, so I'm not going to ask it to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
Whilst I recognise Mr R feels very strongly about this complaint, I'm satisfied TSB Bank plc's 
offer of £375 is fair and reasonable, so I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman