DRN-2912955
The complaint
Mr M complained that he received incorrect advice under his home emergency policy with 
British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) which resulted in him being unnecessarily 
pressurised into purchasing a new boiler.
What happened
Mr M had his boiler serviced by British Gas under his policy on 1 November 2019. He said 
the engineer told him his flue had a hole in it and because of this he would have to condemn 
the system, so proceeded to disconnect the boiler and gas supply. Mr M said the engineer 
didnt test the boiler. Mr M said he was worried as he didnt have hot water or heating.
Mr M said he was told that parts for his boiler were no longer available but said the engineer 
didnt check whether the flue was available. He said he was told he would need a new 
system, so British Gas arranged someone to come out the next day to quote for the supply 
and fit of a new boiler and flue. Mr M agreed to the quote, paid a deposit and was given an 
installation date of 12 November 2019.
In the meantime, Mr M found online a new flue suitable for his boiler. He informed British 
Gas and it agreed to send out a technical engineer to his property on 5 November 2019 to 
provide a second opinion on what was needed. Mr M said the technical engineer advised a 
new flue would fix the issue and advised this could be obtained and fitted by British Gas. Mr 
M said the cost of just the flue was nearly £1,700 cheaper than having a new boiler / system 
fitted.
Mr M hadnt received an installation date for the new flue. He said, I felt under significant 
pressure to continue with the new boiler as I did not know how long I would be without hot 
water and heating. He was worried it could be weeks before he would have a functioning 
heating system. So, Mr M went ahead and had the new boiler fitted.
Mr M was unhappy as he felt he was pressurised into having a new boiler fitted, which was 
considerably more expensive than having just a flue installed. He only went ahead as he 
was concerned he wouldnt have heating or hot water for a long time. He wants to be 
compensated for the difference in cost between the boiler/flue installation that he paid 
against what it would cost for just a flue.
British Gas said, despite the deposit being paid you could have cancelled the install before 
the installation took place however you chose to go ahead with the new install. It also said 
its engineer explained that parts were not obsolete but were very hard to get and could take 
months to get, the engineer explained however that he could arrange a quote for a new 
heating system. British Gas did send £40 compensation, £20 for the original misdiagnosis 
and £20 for the delay in providing a final response.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He said, Mr M had the correct 
information when he made the decision to proceed with the boiler replacement and couldve 
cancelled the installation if he didnt want it to go ahead, so he didnt think hed been treated 
unfairly. Mr M disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at whether British Gas dealt with its initial misdiagnosis / advice fairly. The 
conversation between the engineer and Mr M wasnt recorded so I dont know for certain 
what was said. British Gas said its engineer explained about the lead times on new parts 
and offered to get Mr M a quote for a new boiler / system. Mr M explained it as a 
misdiagnosis and said he was advised to get a new system. On Mr Ms request, British Gas 
sent a second engineer and confirmed the system could be prolonged by replacing the flue.
I cant say whether the first engineer provided misinformation, but I dont think it had an 
impact on what eventually happened. I think British Gas dealt with the situation reasonably, 
by providing a second opinion. It has also offered some compensation, which I think is fair 
given there was minimal impact on Mr M. So, I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
I have then looked at Mr Ms complaint that he felt pressurised into purchasing the new 
boiler. He said he didnt have an installation date for just the flue, so he felt the installation of 
a new boiler / new system was his only option to getting heating installed in a timely way.
I have looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy and due to the age of the boiler 
and exclusions for the flue, any work carried out wouldnt be covered by the policy. So, 
British Gas quoted for the work that was required, but equally Mr M couldve gone to another 
supplier / gas fitter if he wanted to. He didnt have to use British Gas.
Mr M chose to have British Gas replace the boiler, he didnt seek out any alternative quotes 
or to see if another supplier could do the work quicker. British Gas said Mr M had the option 
of cancelling his boiler installation before it was fitted. I think this is a fair statement. The 
other option wouldve been waiting for compatible parts to become available for his own 
boiler before they could be fitted. British Gas had interacted with Mr M to say it would be 
able to source and fit the new flue, but it hadnt yet managed to give him an installation date. 
I think British Gas wouldve likely provided Mr M an installation date for just the flue once it 
knew when the compatible parts would be available for installation.
 
I think Mr M was aware of the likely delay for the flue only option. I have studied Mr Ms 
renewal letter and it says your boilers manufacturer stopped making your particular model 
of boiler a while ago. Theyre still making the most important parts for your boiler, some other 
parts are becoming difficult to source. British Gas also said its engineer informed Mr M of 
the potential long lead times.
I think Mr M was aware of the two options and the prices of those options, he also had the 
choice of using a different supplier. He had paid a deposit for the boiler but had been talking 
to British Gas about alternative options. So, I do think Mr M made a conscious decision 
himself to go ahead with the option he preferred, and I think in the circumstances he 
couldve cancelled the new boiler if he wanted to. So, I dont think he was pressurised into 
paying for the new boiler. In addition, Mr M will have the benefit of the new boiler for many 
years, so I dont think its reasonable to expect British Gas to subsidise the cost of this. 
Therefore, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require British Gas Insurance 
Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman