DRN-2906957
The complaint
Miss K complains about the delays she experienced when she requested to extend her 
lease agreement with Lex Autolease Ltd. Shes also unhappy that the renewal cost 
increased.   
What happened
In December 2018 Miss K was supplied with car and entered into an agreement with Lex. 
The agreement was for 24 months.
Miss K says that in September 2020 she contacted Lex by telephone to request to extend 
the lease. She says she understood from the conversation that this had been completed and 
that she would receive confirmation by email.
In December 2020 Miss K received a letter from Lex advising that her contract was due to 
end. Miss K says she replied and advised that she had already renewed the lease. She says 
she was advised by Lex that the documents she needed to sign had expired, to which she 
replied that she hadnt been asked to sign any documents. Lex asked Miss K is she wanted 
a new quotation and she replied that she wanted to extend the lease.
On 11 January 2021 Lex wrote to Miss K advising her that her lease had entered informal 
extension and that she would be charged an additional sum until the lease was renewed. It 
provided a quotation and documents for Miss K to complete. 
Miss K says she completed the documents and sent them back but received a reply from 
Lex advising that she hadnt completed these properly. Miss K said she had already 
provided the information Lex said was missing and she sent this again. She also made a 
SAR and received some, but not all, of the information she requested.
Lex processed the renewal and the new lease was implemented in March 2021. It offered 
Miss K compensation of £25 for the delays.
Miss K remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said Lex had delayed the proves of extending the 
lease and had applied the informal extension fees unfairly. He said Lex should refund all of 
the extension fees and pay further compensation of £25.
Lex accepted the view and said it would refund all three months worth of extension fees 
(£208.32) and pay the further compensation.
Miss K didnt agree. She said she wanted Lex to honour the quotation it had sent her in 
September 2020, because it was lower than the quotation sent in January 2021. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about whether Miss K was right to assume that her lease had been extended 
following her telephone conversation with Lex in September 2020.
Lex hasnt been able to provide a copy of the call recording - it says this could be due to a 
system error. Because I havent been able to listen to the call, I cant be certain of what was 
discussed. I think its more likely than not that a call took place and that a lease extension 
was discussed I general terms. However, when considering whether Miss K was right to 
assume that her lease had been extended on the strength of one call, Im not persuaded that 
it was. I think Miss K ought reasonably to have expected to have to sign some 
documentation to confirm the lease extension. 
That said, its clear that from December 2020, Lex was responsible for some delay in 
extending the lease. Im persuaded that Miss K made it clear in December 2020 that she 
wanted to extend the lease. Lex shouldve issued extension documents to Miss K promptly, 
but it didnt do this until January 2021 and in the meantime, charged extension fees. I dont 
think this was fait in the circumstances. Further, and given theta Miss K returned the 
documentation in January 2021, I dont think Lex processed the extension as quickly as it 
could have done, because the lease wasnt renewed until March 2021.
Theres nothing to suggest that Miss K was responsible for the delay. On balance, I dont 
think it was fair for Lex to charge any of the extension fees. 
Ive considered the points made by Miss K about the difference in quotations. However, Miss 
K hasnt persuaded me that she formally accepted the quotation in September 2020, 
whereas its clear that she accepted the quotation in January 2021. For this reasons, Im 
persuaded that the January 2021 quotation applies. I understand Miss Ks frustration  that 
the cost increased, however, the cost of lease agreements vary from time to time so I dont 
think Lex has acted unfairly here.
Im not going to comment on the SAR request because Miss K has already agreed that this 
is something that only he Information Commissioners Office can look into.
Putting things right
Lex Autolease Ltd must refund all of the informal extension fees and pay further 
compensation of £25 to Miss K.  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Lex Autolease Ltd to take the steps set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman