DRN-3504671
The complaint
Mr T has complained after an attempted withdrawal from his Interactive Investment Services 
Limited (IISL) account didnt go through. He is also unhappy with the charges he had to pay 
despite the funds being returned. 
What happened
Mr T requested an online withdrawal from his IISL account into his US dollar bank account 
on 7 March 2022, for $35,000. IISL say there was a charge for such a transaction of $20, 
meaning this was added to the amount debited from his account. 
However, an amount of $34,962.02 was returned to Mr Ts account. IISL say this was 
because the receiving bank rejected the payment due to incorrect details, but deducted a fee 
of $37.98. 
Mr T remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. He said that he didnt think 
IISL had acted correctly when sending the payment and that he hadnt been given a correct 
explanation for the failed payment. He was also unhappy with the charges that were 
deducted. 
Our investigator looked into it but didnt think that IISL had done anything wrong when 
sending the payment to Mr Ts USD account. He felt the $20 charge was fair and in the 
accounts terms and conditions. He also said that he couldnt hold IISL responsible for a 
charge being deducted by the receiving bank. 
Mr T remained unhappy and felt that IISL could have done more. IISL said they did reverse 
the $20 charge previously taken and paid it into Mr Ts trading account. They also confirmed 
that the details mis-match causing the failed payment was due to differing addresses. 
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T is understandably unhappy that the withdrawal he requested of his own funds from his 
IISL trading account to his own bank account didnt go through. A transaction that he has 
done before. However, I have to consider the role of IISL and whether they did anything 
wrong. 
IISL have provided us with the return reason given by Mr Ts recipient bank and it states that 
they were unable to apply the amount as the beneficiary account number was inconsistent. 
Following the return, Mr T looked into matters and subsequently established that the reason 
for the return was that there was an address mismatch. IISL have confirmed this and said 
that the recipient bank would have completed a check on the recipients address they have 
against the recipient address details being given. IISL had a UK address for Mr T and the 
recipient bank had an international address for him. I dont believe IISL have done anything 
wrong in giving the address they had on record. 
Mr T is unhappy as he feels that IISL and their sending bank should have done more and 
been aware of the requirement that he found out. However, they had an address for Mr T 
which he had confirmed, and I wouldnt expect them to check any further on a transaction 
such as this. 
Mr T is also unhappy with the charges that were applied, especially as the withdrawal wasnt 
successful. IISL applied a £15 charge for an urgent international payment. I have been 
provided with the terms and conditions which state that this would apply, and I think thats 
fair and Mr T should have been aware of it. However, IISL have confirmed they refunded this 
amount anyway and applied it to Mr Ts trading account. I can also see that the funds were 
returned less $37.98 as a charge. However, this was applied by the recipient bank and I 
cant hold IISL responsible for it. 
In summary, I can see how this was frustrating for Mr T. He requested a withdrawal as he 
had done before and shouldnt be expected to be aware of the requirements for an 
international payment such as this. However, I cant find that IISL have done anything wrong. 
They gave the address details they had and they have refunded any charge they applied. I 
cant hold them responsible for a third-party charge when I dont find they did anything wrong 
when sending the payment. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman