DRN-1793787
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the service she has received from American Express Services 
Europe Limited (Amex) in respect of three transactions she made using her Amex charge 
card.
What happened
Mrs P made three payments to a company that I will call R for works to her property. These 
payments were:
25 July 2018 £8,840.40
26 August 2018 £7,270.86
28 August 2018 £2,753.15
Total £18,864.41
The total cost of the works was £25,768.01, £24,976.01 of which Mrs P paid (£18,864.41 
plus £6,111.60) and £792.00 which she didnt.
Mrs P was unhappy with the quality of the work undertaken by R. And having sought advice 
she understood she might have recourse for the quality of that work against Amex.
On 10 April 2019 Mrs P contacted Amex who agreed that it might be able to assist her.
On 24 April 2019 Amex explained to Mrs P that it was unable to assist her. This was 
because:
her card was a charge card (rather than a credit card) so Section 75 Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (section 75) protection wasnt available to her
it was too late for chargebacks to be raised, over 120 days having passed between 
the three transactions debiting her charge card and a dispute in respect of the same 
being raised with it
However, for not making the above position clearer sooner, Amex credited Mrs Ps charge 
card with £500 compensation.
Mrs P was unhappy with Amexs response to her complaint and so referred it to our service 
for investigation.
Mrs Ps complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that 
having credited her charge card with £500, Amex need do nothing further.
Mrs P didnt agree with the investigators view and so her complaint has been passed to me 
for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs P, but I agree with the investigators view on this complaint.
Mrs P has made detailed submissions to our service. And whilst I dont intend to respond in 
similar detail, I can confirm Ive read them all and taken them all into account when making 
my decision. So if I dont mention a particular point, or piece of evidence, it isnt because I 
havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my 
decision. I hope Mrs P doesnt take this as a discourtesy; its just a reflection of the informal 
nature of our service.
I would also point out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened given the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Finally, I would add that were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how 
we investigate a complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without 
interference from anyone else. Its up to us to decide what evidence we need to decide a 
complaint, where we should get it from, and what weight we should attach to it once we have 
it. 
evidence considered
What has happened here isnt in dispute. Therefore Im satisfied I dont need sight of any 
more evidence in order to reach a fair outcome in this case. This includes sight of evidence 
that Mrs P says she has been unable to secure from Amex herself, including a number of 
call recordings.
section 75 protection
I think Mrs P accepts what has been said on this point. But for the avoidance of doubt I can 
confirm that Im satisfied that Mrs P doesnt have, and has never had, section 75 protection 
in respect of her dispute because what she holds is a charge card and not a credit card.chargebacks
I appreciate Mrs P would really like a refund of the money she paid to R using her Amex 
charge card, if not more. But it needs to be remembered that it wasnt Amex that undertook 
to carry out the work to her property at the heart of her complaint. 
Now I dont doubt that Mrs P has lost out financially, but my role is an impartial one  we 
dont protect consumers, but consider complaints independently - so we arent on the side of 
the business or the customer. 
My consideration here is whether or not Amex has done anything wrong. A chargeback isnt 
a legal right that Mrs P has. Chargeback schemes are voluntary schemes set up between 
card issuers  such as Visa, Mastercard or American Express and merchants. In this case, 
the card was an Amex charge card and so its the American Express scheme rules that 
apply. 
There are only certain activities that American Express allows chargeback rights for. And it 
has set time limits for chargebacks to be raised.
If a card issuer (here its Amex) knows a chargeback is out of time, or its unlikely to 
succeed, I wouldnt necessarily expect it to make a chargeback attempt. 
The transactions in dispute took place in July and August 2018. Under the scheme rules a 
chargeback can be attempted within 120 days from the transaction. But there are some 
limited circumstances where that can be extended to 540 days. 
As Mrs P appears to be aware, where she disputes not receiving, or only partially receiving, 
goods and/or services then the maximum time in which a dispute can be raised is:
120 days from the date Amex processed the transaction
120 days from (whichever occurred first)
oThe date she expected to receive the goods and/or services or
oThe date she became aware that the expected goods and/or services would 
not be provided (not exceeding 540 days from the date Amex processed the 
transaction)
Its accepted by all that Mrs P didnt raise a dispute within 120 days from the date Amex 
processed her three transactions. Therefore what I need to have regard to here is the 
second part of the above test, that is did Mrs P raise a dispute within:
120 days from (whichever occurred first)
oThe date she expected to receive the goods and/or services or
oThe date she became aware that the expected goods and/or services would 
not be provided (not exceeding 540 days from the date Amex processed the 
transaction)
Now Mrs P says she was in time for Amex to raise a chargeback, or chargebacks, because 
she complained to it within 540 days from the date Amex processed the transactions.Now I accept that Mrs P raised a dispute with Amex within 540 days of it processing all three 
transactions. But this isnt the test. The test is that a dispute needs to be raised within 120 
days from when she expected to receive the goods and/or services (and didnt), or 120 days 
from when she became aware that the expected goods and/or services would not be 
provided (subject to a 540 day cap), whichever occurred first.
Mrs P first complained to Amex on 10 April 2019. So on this basis what I need to decide is 
whether, before 12 December 2018  120 days earlier than 10 April 2019  the goods and/or 
services should have been received by Mrs P and they hadnt been, or Mrs P was aware 
that the expected goods and/or services would not be provided. 
Now I can see, based on what Mrs P has said and submitted, that:
she had a meeting with R on 25 August 2018 to express her dissatisfaction with what 
had been done to date and to agree a way forward
on 26 August 2019 she had paid 97% of the total cost of the work, holding back just 
£792
she agreed for R to return the following week to rectify one identified snag, but it 
didnt
she agreed for R to return in the autumn/winter to rectify a number of other identified 
snags, but it didnt
Now I appreciate Mrs P will be disappointed, but based on her own submissions and 
testimony (including what Ive noted above) Im satisfied that she expected to have received 
the goods and/or services before 12 December 2019 and hadnt, and that she was aware, or 
ought to have been aware, before 12 December 2019 that the goods and/or services she 
expected to be provided with wouldnt be.
So because of this, I think that Amex were right not to raise the chargebacks and it acted 
entirely fairly and reasonably in not doing so.
other matters
Although I think Amex acted fairly and reasonably in not raising three chargebacks, or 
considering a claim from Mrs P under section 75, I accept that Mrs P suffered a degree of 
disappointment in believing, for a period of two weeks, that Amex would be doing so. But 
taking everything into account Im satisfied that payment of £500 for this disappointment 
represents an appropriate sum for Amex to have to pay.
For the sake of completeness I would also add that Im not persuaded it would be 
appropriate for Amex to pay anything towards the inspection report Mrs P had undertaken. I 
say this because, amongst other things:
Mrs P instructed an inspection report to be undertaken before she had spoken with 
Amex
although the report hadnt been written up, the inspection had been undertaken 
before Mrs P first spoke with Amex
the main purpose of the report, if not the sole purpose, was to support Mrs P in any 
action she might decide to take against R in court  not against Amex
such reports arent necessary for a consumer to bring a complaint to our service and 
its unusual, even where a complaint is upheld, for our service to make an award for 
costs in obtaining such a reportMy final decision
My final decision is that having credited Mrs Ps charge card with £500 American Express 
Services Europe Limited need do nothing further.
My final decision represents the last stage of this services dispute resolution procedure. 
Mrs P doesnt have to accept my decision, and if she doesnt do so, she will be free to 
pursue legal action against R or American Express Services Europe Limited. 
I would also add that if Mrs P remains dissatisfied with what American Express Services 
Europe Limited has, or hasnt, provided her under her data access request then this is a 
matter she might want to take up with the Information Commissioners Office.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman