DRN-2006547
The complaint
Mr G complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined his claim for theft under his home 
insurance.
What happened
Mr G lived in a room on the third floor of shared accommodation and he was covered for 
contents under his Renters Insurance with UKI. 
Mr G made a claim for theft of his property following a break in at his home. UKI sent an 
agent to investigate the loss but it didnt think there was enough evidence of a break-in: 
there was no damage to any of the doors leading into the main building or directly to his 
room, and none of the other ten residents had reported a break-in or theft from their rooms. 
Mr G said he didnt lock his door because he didnt have a key.
UKI asked Mr G to provide evidence of his loss. He offered bank statements, but he hadnt 
kept receipts to verify any transactions. He also provided photos of himself wearing the 
designer clothes and high-value watch he reported as stolen. However, UKI couldnt verify 
the loss from the information Mr G supplied. UKI declined his claim because Mr G hadnt 
provided evidence to show that an insured peril had occurred or that hed taken enough care 
to prevent one.
Mr G complained to UKI. He thought it had declined his claim because there were no sheets 
on his bed. He also complained that its case handler was racist and rude towards him during 
calls.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought it was fair for UKI to decline Mr Gs 
claim because he hadnt been able to prove his loss in line with the terms of the policy. And, 
she didnt find any evidence to support his allegations about the case handler.
Mr G didnt agree, although he didnt provide any further information or comment to explain 
why. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
My role is to decide whether it was fair for UKI to decline the claim in the circumstances. If it 
was, then Id need to be certain that it explained why to Mr G. Having considered the 
evidence, Im satisfied that UKI did nothing wrong.
It was Mr Gs responsibility to prove an insured peril (the break-in and theft) took place, and 
the terms of the policy require him to provide evidence of ownership:
For any claim you must:
Give us any relevant information and evidence that we ask for, including proof of 
ownership or value of the lost or damaged item and written estimates for repair. You 
will have to do this at your own expense.
While he provided some bank statements and photos of himself wearing some of the items 
he listed as stolen, Mr G was unable to link any of the items on his list with transactions on 
his bank statement. UKI asked for receipts, which he was unable to provide for the designer 
clothing or high-value watch and phone, even though some of the items were recent 
purchases and video footage showed the items still in their original bags. Mr Gs list of stolen 
items totalled over £6000, some of which UKI questioned the authenticity of given the 
absence of any proof of purchase.
So, based on the information here, I can understand why UKI declined Mr Gs claim - he 
wasnt able to prove he owned the items listed as stolen.
Mr G has since provided us with his receipt for the purchase of a games console and 
accessories. As this is an item he listed as stolen, I would consider that enough proof of 
ownership. However, UKI had further reasons for declining his claim which Ive taken into 
consideration - it wasnt able to confirm that an insured peril had occurred.
UKI got the following information from a variety of sources, including Mr G, its own agent and 
Mr Gs landlord:
 there was no evidence that anyone lived in the room;
 the wardrobe had been emptied of all the clothes, but the hangers left;
 the bed was bare;
 the only item in the room was a TV;
 none of the doors to the property showed signs of forced entry;
 none of the other ten residents heard anything or reported a break-in and theft, and 
 Mr G had been told to leave the property two months earlier and bailiffs were due to 
attend.
Although UKI wasnt sure whether Mr G still lived at the property, and therefore whether 
there had been a break-in, it didnt have any conclusive evidence. If Mr G was able to prove 
his loss, which appears to be the case with the games console, its UKIs responsibility to 
demonstrate that an exclusion applies. 
The term of the policy state:
 
Preventing loss
You must take reasonable care to prevent loss, injury or liability, damage or accidents to 
the contents covered under this policy.
Mr G confirmed that he left his door unlocked and UKI thought that was evidence of him not 
taking reasonable care. I agree. Its reasonable to expect someone to lock the door to their 
home when leaving it empty, especially for a few days as was the case for Mr G. And the 
terms of the policy clearly require that. Given that Mr G shared a home with other tenants, 
not necessarily known to him, its fair to think that locking the door to his room wouldve 
represented reasonable care. Mr G said he didnt have a key to his door, but he also told 
UKI he did lock the door. The landlord reported that he gave him a key, but Mr G hadnt 
returned it. Mr Gs most consistent account of events is that he didnt lock the door, so Im satisfied that UKI has fulfilled its responsibility to demonstrate that an exclusion applies. For 
that reason, I think it was fair for UKI to decline the claim.
Ive looked at the reasons for UKIs decision to decline the claim and I can see that it told Mr 
G why it had reached that decision. So I dont think there is anything more it needs to do in 
respect of the claim.
Mr G said the case handler was rude and he feels UKI discriminated against him. UKI 
investigated his complaint but didnt think there was any evidence of racism or rudeness. 
Ive listened to the calls between Mr G and the agent handling his claim and I agree with 
UKI. The agent came across as polite, professional and she and Mr G exchanged some 
light-hearted comments during the first call. As the call progressed, the case handler asked 
for landlord details, but Mr G said hed already given them and became frustrated. The call 
disconnected and the case handler couldnt reconnect, but Mr G explained later it was 
because his phone was charging. 
When the call continued, the case handler started the conversation by apologising for saying 
she didnt have the landlords details. During the gap in the calls shed checked and found 
the information. However, the apology was given very quickly and its not even clear that it 
registered with Mr G. Because of this, I can see why Mr G mightve thought UKI wasnt 
treating his claim seriously. The case handler went on to ask for further information around 
proof of ownership. He said his bank statements showed where he had bought the items and 
thought UKI shouldve been able to look at them on its system. The case handler explained 
that it didnt have access to his bank statements, and anyway, they would only show where 
hed shopped, not what hed bought.  Its clear that Mr G became frustrated with matters 
again and the case handler asked him to stop raising his voice. After a couple of requests 
and warnings that the call would end if Mr G didnt stop shouting, the case handler 
disconnected the call.
Although Mr G feels the agent was rude towards him, the evidence shows that she 
responded calmly and professionally towards him, even when his frustration resulted in him 
shouting at her. While Mr G may have interpreted UKIs behaviour differently, I havent seen 
or heard anything which would cause me to think it behaved inappropriately towards him. 
Mr G said he feels UKI has discriminated against him given the problems hes experienced. I 
can understand why Mr G feels that way but having looked at all the evidence I dont think 
UKI has done so. Nor do I think UKI has acted unfairly or unreasonably. I hope that it helps 
Mr G to know that someone impartial and independent has looked into his concerns.
In summary, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for UKI to decline Mr Gs claim because he 
couldnt demonstrate that an insured peril had occurred or proof of ownership. And UKI was 
able to demonstrate a lack of reasonable care taken to prevent loss. For these reasons, I 
think UKI declined Mr Gs claim fairly in line with the policy. I wont be asking UKI to do any 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman