DRN-2421202
The complaint
 Mr S complains in his capacity as a director of and on behalf of a limited company T that 
Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (APS) didnt do enough when he was the victim of a 
scam and sent money to one of their customers. 
For ease of reading, Ill mostly refer to Mr S where I mean T. 
 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. On 25 April 2019 around £1,300 was sent from Ts 
account as a result of a scam. At the time Mr S believed he was making payments for goods 
to be provided to his business. But he later learned hed been the victim of a scam. The 
account hed sent the money to was held with APS and Mr S complained. He was unhappy 
that a scammer had been allowed to open and operate an account.
APS responded to the complaint and said they couldnt share much detail for data protection 
reasons. But, they said theyd done their due diligence when opening the account and had 
complied with all their legal and regulatory obligations. They declined to offer a refund of Ts 
loss. 
Mr S brought the matter to our service. One of our investigators thought the complaint 
should be upheld. He identified that APS themselves had flagged unusual activity on their 
customers account. Theyd blocked an outgoing payment and had attempted to contact their 
customer. But when they got no response, they later released the block and allowed the 
payment to leave. This meant that Ts money which had previously remained in the account, 
was then transferred out. Our investigator thought that APS ought to have left the account 
blocked and if theyd done so, he felt Ts loss would have been prevented, as the money 
would have remained available for recovery. He recommended that APS refund T their loss 
and pay 8% interest.
APS disagreed and have asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. They said theyd 
tried to contact their customer to make sure it was a genuine instruction, not because they 
had concerns about the account. They point out that had the call been answered, its likely 
their customer would have confirmed the outgoing payment as genuine. They also said it 
wasnt reasonable to expect them to make enquiries with the sending bank as doing so 
would be too burdensome and would impact on the effective operation of the banking 
system. 
In February 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr S feels strongly that APS mustve failed to carry out the correct due diligence 
and anti-money laundering checks when opening the beneficiary account. But in the 
circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that APS correctly followed their account 
opening procedures, carried out checks to verify the identity of the named account holder 
and did their due diligence when opening the beneficiary account. There wasnt anything at 
the time that I think reasonably couldve alerted APS that the account they were opening 
would later be used fraudulently. So Im satisfied they didnt miss an opportunity to prevent 
Ts loss when opening the account.
But APS like all regulated banks have obligations to try to protect their customers from fraud. 
In this case, APS themselves blocked an outgoing payment from their customers account. 
Theyve said that when they were unable to speak to their customer, they released the 
payment the next working day. 
I accept that APS wouldnt necessarily have known at the time of the incoming payment from 
T that it had been made as a result of a scam. I also accept that (when blocking the outgoing 
payment) they were primarily concerned as to whether or not it was a genuine instruction 
from their customer. But they were concerned enough to hold the payment and to attempt to 
contact their customer. 
APS said the reason for the outgoing payment being stopped was because it was outside of 
their customers usual pattern of spending / activity. The terms of the APS account allow 
them to take this step. But I dont think its reasonable for APS to have taken a lack of 
contact from their customer as reassurance that there wasnt a problem with the payment 
their customer had instructed. I think the account should have remained blocked until theyd 
been able to speak to their customer. 
And whilst I appreciate APS might not have been able to indefinitely keep the account 
blocked  I also think its likely that a genuine customer would promptly contact their bank 
when they find their account has been blocked. This wasnt the case here, despite their 
efforts, APS werent able to speak to their customer between when they attempted contact 
on 25 April 2019 and the account closure that followed the notification of fraud. The outgoing 
payment was blocked on 25 April 2019. And APS first received notification that there was a 
problem with Mr S payment to their customer on 7 May 2019. 
At this point APS would have had reason to check the incoming payment from T and they 
would have seen that the beneficiary name provided was different to that of their account 
holder. As such, I think they would have then had further reason to maintain the block on the 
account and, if then contacted by their customer, to have asked for proof of entitlement to 
those funds.
Even if APS processes dont allow for an account to remain blocked for that amount of time, 
I think its likely that if the maximum permissible time had elapsed, without reassurance from 
their customer that they werent at risk of financial harm, its likely APS would have reviewed 
the account. And upon such a review they wouldve identified the mismatched beneficiary 
name on the incoming payment which should have given APS additional cause for concern. 
At which point there are a variety of potential concerns that APS might have had for their 
customer including account takeover or being used as a possible money mule. This is 
particularly the case as the records provided indicate that the address and phone number 
associated with the account were changed shortly after the block on the account was 
released. 
APS have suggested that if the contact was successful, then their customer most likely 
would have confirmed that it was a genuine (outgoing) payment which would have been 
released in any case. I accept its likely this would have been the case  had APS been able 
to speak to their customer. But even after the scam had been reported APS havent evidenced that there was any contact from their customer. So whilst I appreciate that APS 
feel this is a finding based on assumption, I have to think about what would have been most 
likely to have happened. And on that basis, I dont think their customer would have contacted 
them  just as they didnt once the scam was reported. And in these circumstances, I think 
the account should have remained blocked. If this had happened, I think Mr S money would 
have remained in the account and would have been available for recovery.
   
As such I think it would be fair and reasonable for APS to reimburse T the funds they lost. 
Along with 8% simple interest (yearly) to compensate for being without those funds for that 
period of time.
Mr S responded to say he accepted my provisional decision. He commented that little had 
been said about the due diligence in allowing a fraudster to open an account in the first 
place. 
APS disagreed with the outcome in my provisional decision. They made some further 
comments which Ill address below. Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I 
can go ahead with my final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I understand why Mr S feels little has been said about due diligence at account 
opening  Id like to assure him Ive reviewed what wed expect a bank to do and Im 
satisfied APS didnt miss an opportunity to prevent his loss when opening the account. 
Mr S thinks that as the identity of the scammer is known to them, APS should report this 
matter to the police. But it is for Mr S (as the victim), not APS, to report it to the police if he 
wishes to do so. 
APS said that they responded immediately to the notification from Mr S in May 2019, taking 
the appropriate action. They pointed out that prior to this notification, whilst they had 
identified an outgoing payment from their customers account as unusual and had tried to 
contact their customer. Their process at the time was that if this contact was unsuccessful, 
the funds would then be released. They also said that they didnt consider it reasonable to 
expect them to block an account for 12 days in these circumstances. They felt that our 
service would be likely to uphold a complaint from a genuine customer if they had their 
account blocked for such a period of time. 
Ive considered all of this and I acknowledge that there is a balance to be struck between the 
competing obligations to be alert to instances of fraud or unauthorised account use and to 
allow customers to freely operate their accounts. But in the circumstances of this complaint, I 
dont think it was reasonable for APS to take a lack of contact with their customer as 
reassurance that they werent at risk of financial harm. 
I also think its more likely that most genuine customers would promptly contact their bank 
upon being unable to make a payment that they were instructing. The key factor here is that 
APS were concerned enough to initially block the payment. But that concern didnt then 
extend into the following working day when the funds were allowed to leave. I think what 
APS themselves had identified as an unusual payment from their customers account, 
shouldnt have been released without some contact from that customer. Had this payment been held (as I think it should have been) I think it would either have 
resulted in the notification of fraud arriving or it would have prompted APS to have reviewed 
the account. At which point, as Ive covered above, its likely this would have resulted in the 
discovery of the mismatch between the beneficiary and account holder names. In either case 
I think its most likely that the money would have remained in the account and would have 
been available for recovery.   
Having considered the additional points that APS raised, Im not persuaded to deviate from 
the outcome explained in my provisional decision.  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited:
Pay T £1,338 within 28 days of notification of Ts acceptance of my decision.
Add to this amount 8% simple interest to be calculated from the date of loss until the 
date of settlement.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman