DRN-3564344
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained about the poor service they received from AA Underwriting 
Insurance Company Limited (AAUICL) when they made a claim for an escape of water 
under their home insurance policy. 
As Mr S is the lead complainant for ease Ill refer to him on behalf of Mr and Mrs S in my 
decision.
What happened
In September 2021 Mr S reported a leak under the floor of their kitchen and he made a claim 
to their insurer AAUICL. AAUICL accepted the claim. 
Mr S was very unhappy with the lack of progress and raised a complaint with AAUICL. 
In December 2021 AAUICL upheld Mr Ss complaint. It accepted it had caused delays and 
paid £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Works hadnt started 
but were booked in to begin around 13 December 2021. 
Mr S thought the compensation AAUICL paid wasnt enough to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused. He brought his complaint to us. He explained that his elderly 
mother lived with them and had dementia. He explained the impact on daily life while waiting 
for the works to commence and having very limited use of their kitchen for almost three 
months. 
Our Investigator didnt think the compensation AAUICL had paid was enough. He considered 
what Mr S told us about the impact and recommend AAUICL increase the compensation 
amount by a further £500, to a total award of £600. 
Mr and Mrs S accepted the investigators recommendation.
AAUICL didnt agree. It however accepts that it didnt offer a fair compensation sum and has 
offered to pay an increased total sum of £350. 
The Investigator put AAUICLs offer to Mr S but he didnt accept it. He thought the 
Investigators recommendations were fair. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AAUICL accept that the compensation it paid of £100 wasnt enough to resolve Mr and Mrs 
Ss complaint and I agree. I think its clear from AAUICLs notes and from Mr Ss testimony 
that the claim was handled poorly and unnecessary delays occurred. 
Its also clear that AAUICL were made aware from very early on in the claim that Mr Ss 
mother had dementia. I can see that Mr S made several calls to AAUICL for updates and call 
backs were agreed but Mr S would then call AAUICL. 
There was some dispute between AAUICL and the contractors over costs and codes used to 
submit the contractors costs which led to delays. 
I know that for some of the period between 22 September 2021  when Mr S first contacted 
AAUICL  to around 6 December 2021 when AAUICL replied to their complaint  that Mr 
and Mrs S were on holiday. However, overall I think AAUICLs handling of the claim  with 
the knowledge that Mr Ss mother had dementia  was very poor  despite agreeing to treat 
the claim as a matter of urgency. 
The remaining issue for me to decide is whether AAUICLs offer to increase the 
compensation from £100 to £350 is fair and reasonable. 
We look at each case on its own merits when deciding compensation as no two cases are 
the same. Mr S told us that there was a hole in the floor of the kitchen  which I can see is 
referred to in AAUICLs notes. He said he had to put temporary boards down in the kitchen 
in order for them to safely access it. Many of the items they would use had to be moved from 
the kitchen into another room. Mr S explained that the disruption was heightened for his 
mother in light of her condition  and that this inevitably increased the distress for him and 
Mrs S. He says that eventually he had to put a lock on the kitchen door to prevent his mother 
from going in there and to keep her safe from harm.
Its reasonable to expect a degree of disruption and inconvenience when a claim is made. 
But in this case, I think AAUICLs poor service caused significant distress and inconvenience 
over and above what we would consider reasonable. And I think AAUICL were made aware 
of Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances early on. So it had an opportunity to ensure the claim was 
given priority. It failed to do this despite Mr Ss regular calls chasing for an update and 
progress on the claim. 
So I think in these circumstances  given the works hadnt begun almost three months after 
the claim was registered  that a compensation award of £600 in total for Mr and Mrs S is 
within the range of reasonable. I think this is a fairer sum to reflect the impact of the delay 
AAUICL caused in this case. Given the circumstances of this case, I think its clear that any 
delay will have had a greater than usual impact on daily living for Mr and Mrs S. 
Mr S says they didnt cash the cheque payment AAUICL sent for £100 in December 2021. 
Ive set out what I think AAUICL should do to put things right below. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to increase the compensation it pays Mr and 
Mrs S for the distress and inconvenience caused by its delay by a further £500, to a total of 
£600. 
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs S accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.
If AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs S how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs S a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, 
so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman