DRN-3944274
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr Z complain about Tesco Personal Finance PLC declining Mr Zs payment and 
blocking his account. They also complain about the standard of service when he 
complained.
What happened
Mr Z says that on 18 March 2022 he was unable to make a payment using his Tesco card, 
so he called Tesco Bank.
Mr Z says the Tesco representative was unhelpful and rude as they talked over him and 
didnt listen. Also, it wasnt possible for him to answer the security questions he was asked.
As Mr Zs card wasnt working and the representative discontinued the call, Mr Z said it left 
him in a difficult position as he couldnt pay and didnt have any money.
Mr Z complained to Tesco Bank. They didnt uphold his complaint and said that Mr Z 
became extremely abusive when their representative asked security questions, so his call 
was disconnected.
Mr Z complained to our service and our investigator didnt uphold his complaint.
As Mr Z remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
Firstly, I must point out that we are an informal service for resolving disputes between 
financial businesses and customers and we arent a court of law and dont have the same 
powers. So, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
I dont doubt that there was an issue with Mr Zs actual card, and he was under the 
impression he was being stopped from making a payment. However, from reviewing the 
detailed information and data submitted from Tesco Bank, although its contested by Mr Z, 
Im satisfied that no transactions were presented to Tesco Bank for them to decline or block. 
And Tesco Bank didnt take any such action here.
As Mr Z thought Tesco Bank were blocking his transaction, I can understand his frustration 
when he called them and then couldnt answer the representatives security questions. 
However, having checked Tesco Banks terms and conditions and considered their 
explanation, Im satisfied that they were fully entitled to undertake the security check. Also, 
they had responsibilities including acting in Mrs K and Mr Zs best interests. 
I looked closely at the security questions and although I appreciate Mr Z isnt the main 
cardholder, I found them to be standard questions that were fair and reasonable for Tesco to 
ask. Also, when Mr Z couldnt provide answers, I found the representative to be helpful with 
both the questions and suggestion for the primary cardholder to call in.
When listening to the call I couldnt see that the representative was rude, talked over Mr Z or 
didnt listen to him. I found the representative dealt with Mr Zs call in a calm, patient and 
helpful way even when Mr Z interrupted her and disputed the type of questions she was 
asking. 
I think it understandable that when Mr Z started to use unacceptable language that the 
representative felt the need to both challenge him and terminate the call. And when Mr Z 
called back and asked to speak to her manager, I could see why she would have felt insulted 
and offended. Also, why Tesco Bank warned Mr Z about his abusive and aggressive 
behaviour. This is because I found their representative was subjected to continuous abusive 
language. 
So, considering all the above Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman