DRN-4132520
The complaint
Mrs M complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) has unfairly refused 
to meet a claim she made after she noticed water damage in her home.
What happened
In February 2022 Mrs M noticed water damage to a wall when she moved her sofa. She 
contacted AA and described the damage, and that shed also been aware for some time that 
some of the wood at the bottom of her door frame was also damaged. She wanted AA to fix 
the problem and repair the damage. AA explained that the policy Mrs M has would only 
cover repairing any damage  it didnt cover fixing the cause, presumably a leak. AA told Mrs 
M she should get a plumber in to fix the leak. AA also said that Mrs Ms policy didnt cover 
her for damage that had built up gradually, so it need not meet her claim. 
Some time later Mrs M complained, saying her policy covered her for any damage caused 
whilst finding a leak, so AA should find and fix the leak. AA agreed to send out a surveyor to 
look at the damage. He reported that the damage had been building up over some time and 
likely came from an unseen leak in the adjacent bathroom, as the shower was located on the 
opposite side of the wall to the main damage. He couldnt see any obvious causes of a leak, 
but noted Mrs M had continued to use the shower and hadnt at that point taken any steps to 
have a plumber look at the underlying problem. AA again said it wouldnt pay to repair the 
leak or the damage  but that Mrs M should keep any invoices for damage caused whilst 
finding the leak as they might form part of a claim.
In May Mrs M had a plumber attend her home and he found the cause of the leak and noted 
that there was serious damage under the shower. He didnt think there was any way Mrs M 
would have been aware of the problem until she noticed the damage to the wall in her sitting 
room.
AA still wouldnt meet the claim, so Mrs M asked us to review her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think AA had done much wrong. He noted that most insurance 
policies didnt cover damage that built up gradually, and he thought that  as Mrs M said 
shed noticed the damage to the door frame for some time, and the damage to the wall 
showed clearly, that AA had fairly relied upon the exclusion for gradual damage in the policy 
when it refused the claim.
Mrs M is unhappy about this as she says she reported the problem as soon as she noticed 
the damage to her wall.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid I cant uphold this complaint for Mrs M. I realise this isnt what Mrs M wants, but I 
will explain how Ive reached my conclusion.
Insurers are allowed to limit the things they cover under an insurance policy. In particular, 
home policies are meant to cover the results of an unexpected problem: they dont cover 
damage caused if things meant to be done as part of normal maintenance arent dealt with in 
a timely manner. 
Its also Mrs Ms responsibility to mitigate (that is stop or reduce) the effect of a problem, so 
any damage doesnt become worse than it already is.
Both of the above clauses are included in many home insurance policies, so I cant say Mrs 
Ms policy is particularly restrictive in what it covers.
I appreciate Mrs M says she reported the problem to AA when she noticed the damp in the 
sitting room. But she also said that shed been aware of the damage to the door frame for 
some time but didnt know what to do about it. AA is entitled to rely on what its contractor 
said when deciding if it should meet a claim. Ive looked at the pictures of both areas of 
damage. They do appear to be typical of damage that builds up over a fairly long period of 
time, as the contractor said. In particular the wall damage is extensive, and reaches up the 
wall above the sofa. 
I think its reasonable for AA to conclude that this is the sort of damage Mrs M should have 
noticed  and indeed she did say shed noticed the problem with the door frame some time 
before she made her claim. I do understand that she may have been unsure what to do 
about that, but that doesnt mean AA must meet the claim.
Im also aware that Mrs M continued to use her shower, even though she said that made the 
damage worse. And that, although AA told her in February that she should get a plumber out 
to fix any leaks, she didnt do that for several months. I understand that would have been a 
cost for Mrs M, but by leaving things as they were and using the shower, she hasnt taken 
steps to prevent further damage. 
I have thought about what Mrs Ms plumber said  that she wouldnt have known about the 
leak until the damage became apparent. Sometimes that build up of damage is covered on a 
home insurance policy as accidental damage to a building. But Mrs M didnt have that 
cover so that doesnt affect my decision.
Taking all of the above into account I cant say AA has assessed Mrs Ms claim unfairly. 
I dont know if Mrs M kept records of the cost of any damage caused when the plumber 
eventually found the cause of the leak. If she has, Id expect AA to assess these under the 
trace and access cover Mrs M has.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman