DRN-3572926
The complaint
Mr B complains about the valuation that Ageas Insurance Limited placed on his car following 
a claim made on his motor insurance policy. He wants this increased. Hes also unhappy 
that his premium increased for his new car. 
What happened
Mr Bs car was damaged whilst being driven by Mrs B, a named driver on the policy, and 
declared a total loss. Ageas eventually offered Mr B £1,521, less the £100 policy excess, in 
settlement of his claim. But Mr B was unhappy with this as hed found similar cars advertised 
for higher prices. And he said his car was in excellent condition at the time of the accident. 
He thought it was worth around £1,900. Mr B was also unhappy that when he replaced his 
car, Ageas charged him an additional premium of £67.87.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She looked for 
valuations of Mr Bs car in keeping with our approach. And she thought Ageas offer was 
within the range of valuations she found. So she thought Ageas valuation was fair and 
reasonable. She also thought Ageas was entitled to exercise its commercial judgement in 
setting its premium. 
Mr B replied that he thought Ageas should have offered him the top book price for his car 
which he thought was £2,000. He reiterated that his car was in exceptional condition and 
provided photographs to show this. He also wanted the additional premium refunded.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to read that Mrs B was hurt in the accident. I can understand that Mr B wants a 
fair settlement for the loss of his car. Ive considered the evidence hes provided for us. But I 
can see that his policy provides for the cars market valuation in the case of total loss. This is 
defined in the policy booklet:
The cost of replacing the car with another of the same make, specification, model, age, 
mileage and condition as the car immediately before the loss or damage happened.
The Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. 
We find these guides to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are 
based on nationwide research and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account 
regional variations. We also take all other available evidence into account, for example, 
engineers reports.
I can see that Mr B is unhappy with our approach, but its one we use as we believe its fair 
and reasonable for all parties. Also, its not for us to tell an insurer how it should establish the 
market value of cars. Again, we simply look to see whether its offer is reasonable. 
Mr B found similar cars to his own advertised at higher prices and he thought we should take 
this into account. But we dont find advertisements particularly persuasive as these are 
essentially asking prices and arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides 
are used as they provide evidence of likely retail selling prices. Its not for me to comment on 
how some publications arrive at their valuations of cars. 
Our Investigator thought Ageas final offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive looked to see 
how she arrived at this conclusion. I can see that she checked the motor trade guides we 
use for cars of the same make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mr Bs at the date of 
its loss. The valuations she found ranged between £1,023 and £1,740. I can see no 
deductions were made for the cars condition. 
Ageas offer fell within the range of these amounts, and so Im satisfied that it was fair and 
reasonable and made correctly in keeping with our approach. And I dont require Ageas to 
increase its offer. 
When Mr B replaced his car with one that cost less, he was charged an additional premium 
of £67.87. I can understand that he was disappointed by this. But, as our Investigator 
explained, its for Ageas to decide what risks it wishes to take and how to set its premiums. 
This is the legitimate exercise of its commercial judgement. So I cant say that it was wrong 
or ask it to pay Mr B any refund. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman