DRN-2751103
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Nationwide Building Society incorrectly reported a default on her credit 
file for an extended period. 
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I said: 
In 2003 Mrs Ls Nationwide loan defaulted. In 2006 Mrs L made a payment to clear the 
outstanding balance. Nationwide says the loan shouldve been marked as settled and 
closed at this time, but due to a mistake it remained open. Nationwide has confirmed the 
loan shouldve dropped off Mrs Ls credit file in 2009.
Last year, Mrs L says she applied for a mortgage but was declined on the basis of the 
default reported by Nationwide. Mrs L complained and Nationwide agreed it had made a 
mistake. Nationwide arranged for the adverse information to be removed from Mrs Ls 
credit file and apologised for its mistake. Nationwide offered Mrs L £100 compensation.
Mrs L referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Nationwide had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mrs L asked to appeal and said the compensation offered didnt reflect the impact of 
Nationwides error. Mrs L advised that as well as having a mortgage turned down, a credit 
card provider had reduced the limit on her account.
Mrs L has explained that Nationwides errors meant she had to revisit a difficult period 
from her past with her partner and children who were unaware of the situation. Mrs L also 
says she had moved a number of times and didnt receive statements Nationwide sent 
regarding the loan account. As Mrs L asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator said, Nationwide has confirmed it made an error when it failed to close 
Mrs Ls loan account in 2006, after she repaid the outstanding balance. That meant 
Nationwides systems continued to apply interest to the account and kept it open. In 
addition, Nationwide continued to report a default on Mrs Ls credit file and an active 
unsettled debt for around eleven years longer than it should have. Nationwide has 
confirmed it has taken steps to close the loan on its systems and amend Mrs Ls credit file. 
Mrs L has confirmed the loan entry no longer appears.
I need to decide how to fairly resolve this complaint. Whilst Im please Nationwide 
apologised and took steps to close the loan and remove it from Mrs Ls credit file, Im not 
persuaded £100 fairly reflects the impact of its error. Ill explain why.
Mrs L has told us that the default and following court order that was associated with the 
debt came about at a particularly difficult point. Mrs L has explained she thought the matter 
had been dealt with after she repaid the outstanding balance in 2006 and moved on with 
her life. Mrs L has told us this wasnt something she had previously mentioned to her 
partner or children. I understand Mrs L only became aware of the situation when she 
applied for a joint mortgage and was referred to her credit file. At that point, Mrs L has told 
us, she had to go through the difficult events that led to the loan default and subsequent 
court action.
I see no reason to doubt the information provided by Mrs L concerning how this issue has 
impacted her. I can understand why a historic debt of this nature wouldnt be something 
Mrs L wanted to relive or discuss again, especially at a stressful point, like during a 
mortgage application. I can see how this was a very upsetting situation for Mrs L.
Nationwide has provided loan statements that were sent to Mrs L. But Mrs L has told us 
she moved in the period following the loan being repaid and didnt receive them. In 
addition, I think its fair to say Mrs L wasnt looking out for information from Nationwide 
concerning a loan she told us had been repaid many years ago. I also note that no 
payments were made but Nationwide failed to attempt any other form of contact with Mrs L 
during this period. If Nationwides systems thought the loan remained open and had an 
outstanding balance, I think Mrs L couldve reasonably expected some effort from 
Nationwide to discuss it with her.
Whilst we cant know for sure whether Mrs Ls mortgage application ran into difficulty or 
whether her credit card limit was reduced as a direct result of Nationwides error, I think 
its reasonable to note that it failed in its duty to report accurate information about how she 
handled the loan for a very long time. I can understand how upsetting this was for Mrs L 
when she found out what had happened. Im not persuaded £100 reflects the distress 
caused.
Mrs L has told us she would like an increased level of compensation to reflect the impact 
of Nationwides error and I agree thats reasonable. But we dont fine or punish a business 
and the awards we make focus on how the issues raised have affected the consumer. Ive 
carefully considered the existing offer of £100 and I dont think thats a fair award taking 
the events of Mrs Ls complaint into account and the length of time the issue has gone on 
for.
Based on everything Ive seen, I intend to increase the award for the distress and 
inconvenience caused from £100 to £350. In my view, that figure more fairly reflects the 
impact of N reasonable way to resolve this complaint.
I asked both parties to respond with anything further they wanted me to consider before I 
made my final decision. 
Both Mrs L and Nationwide responded and said they are willing to proceed in line with my 
provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have responded to confirm acceptance of my provisional decision, Im going 
to proceed in line with the compensation I set out. I still think the fairest approach is for Nationwide to pay Mrs L a total of £350 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
caused, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to pay 
Mrs L £350 (less any compensation already paid) for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by its actions. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman