DRN-2547676
The complaint
Mr D complains Vanquis Bank Limited sold a debt in his name, which he says he isnt 
responsible for, to a third party and has unfairly recorded negative information on his credit 
file. 
What happened
Mr D says he had a car finance application declined. This led to him checking his credit file 
and he discovered a default had been recorded by a debt collection firm. They said the 
default related to a credit card issued by Vanquis. Mr D said hed never applied for or used a 
Vanquis credit card, so there shouldnt be any adverse information recorded on his credit file 
relating to one. Mr D got in touch with the debt collector and Vanquis and he discovered 
some information about the account. 
The credit card was applied for in Mr Ds name in May 2014. Three cash withdrawals in July 
and early August 2014, along with various fees and charges, took the account over its £250 
credit limit. The first payment made towards the card in September 2014 was returned 
unpaid. Vanquis spoke to Mr D on at least three occasions in late 2014 and early 2015 about 
the arrears on the account. 
A default was recorded against Mr D in June 2015 and the account was sold to the debt 
collection firm in October of the same year.
In February 2019 Mr D complained to the debt collection firm. Though it didnt think the 
information had been recorded incorrectly, it took the decision to no longer pursue the 
outstanding debt and remove the default from Mr Ds credit file.
Mr D then complained to Vanquis. He said the information on the application form hed 
received wasnt correct. He also pointed out a difference of about eight months between the 
date of the applicants signature and that of Vanquis.
Vanquis responded to Mr Ds complaint. It said hed failed to return a fraud declaration theyd 
sent to him and, without that, they wouldnt investigate further. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. Ultimately, they were persuaded Mr D 
entered into the agreement, particularly given the content of telephone call recordings 
between him and Vanquis that theyd listened to. 
Mr D disagreed. He said that he thought he was speaking to another credit card provider 
during the calls, not Vanquis. Hes also told our investigator that he wasnt in the country 
when the application form was signed and wouldnt have used one of the cash machines 
that money was withdrawn from.
He said adverse information was still appearing on his credit file and hed like it removed. 
Hes also asked for compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
The question I need to consider is whether Mr D entered into the credit agreement and 
carried out the transactions which took place. If he did, then it follows its fair and reasonable 
that Mr D is responsible for the debt and Vanquis havent made an error by selling his 
account to a third party. 
The application form contains not just Mr Ds correct name, address and date of birth, but 
also the email address and mobile phone number that he has provided to our service. If, as 
Mr D suggests, an unknown third party applied for and used the card, its unlikely theyd give 
Mr Ds correct contact information. Doing so would only risk discovery and would provide no 
obvious benefit. It also jars with what Mr D has said about information on the application 
form being incorrect. 
Ive listened to the calls between Vanquis and Mr D. He says he believed throughout that he 
was speaking to a different credit card provider. I dont find this explanation to be persuasive. 
Each call begins with the adviser asking Mr D whether he is the Vanquis card holder. On 
each occasion Mr D confirms he is  only once does he mention another credit card 
provider, and this is quickly corrected by the adviser. The calls contain detailed discussions 
about the balance, payments that have been made and further contact. If Mr D did believe 
he was speaking about another account, then its hard to see how this wouldnt have 
become apparent to him during the course of three separate calls. 
In addition, statements, the card and PIN and other letters (including arrears and default 
notices) would have been sent to Mr Ds address. If he didnt have any knowledge of the 
account, then these would have had to have gone unnoticed (or been ignored) by him too. 
Vanquis records also show some payments were made towards the account balance. And 
correspondence was received from the account holder in June 2015 advising that they were 
out of the country. Its hard to see what benefit there would be for a third party, 
impersonating Mr D for financial gain, to have done these things. 
Mr D has highlighted a discrepancy between the date the agreement was signed by the 
applicant and the date it was signed by Vanquis. Vanquis suggest this was because 
agreements are sometimes signed by them in batches at a later date. This doesnt seem an 
unreasonable explanation to me. In any case, I dont think this point is as significant as Mr D 
suggests.
Theres compelling evidence in the form of statements, telephone call recordings, contact 
notes and letters which show the card was being used prior to Vanquis signing the 
application form. So, I dont think this apparent discrepancy is relevant in deciding whether 
Mr D entered the agreement.  
And while Ive considered everything that Mr D has said, Im unable to put much weight on 
his other points, particularly in light of the evidence Ive already explained. Even if I accept 
Mr D was out of the country, as he claims, this would not have prevented him from signing 
the application at some stage. And neither is there any persuasive evidence to suggest he 
couldnt or wouldnt have used a particular cash machine.
Mr D was asked to provide a copy of his credit report by the investigator, but I cant see this 
has happened. So, its not entirely clear what information still remains on Mr Ds credit file, if anything at all. But, in any case, Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr D entered the credit 
card agreement as well as received and used the card. So, Vanquis hasnt made a mistake 
by holding him responsible for the debt, recording information on his credit file before they 
sold it, or in selling the account to a third party. Therefore, I wont be asking them to do 
anything further.
 
I understand the debt collection firm agreed to remove the default from Mr Ds credit file. If 
that hasnt happened, then thats something Mr D will need to take up with the debt 
collection firm directly.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman