DRN-2736203
The complaint (and background)
Mr D complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim on his pet insurance policy. 
All references to Great Lakes include its agents. 
Mr Ds dog was first diagnosed with cataracts in 2016. He received advice on having them 
surgically removed. But his circumstances at the time meant he wasnt able to commit to the 
costs or the levels of aftercare involved. In making this decision, Mr D noted that his dog was 
generally coping well with the cataracts and was otherwise in good health.
He later learnt of a Great Lakes policy which only treated things a pet has had treatment, 
medication or advice for in the 24 months before the policy start date as pre-existing. Mr D 
bought the policy, despite it costing more than other policies, because he thought it would 
cover the cost of surgery if his dog later became unable to cope with the cataracts.
In 2019, Mr Ds dogs eyesight began to rapidly deteriorate. He was reassured the surgery 
would be covered if the policy criteria was met. But once Great Lakes reviewed the dogs 
vets notes they declined the claim on the basis that Mr D had received advice from a vet 
about the cataracts in the 24 months before the policy started, which Mr D disputes.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 March 2021 telling the parties that I intended to uphold 
the complaint. I set out my reasoning as below:
Mr Ds policy stands out from others in that it defines a pre-existing condition as anything 
your pet has had treatment, medication or advice for in the last 24 months. This doesnt, in 
my view, prevent a claim being made where a pet has shown symptoms of something in the 
24 months before the policy start date, but no treatment, medication or advice was given.
The burden of proof rests with Great Lakes in this scenario to show that the exclusion, as its 
worded, can fairly be applied to Mr Ds claim. It accepts that his dog received no treatment or 
medication for cataracts in the 24 months before the policy start date, but it thinks Mr D was 
given advice. Advice isnt defined in the policy, but I think, in an everyday context, it means 
guidance or recommendations with regard to future action.
Mr D was advised his dogs cataracts were advanced enough to warrant surgery in 2016. 
The relevant note says adv really surgical case. I can see a referral was made to an eye 
clinic at the time. It seems from Mr Ds testimony that he made some initial enquiries, but 
decided against surgery once hed weighed up the costs and aftercare involved against his 
dogs overall wellbeing.
The cataracts were then noted again at subsequent visits. Great Lakes case rests in large 
part on a note from February 2019, which says:
Bilateral cataracts  OR has been present for a while looked into referral for Sx 
removal but too expensive, gets on ok at home still able to see.
Great Lakes has interpreted from this that the vet, who wasnt the vet that made the referral 
in 2016, wanted to make a new referral, but Mr D declined. But having looked through the 
notes, Im satisfied, given the contexts in which the vets use it in other notes, that OR is 
likely to be an abbreviation of owner reports.
Given OR prefaces the sentence as a whole, I think its more likely that this is Mr Ds 
commentary on the cataracts and their history. That would be consistent with a referral 
having been made in 2016, and Mr D making initial enquiries but then deciding against 
surgery for the reasons described in the note. So, I dont think the note shows any new 
guidance or recommendations were given in 2019.
The only way to get rid of cataracts is to remove them. But I think its likely that, for the vets 
not to have given Mr D any further advice about this for over 24 months, they must have felt 
comfortable his dog was coping well enough without surgery. I cant see that the policy terms 
stopped Mr D insuring himself against the cost of any future treatment, medication or advice 
that might be needed once his dog had gone 24 months without any. Thats presented as a 
selling point of the policy in fact (other policies dont cover pre-existing conditions at all). 
Im not satisfied Great Lakes has shown Mr D received any renewed guidance or 
recommendations with regard to future action to manage the cataracts in the 24 months 
before the policy started. While I agree the cataracts were still present during that period, 
and that Mr D had previously received advice on having them removed, I dont think that 
meets Great Lakes definition of a pre-existing condition.
I intend to uphold this complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay Mr Ds claim in 
line with the remaining terms and conditions of his policy. Interest should be added to the 
settlement at a rate of 8% annual simple from the date Mr D paid for the surgery to the date 
of settlement.
Both Mr D and Great Lakes have since responded and accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my findings as set out above.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay Mr Ds claim in line with 
the remaining terms and conditions of his policy. It should add interest to the settlement at a 
rate of 8% annual simple from the date Mr D paid for the surgery to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman