DRN-3098579
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the customer service he received from Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) 
following a chargeback request.
What happened
Mr R raised a chargeback request due to the delays in receiving a refund on an online 
purchase. Monzo credited Mr Rs account with the disputed amount of £49.62. Shortly after, 
the merchant gave Mr R a refund. 
Monzo told Mr R theyd take back the refund they gave in two weeks. Mr R asked if they 
could deduct his account as soon as possible. He was concerned about spending the funds 
and incurring interest. Monzo told him theyd respond within seven days.
A few days passed and Mr R asked Monzo to cancel his request for the payment to be taken 
sooner. He told Monzo that hed spent some of the money due to an emergency and said 
hed pay when the money was due. 
Mr R contacted Monzo a couple of days after asking for an extension to repay the money he 
owed. He explained he was having financial problems. Monzo told Mr R that his request had 
been passed to a specialist team and theyd contact him as soon as possible.
While waiting for a response, Mr R sent Monzo several messages. Monzo replied the next 
day letting Mr R know that they couldnt delay debiting the payment  so his account would 
enter an unarranged overdraft if there wasnt enough money to cover it. If this happened, 
they agreed to give Mr R a two-month period to clear the balance.
Mr R asked Monzo questions about the interest hed be charged and the impact on his credit 
file. He decided to borrow funds from a friend to cover the payment which successfully 
debited his account. 
Monzo looked into the concerns Mr R raised. They apologised for the delays in responding, 
and said theyd passed feedback to their teams and paid Mr R £60 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr R initially accepted this, but then referred his complaint to our service as he felt the 
compensation of £60 doesnt make up for the distress he was caused. 
Amongst other things, Mr R said Monzo was slow to respond, kept him waiting for long 
periods, he had to speak to different agents who couldnt help, and that the specialist 
department werent always available. He was also disappointed that Monzo didnt grant him 
an extension when he was experiencing financial difficulties.
Mr R told us how this impacted him, including that he felt lost, ignored and helpless. He 
explained he was under pressure and was left with no choice but to borrow money. And the 
way he was treated, made him feel stressed and unsupported. 
Our investigator said that Monzo had acted fairly as they told Mr R when the payment would 
be taken and offered to support him. She thought the compensation offered of £60 was fair 
and didnt ask Monzo to take any further action. Mr R disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a chargeback request is raised, the bank usually gives their customer a temporary 
refund while investigating the dispute. This is what Monzo have done here. 
Since Mr R received a refund from the merchant, it wasnt unreasonable for Monzo to ask for 
their money back. Monzo have explained their process is to give customers two weeks and 
then automatically collect the funds.
Monzo are entitled to decide how they deal with re-debiting the account. I can see they told 
Mr R on 13 April 2021, that theyd be taking the refund back in two weeks. Theyve acted 
reasonably here as they kept Mr R informed and gave him sufficient notice.
I dont think Monzo were required to agree to Mr Rs request to take the payment sooner or 
give him an extension. As I mentioned above, its up to Monzo to decide how and when they 
deduct the money. Ultimately, its Mr Rs responsibility to manage his finances  including 
taking steps to ensure he had the funds available on the date the payment was due to be 
collected.
That said, Id expect Monzo to help Mr R when he told them about his financial difficulties. 
But this doesnt mean they had to agree to delay deducting the payment. There are other 
ways for a bank to help.
Monzo reassured Mr R theyd support him with re-paying the amount if he entered into an 
overdraft due to having insufficient funds to cover the payment. They offered to give him a 
two-month period to clear the balance. They also asked Mr R about his priority bills and 
enquired about redirecting credit payments to another account to prevent it from clearing the 
overdraft. 
I know these options werent acceptable to Mr R as he didnt want his credit file to be 
impacted and incur interest on an overdraft. But Im satisfied Monzo treated him fairly as 
these were reasonable suggestions to help him with his financial difficulties.
Having looked at the chats, I agree with Mr R that he received poor customer service. I say 
this because when Mr R asked Monzo to take the funds as soon as possible, I think they 
shouldve been upfront about their process of collecting the refund. Since their process is 
automated, the payment couldnt be taken sooner or later than the two-week period. 
If Monzo had made this clear to Mr R from the outset, then his expectations wouldve been 
better managed, and it couldve avoided him unnecessary frustration and annoyance of 
having to send several messages. 
I think broadly Monzo replied to most of Mr Rs messages within a reasonable time, 
particularly given that the messaging service isnt instant. But I still wouldve expected 
Monzo to have acted on Mr Rs request to delay taking the payment sooner. 
I say this because when Monzo acknowledged Mr Rs message, they should reasonably 
have been aware that his query was urgent and tried to assist him quicker. I agree Monzo responded a day later  but by this point Mr R had sent several messages, including asking 
Monzo to call him. 
It was clear from these messages that Mr R was distressed and worried about the payment 
being deducted from the account. I wouldve expected Monzo to have contacted him by 
phone to address his concerns, as Mr R had requested.
Mr Rs circumstances at the time were already distressing to him as he had to deal with an 
emergency and then ran into financial problems. I agree Monzo added to his worry and 
caused him stress and frustration due their customer service issues.
To put things right, Monzo have apologised and passed feedback to their teams. They also 
paid Mr R £60 compensation. Having carefully thought about the impact on Mr R, I think £60 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I note Mr R 
initially accepted this too.
Monzo clearly explained to Mr R on 20 April 2021 that they couldnt delay the payment being 
deducted from his account. This was the day after Mr R made his request, so I dont think 
the worry and stress caused by Monzo was prolonged.
While Mr R continued to exchange several messages with Monzo about the extension, 
theyd already told him they couldnt delay the payment and reiterated this. I accept the 
whole situation wouldve been distressing to Mr R, particularly since he had to borrow 
money. But I cant fairly hold Monzo responsible for that. 
I know Mr R feels hes only been compensated by £10 as he had to return the money he 
borrowed. I dont agree as Mr R had use of the refund Monzo gave him. And since he 
received the refund from the merchant, he wouldve always had to repay Monzo. The 
compensation Monzo gave was in addition to the refund he received.
Overall, Im satisfied that Monzo have resolved this complaint fairly, so I wont be asking 
them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that Monzo Bank Ltd have already 
fairly resolved this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman