DRN-3188395
The complaint
Mr G has complained about his home insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc because when his 
home was broken into it refused to cover a damaged curtain pole, table and chairs. The 
claim also took a while to progress.
What happened
Mr Gs home was burgled on 13 November 2020. A window was damaged and a door was 
smashed by the thieves to gain entry/exit. Jewellery was stolen and Mr G reported damage 
was done to some items in the house too. He sent photos of everything to AXA on 
15 November 2020.
AXA agreed to settled with Mr G for the stolen jewellery and damaged window and door. But 
when he asked it about repairing or replacing a curtain pole, dining table and chairs it said 
these werent covered. It said Mr G had said they were damaged by bleach, so they were 
only cosmetically damaged, and the policy doesnt cover items which are only damaged 
cosmetically (unless their only function is to be decorative). Mr G said the curtain pole was 
broken, as could be seen in the photos sent on 15 November. He said the chairs (two of a 
set of six) had damage to their backs  he provided photos showing the backs were pushed 
out from the frame. Regarding the table he said bleach had been poured on it  but this had 
affected the surface finish, it wasnt just cosmetic. 
AXA told Mr G it hadnt been able to view the photos sent on 15 November. Mr G said he no 
longer had the photos and hed replaced the curtain pole. He sent a receipt for a new pole 
and an invoice showing a small labour charge by a handyman for fitting. He provided an 
estimate from a website for a replacement table and chairs. AXA said it wouldnt cover the 
pole as Mr G hadnt shown it had been damaged. It maintained that the table was only 
damaged cosmetically. AXA finally accepted the chairs werent just cosmetically damaged. 
But it said it wasnt clear how the chairs would have been damaged during the incident, and 
Mr G hadnt shown they werent damaged before the burglary  so it wouldnt settle for them. 
AXA did accept though that it could have progressed Mr Gs claim more quickly at times. So 
it offered £100 compensation.
When Mr G complained to our service, our investigator noted the policy term regarding 
cosmetic damage. And he also accepted it wasnt clear how the chairs had been damaged. 
So he felt AXAs decline for these items was fair and reasonable, as was its offer of 
compensation for upset caused by delays. Mr G was dissatisfied and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
The complaint came to me for consideration. I felt that AXA had acted unfairly and 
unreasonably; that to make up for this it should make some further payments to Mr G, 
including a further £150 compensation (£250 total if £100 hasnt already been paid).
Mr G said he accepted my decision. AXA didnt respond to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
cosmetic damage term
This is, in my view, a significant and unusual term. Its significant because it takes away a lot 
of cover that a policyholder might usually expect to have purchased when buying home 
insurance. Its unusual because its a term that isnt common to most policies I know of. As 
such, the term should have been highlighted in the policy documents but it wasnt. If it had 
been, I think Mr G would have looked elsewhere for cover  and hed likely have found a 
policy that didnt contain such a big restriction. So, in my view, AXA cant fairly and 
reasonably rely on this term to decline any part of Mr Gs claim. 
curtain pole 
Mr G no longer has evidence of how this was damaged. But he had provided evidence to 
AXA when asked for it and it didnt tell him that couldnt be accessed. I think AXA fairly has 
to settle with Mr G for the replacement curtain pole, at £36 as evidenced by a receipt dated 
17 December 2020, plus interest* from the date of purchase until settlement is made. Im not 
going to make AXA pay anything more for fitting the pole. The invoice which included the 
curtain pole fitting charge also dealt with bathroom repairs. The cost of different jobs wasnt 
broken down and AXA paid the invoice in full in settlement of the part of the claim for 
damage in the bathroom. 
dining table and chairs
Ive said above that AXA cant rely on the cosmetic damage term to decline liability for the 
table. But Im not really persuaded its function hasnt been affected by the bleach anyway. It 
seems to me the bleach has stripped the varnish, and its on the eating surface of the table. 
So it seems to me it will be more susceptible to spills and heat damage than it otherwise 
would have been. It probably could have been repaired but AXA wasnt prepared to offer any 
cover for it. I think the time has now come when, fairly and reasonably, AXA should pay 
Mr G so he can replace the table.  
Im also mindful that the table is part of a set with six chairs. Two of which Mr G reported as 
damaged in the theft. I note AXAs concern about when this damage occurred to the chairs, 
but Im not persuaded the damage looks like the type Id usually associate with everyday 
wear and tear. Mr G had what seems to have been a violent robbery at his home  the door 
was smashed to gain entry and AXA accepted damage was caused in the bathroom, one 
photo Ive seen suggests there was likely at least an untidy search undertaken by the 
thieves. And Ive no reason to doubt Mr G that the chairs werent damaged in this way 
before. So, on the face of it, Mr G has done enough to show the chairs were likely damaged 
during the burglary, and AXA hasnt done enough to persuade me this is most likely not the 
case. So I think AXA is reasonably liable for the chairs. Im not sure the two chairs could 
have been repaired, although a skilled upholsterer might have been able to make them good 
again. But as with the table, I think too much time has passed now for it to be reasonable for 
me to allow AXA to look to repair the chairs. So it should pay Mr G so he can replace them.
Mr G previously provided an estimate for a replacement set of table and chairs  but this 
was based on a sale price available in 2020. However, I note the estimate did show the 
usual selling price as well. That was £1,099.99. Further, Mr G has explained, and I can see 
from the companys website, that theres a minimum standard delivery charge of £29.99.Of course I have to take into account the fact that the dining table and six chairs were a 
matching set, comprising seven items in total. And only three of those seven items were 
damaged in the theft; a table and two chairs. So, strictly speaking, if AXA had handled this 
reasonably, it would only ever have been settling in full with Mr G for replacing the table and 
two damaged chairs. It never reasonably, under the policy, had liability for paying for the 
whole set to be replaced. But, in line with this services usual approach to matching sets, 
AXA should always have been looking to contribute towards replacing the four, matching, 
undamaged chairs. We often find a contribution of 50% towards the cost of replacing 
undamaged but matching parts of a set is fair and reasonable. 
I note that in Mr Gs estimate the table and chairs arent priced individually, so Im going to 
divide the total cost of the non-sale price by seven, and multiply by three. That gives £471.42 
which AXA is liable for in its entirety. Then, dividing the original total by seven again, and 
multiplying that by four, gives £628.57, which AXA should pay half of  £314.28. Thats a 
total of £785.70 for AXA to pay, plus interest* from the date AXA received the estimate from 
Mr G in November 2020 to account for any increase in price from last years figures.
Im not going to award the delivery charge at this time. Not every company that delivers 
large, and costly furniture, adds a delivery charge on top. So I cant be certain that, when 
Mr G replaces the dining table and chairs, he will incur a delivery charge. But if he does, and 
he sends proof to AXA, it will have to reimburse that to him within 28 days of receipt of proof. 
If it delays in making that payment, interest* will become due.
claim settlement
When Mr G complained to us in June 2021 he said the offer that AXA had made to him in 
January  for the items AXA accepted it was liable for, hadnt been paid to him. AXAs file, at 
least into May 2021 seems to support this  it refers to the matter being unresolved as Mr G 
hasnt accepted the settlement offer. Usually Id expect an insurer to offer an interim 
payment for amounts that arent disputed. And I see AXA did that here. But in February Mr G 
told AXA that he wanted the dispute resolving before receiving payment  so I can 
understand why, at that time, AXA didnt pursue the issue of making an interim payment to 
Mr G. 
But, as time went on, I think AXA could have reviewed this, and certainly at the point it 
received a formal complaint from Mr G. And, at the latest, it could have clarified in its final 
response that Mr G could accept the offer and still complain to ourselves if he was unhappy 
about the disputed items. But it didnt. AXA couldnt have forced Mr G to take the money, but 
it could have been clearer about his right to do so and still complain. On balance, I think AXA 
should have done this by the end of February 2021 when, by which time, I think, it was clear 
that the issue about the disputed items wasnt going to resolve easily. Mr G has been 
unreasonably out of pocket for these funds since. 
So Im going to require AXA to pay the settlement figure to Mr G now, plus interest. If its 
paid the settlement figure already, it wont have to pay it again. But it will still have to pay an 
amount equivalent to the interest* applicable on the settlement sum from 1 March 2021 until 
the settlement was paid.claim handling
AXA accepts it could have progressed things more quickly. And I think thats true. I bear in 
mind what I said above also about when AXA should have paid Mr G the settlement for 
items that werent in dispute. Ive also noted above that AXA should have been clearer with 
Mr G earlier on in the claim that it couldnt access the photographic evidence he had 
provided. And my overall view is that AXA acted unfairly and unreasonably in declining the 
part of Mr Gs claim for the pole, table and chairs. I think all of this has caused Mr G a lot of 
frustration and upset. Not least as the on-going claim and dispute has made it harder to get 
over the burglary. I think AXA should pay Mr G £250 compensation. If AXA has paid the 
£100 compensation previously offered to Mr G already, it will only now have to pay £150.
As Mr G accepted my provisional decision, and AXA didnt object to it, Ive no need to 
amend or change anything. My provisional findings and awards are now those of this, my 
final decision.
Putting things right
I require AXA to pay Mr G:
£36 for the replacement curtain pole, plus interest from 17 December 2020 until 
settlement is made.
£785.70 in settlement for the dining table and chairs, plus interest from 
29 November 2020 until settlement is made.
If, when Mr G replaces his table and chairs, he is charged a delivery fee, upon receipt of 
proof of this from Mr G, reimburse the charge. This should be done within 28 days of 
receipt of the proof, if it isnt paid until after 28 days, interest* will become due from the 
date Mr G paid the charge until the payment is made.
If it hasnt done so already, pay the settlement agreed for the rest of the claim. And 
regardless of whether this has been paid or not, pay Mr G a sum equivalent to interest 
on the settlement figure, applied from 1 March 2020 until the settlement was/is made.
A total of £250 compensation, so if £100 has already been paid to Mr G, only a further 
£150 will now need to be paid.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If AXA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Mr G, it should tell him how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr G a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to provide the redress set out above 
at putting things right.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman