DRN-2911153
The complaint
Mr S complains MCE Insurance Company Limited havent handled a motorcycle insurance 
claim properly.
A representative has helped Mr S bring this complaint, but for simplicity Ive just referred to 
him in this decision.
What happened
In November 2018 Mr S was unfortunately involved in an accident on his motorbike. In 
January 2019 Mr S made a claim to MCE, but as there was no reply from the other insurer, 
the claim was shut down. In July 2019, and again in June 2020, Mr S received letters from 
the other insurer which said MCE werent replying to them  and in the 2020 letter Mr S was 
threatened with court action.
Mr S complained both times, and in the first complaint received £150 which he accepted. 
This decision deals with the June 2020 issue  but Ive provided some detail of events 
before then for context.
MCE said Mr S was involved in an incident on 23 November 2018, and four days later got in 
touch with him. They said he recorded he didnt want to claim for damages to his motorbike 
but had suffered injuries. MCE said they referred Mr S to another company to potentially 
help him in claiming for his injuries in December 2018  and hadnt received contact from the 
other insurer so werent at that time handling a claim for him.
They said the next update was in June 2019 to say Mr S was no longer pursuing an injury 
claim  but then received a claim from the other insurer to ask for payment of repair and hire 
costs. In November 2019 MCE denied liability to the other insurer. Between then and 
June 2020 Mr S was asking for an update.
In June 2020 MCE said they received contact saying the other insurer was proposing a 
50 / 50 split on liability  which Mr S was asked about but didnt accept. In July 2020 the 
other insurer said theyd deal with Mr Ss claim on a without prejudice basis. MCE told the 
other insurer no costs had been provided, but theyd forward them on if there were any.
MCE accepted Mr Ss frustrations about the claim being reopened after itd been closed  
but explained if the other insurer comes forward at a later date then they have an obligation 
under the Road Traffic Act to deal with the claim. They also said, in their letter dated 
19 August 2020 that, to date, the other insurer hadnt accepted liability. And, if they didnt, 
then MCE would continue to dispute liability on Mr Ss behalf. They accepted Mr S had 
asked for numerous call backs which werent completed, and that theyd not kept him 
updated on the subject of the claim. So, they offered him £150 for this.
Mr S has said hes not accepted the £150 as a fair amount given the repeated issue, and 
because he was put at risk of being taken to court. So, he asked us to look into things  
explaining he was unhappy as well with MCE saying in their response letter theyd forward 
on costs, but then refused to do so. Mr S also let us know hed become aware in 
January 2021 the other insurer had accepted liability, something he said MCE hadnt told 
him.
Our investigator considered things, and overall, she felt £150 was a fair amount of 
compensation. She found MCE hadnt been given long to reply by the other insurer before 
they issued the letter in June 2020, MCE were only defending Mr Ss claim as he didnt want 
to claim on his policy  so they didnt do anything wrong by saying they wouldnt forward on 
costs, although she did accept the wording in their response to Mr Ss complaint was 
unhelpful. She noted Mr S had since got his costs back from the other insurer  so she was 
satisfied he wasnt out of pocket as a result of MCEs communication. She did though agree 
MCE had failed to provide Mr S with a good service  by not updating him on contact from 
the other insurer, and by not replying to his requests for a call back. But she felt the £150 
awarded by MCE in their complaint response was fair.
Mr S felt because this was the second time it was logical to receive more compensation. And 
he added that MCEs poor communication meant he was potentially on the receiving end of 
an unfair liability claim  which was ultimately settled in his favour.
Our investigator explained MCE had the right to defend the claim being made by the other 
insurer however they saw fit  and she was satisfied theyd listened to what Mr S said. She 
felt communication was at the heart of the problems in this complaint  and had MCE not 
awarded £150 then shed have done so.
Mr S said further problems had happened as a result of the letter in August 2020, and these 
hadnt been addressed.
Our investigator reminded Mr S we could only look into the issues MCE had the chance to 
investigate first  anything else would need to be a new complaint, so she couldnt consider 
those points. But Mr S overall still didnt think the £150 compensation was fair  so the 
complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss key issue is the communication from MCE  and theyve accepted that the 
communication was poor and awarded £150 compensation. So, the key question for me to 
answer in this case is whether I think thats enough. And, while I understand Mr S will be 
disappointed, I think it is.
Its common in motor insurance policies that insurers retain the right to settle the claim the 
way they see fit. Here, thats what I think MCE have done in their communication with the 
other insurer. I can see the claim has been going on for a long time, but I can also see 
theres been quite big gaps where MCE hadnt received anything from the other insurer. So, 
I cant reasonably hold them responsible for that.
In relation to the claim Mr S wasnt claiming on his insurance policy with MCE  that means 
MCEs actions were simply to defend the claim being made. I can see MCE were contacted 
by the other insurer about liability being settled in an 80 / 20 favour of the other party  and 
then later it was suggested liability should be settled on a 50 / 50 basis  both times they told 
the other insurer this was being disputed. So, I think MCE have listened to Mr Ss wishes in 
terms of how the claim should be settled.Im aware the June 2020 letter threatening court action was very unwelcome  particularly in 
view of the other insurer saying theyd been trying to speak to MCE but they werent 
replying. Given Mr Ss experience at this point, which was mirrored with MCE regularly not 
returning calls, I can see why he would have placed the blame with MCE. But I dont think 
they were given a reasonable amount of time to respond to the other insurer  so, again, I 
cant hold MCE responsible for the other insurer getting in touch with Mr S and threatening 
court action.
I can though see several occasions where Mr S has asked to be contacted by MCE and 
theyve failed to do so. I think this will have led to distress for him, given he had to repeatedly 
contact them for updates. As Ive said above, MCE acknowledged this and paid him £150  
which I do think is fair in all the circumstances. I can understand why Mr S would argue that 
this is the second time hes had to complain, and its been upheld, so logically it should be 
more. But Im looking at whats happened in this complaint only  and I do think £150 is fair.
I note Mr S has mentioned a number of issues that have happened after the date of the letter 
issued by MEC on 19 August 2020. The rules under which our service has to operate means 
financial businesses like MCE have to be given the opportunity to investigate a complaint 
before we can get involved. So, I wont comment further on any issues that happened after  
such as MCE not telling Mr S the other insurer was no longer disputing liability, which he 
found out about in January 2021.
My final decision
MCE Insurance Company Limited have already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that MCE Insurance Company Limited should pay £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021. 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman