DRN-2305277
The complaint
Mr V complains about the way BUPA Insurance Limited has underwritten his personal 
private medical insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr V applied for a personal private medical insurance company through a 
broker. In his application form and accompanying medical report, he declared a number of 
conditions to BUPA  including high blood pressure and that two MRI scans in 2016 and 
2018 had found a chronic striatocapsular lacunar infarct (which Mr V also referred to as 
silent stroke).
BUPA agreed to insure Mr V. But when it underwrote his policy and offered him insurance, it 
included 14 exclusions for pre-existing medical conditions which it wouldnt cover. These 
included disorders of the cardiovascular system; high blood pressure and lacunar infarct.
Mr V told BUPA that he had concerns about how wide the exclusion for cardiovascular 
conditions was. But he accepted the policy and told BUPA that he had no intention of 
cancelling it within the 21-day cooling off period. He later complained to BUPA about the 
breadth of the exclusion. He considered it should either be removed or that BUPA should 
offer a discount on the cost of his policy to reflect the limitation on the available cover.
BUPA disagreed. It maintained that the cardiovascular exclusion would continue to apply to 
Mr Vs policy and that it wasnt prepared to discount the price. Thats because it said that the 
premium already took into account the exclusions that had been applied to the policy.
Mr V remained unhappy with BUPAs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think BUPA had treated Mr V unfairly. He explained that he couldnt 
tell a financial business what exclusions it should apply to a policy  he could only check 
whether BUPA had treated Mr V fairly. Hed reviewed BUPAs underwriting guidance and 
was satisfied itd applied it to Mr Vs policy fairly. And he felt it was down to Mr V to seek 
alternative cover if he was unhappy with the cover BUPA offered. 
Mr V disagreed. He didnt think the investigators view was fair and reasonable. He referred 
to past decisions of my colleagues, whod taken a differing view. He argued that he didnt 
know when the silent stroke had happened  it couldve been more than 7 years before he 
took out the policy, which would mean it should no longer be treated as a pre-existing 
condition. He referred to guidance by the industry regulator which relates to consumers 
receiving fair value for financial services. And he didnt think that the price hed paid BUPA 
reflected the risk to it. He later provided us with copies of further MRI reports from a follow-
up screening hed undergone in October 2020. This detected the silent stroke but didnt 
confirm when it was likely to have happened  it simply ruled out that itd happened more 
than 2-3 months previously and that itd happened before 2018.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think BUPA has treated Mr V unfairly. Ill explain why.
As the investigator explained, it isnt my role to tell insurers how to assess risk; what 
exclusions they may or may not apply or what price to charge for offering a policyholder 
insurance cover. Those are examples of a financial business exercising its commercial 
judgement. What I can do though is to check whether BUPA exercised its discretion 
legitimately and that Mr V wasnt singled out in any way.
When BUPA offered Mr V insurance cover, it excluded 14 health issues  largely because it 
considered at least most of these were pre-existing. So Ive first considered the terms of Mr 
Vs policy to see what BUPA considers to be a pre-existing medical condition. It defines this 
term as:
Any disease, illness or injury for which in the seven years before your Effective Underwriting 
Date:
you have received medication, advice or Treatment, or
you have experienced symptoms,
Whether the condition was diagnosed or not.
Ive seen a copy of the application form Mr V completed when he applied for the policy. He 
answered yes to questions which asked whether he had heart or cardiovascular disorders 
and brain or nervous system disorders, amongst other questions. Hes told us he also sent a 
medical report with his application form which gave fuller information about his health  
including that he had high blood pressure for which he took regular medication and that two 
MRI scans of his brain in 2016 and 2018 had detected a silent stroke. Its standard 
underwriting procedure for an insurer to ask for information about a policyholders health 
before assessing whether or not its prepared to cover the risk and if so, at what price. So I 
think it was fair and reasonable for BUPA to rely on the information Mr V provided when it 
underwrote his policy. And I dont think that based on the available evidence, it was unfair for 
BUPA to conclude that Mr V had received advice about his silent stroke within the seven 
years before he took out the policy.
BUPA has sent us a copy of its underwriting guidance to show me why it applied the 
cardiovascular condition exclusion to Mr Vs policy. Im afraid that I cant share this 
information with Mr V because its commercially sensitive. However, I hope it reassures Mr V 
to know that Ive carefully checked the guidance. And Im satisfied that the same guidance 
wouldve been applied to any policyholder in the same situation as Mr V. This means I dont 
think BUPA has singled Mr V out in any way.
Its also clear that Mr V knew about the exclusions and the price of his policy within the 21-
day cooling off period and while he raised concerns about the breadth of the cardiovascular 
exclusion at this point, he made it clear that he was generally happy with the cover. It seems 
to me that if Mr V was unhappy either with the exclusion or the premium, it was open to him 
to cancel the policy within the cooling-off period and to look for alternative insurance. This 
wouldve also been the case at renewal. So in my view, Mr V indicated that he accepted the 
terms of the contract hed taken out with BUPA, whilst being fully aware of the limitation on 
cardiovascular cover.I appreciate Mr V feels that BUPA should provide him with a discount, given he has no 
cardiovascular cover. BUPA says that his premium reflects the fact that his policy doesnt 
cover a number of health conditions. Its also told us that it couldnt offer a cheaper policy. 
And Ive seen nothing in the policy terms that requires BUPA to reduce a premium if pre-
existing condition exclusions are applied. Id also add that Mr V is able to make use of other 
cover available under the policy, which isnt subject to the restrictions.
Mr Vs now undergone a further MRI scan. BUPA hasnt had sight of this information to 
decide whether or not it affects its underwriting decision. Its open to Mr V to send this 
information onto BUPA for it consider. If Mr Vs unhappy with the outcome of any further 
review by BUPA, he may be able to bring a new complaint to us about that issue alone. Ive 
also noted that Mr Vs referred to previous decisions of my colleagues. But its important I 
make clear that each complaint is decided on its own facts and based on the specific 
circumstances of each complaint. In this case, Im satisfied that BUPA hasnt treated Mr V 
unfairly.
Overall, having considered everything, I dont think BUPA has done anything wrong which it 
needs to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr v to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman