DRN-1674627
 
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the way American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) dealt with 
a request to transfer reward points and subsequently cancel the request. 
What happened
Mr H had reward points on his Amex card. He was flying on Thursday night, 15 August and 
called Amex from the airport to transfer 18,000 points to the airlines reward scheme to 
upgrade his seat. Amex said the transfer could take 48 working hours, meaning it might not 
complete until the 19 August. Mr H called the airline and Amex again but the transfer hadnt 
completed so and he couldnt upgrade. He planned to upgrade his return flight instead. 
Mr H called Amex on 16 August asking to reduce the transfer from 18,000 to 15,000 points, 
he was advised this wasnt possible. He made two calls on the morning of 17 August, 
querying why the points hadnt transferred yet and said only three upgrade seats were left 
for his return flight. 
Mr H called again on the 20 August, the points still hadnt arrived and he said he didnt need 
them. He asked to cancel the transfer. Amex agreed, advising this might take 10 working 
days. It was completed on 28 August. Mr H says he complained about losing the upgrade 
but Amex say Mr H didnt mention his travel arrangements until 22 August, when it told him a 
system outage had caused the delay. Amex said it was investigating further and would come 
back to him. 
Mr H called Amex many times over the following weeks for updates. In some calls he was 
given conflicting information which annoyed him. Amex registered a complaint on 29 August 
and Mr H continued to press saying Amex was delaying and failing to respond to him in good 
time. He said he wanted either 57,000 reward points or £800 to compensate him for the lost 
upgrade.
Mr H contacted our service on 13 September about the delay in Amex dealing with his 
complaint. He was advised Amex had up to eight weeks to respond. Mr H sent Amex a 
detailed email on 17 September setting out what he thought had happened. He said 
because of all the time hed spent sorting things out he should be given 57,000 points and 
£800 in compensation.
On 18 September Amex issued a final response letter apologising for the poor service. It 
confirmed a system outage had delayed the points transfer. It credited Mr H with 30,000 
points as compensation.  
Mr H wasnt satisfied and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into 
it. He didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. He said it wasnt clear that an upgrade on the return 
flight was still available on the evening of 19 August. If it wasnt, Amex wasnt responsible for 
any loss. He also said it wasnt clear what the cost (in points) of the upgrade was. He said by re-crediting the point Amex had put Mr H back in the position he would have 
been in and that 30,000 points was an appropriate level of compensation for the service 
failings Mr H had suffered.
Mr H disagreed. He said Amex should offer the points needed to upgrade a seat in the 
future, which he said is normally 57,000. He said because of Amexs failings he had to 
spend a lot of time sorting things out further inconveniencing him. Mr H said he would submit 
further information in respect of the availability of upgrade seats for his return flight, but 
hasnt done so.
As Mr H doesnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Having done so I do not uphold the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Before we can look into a complaint about a rewards point scheme we need to consider 
whether it is within our jurisdiction. For us to investigate the reward scheme needs to be an 
ancillary activity to the main regulated financial activity as set out in DISP Rule 2.3 of the 
Financial Conduct Authority Handbook. An ancillary activity is something providing 
necessary support to the main activity that is under our jurisdiction. Here the reward scheme 
is designed to encourage use of (the ancillary activity) the credit card account which is the 
regulated financial activity. So our service can consider Mr Hs complaint.
I can understand Mr Hs disappointment about not being able to upgrade his flight, but I 
havent seen any evidence that this was caused by Amexs error. It isnt clear what type of 
ticket was held. This affects the cost (in points) and when an upgrade can be accessed. This 
could be either somewhat before departure or only at check-in when at the airport. Mr H 
says he is a frequent traveller and it seems likely hed want to upgrade in the future. If hed 
requested the points be transferred a few days in advance of the flight the risk of 
disappointment would have been reduced.
I havent seen evidence of when Mr H made his return trip or when upgrade seats for this 
flight became unavailable. In his call to Amex on Saturday morning Mr H says only three 
upgrade seats were available. This was still more than two days before the maximum 
timeframe for the points transfer advised by Amex would be exceeded. Mr H says had the 
transfer of points been completed by Tuesday he could have upgraded, but hasnt provided 
evidence of that.
Mr H says due to Amexs poor service he had to spend a lot of time sorting the issue. He 
made many calls which were escalated to managers so involving lots of different staff.  Mr H 
was clearly annoyed, thinking Amex was trying to blame the airline and he felt the need to 
keep on top of the situation. But I dont think he gave Amex a reasonable chance to reply 
before contacting it again complaining about the lack of a response. I think this served to 
delay and confuse rather than to assist matters. 
Mr H doesnt have a financial loss as he didnt pay the extra cost to upgrade the seat 
himself. But an upgrade might not have been possible anyway and his travel was otherwise 
unaffected. Amex accepts there were service failings and re-credited the points with another 
30,000 as an apology. 
Amex says 30,000 points are worth around £150 and can be spent as Mr H choses. I think 
this is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation for the service issues he has experienced so I wont be asking Amex to do anymore than this. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27July2020.
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman