DRN-1751172
The complaint
Ms M says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out online in 2009. The policy was taken out at the 
same time as Ms M applied for a credit card. It gave her unemployment protection. And it 
included some life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms M disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What I've decided - and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ms M says she wasnt told about the PPI at the time of the sale. Barclays says Ms M would 
have been given the choice of whether to take out PPI or not. It has provided a screenshot 
showing how the PPI was presented to Ms M. The screen gave her the options to select 
different types of PPI cover (either accident, sickness, unemployment and life; accident, 
sickness and life; or unemployment and life) or to decline PPI. All options were set out 
clearly. Barclays has also provided Ms Ms application report which shows she selected 
option three - unemployment and life cover. 
So overall I think Barclays made it clear to Ms M that PPI was optional, and she chose to 
take it. I can understand she might not remember this give how long ago the sale was.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Ms M, so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
her. It was up to her to decide, given the other ways she had to make her repayments if she 
wasnt working.
Its possible Barclays didnt give Ms M all the information about the PPI that she needed 
before she made her decision. But it seems Ms M chose to take out the policy and so 
appears to have wanted this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. If Ms M was 
made redundant and received a payment from her employer the PPI would have paid out in 
addition this, allowing her to protect any lump sum payment and giving increased financial 
stability at an already difficult time. I note Ms M had an ongoing medical condition at the time 
of the sale, but she didnt select accident and sickness cover - possibly for that reason - so 
this doesnt impact my analysis of the sale. 
On balance, given her circumstances and the policy terms, I think it unlikely Ms M wouldve 
made a different decision if better information had been provided. This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms M. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms M because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms M about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Ms M, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
If the PPI is still active on Ms Ms credit card account, as it was when she brought her 
complaint, she should contact the bank if she wishes to cancel it.
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold this complaint. The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays 
Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms M.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Ms M any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman