DRN-3852986
The complaint
Mr W complains that Lendable Ltd irresponsibly agreed a loan for him.
What happened
Lendable agreed a loan of £2,630 for Mr W in May 2022, £130 of which was a loan fee. The 
total amount owed was £3,743 to be repaid at £104 a month over 36 months (all figures 
rounded).  I understand that Mr W met his first three repayments for his loan but hasnt made 
a payment since. 
Mr W said that he had an email from a credit reference agency (CRA) saying he was eligible 
for a loan and it connected him to Lendables website as a pre-approved customer. He said 
he didnt fill in any of his details on the website and agreed to the loan although the 
repayments were out of his budget. Mr W said that he had been out of work for many years 
due to his health and was in receipt of state benefits. He struggled to repay the loan and has 
borrowed further. 
Lendable didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said that all credit checks were carried out as 
normal during the application process and Mr W fulfilled all its necessary criteria to proceed 
with the loan at the time. Lendable said it verified Mr Ws income using an online tool and 
didnt find anything of concern in the credit file information it considered. 
Mr W referred his complaint to us. He said that in order to resolve his complaint he would 
like to have the loan written off. He also said that he would like Lendable to write of the 
balance of a credit card account he holds with it. We asked Mr W about this account but he 
didnt provide any further information or confirm that he was making a complaint about it. We 
asked Lendable about this and it confirmed that Mr W held a credit card account with it but 
that he hadnt made a complaint about it. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint about his loan and didnt recommended that it 
be upheld. They found that there wasnt anything in the information Lendable had gathered 
that ought to have prompted it to look into Mr Ws circumstances further before lending to 
him. 
Mr W didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for the complaint to come to an 
ombudsman to review and resolve and its come to me. For clarity, my decision deals solely 
with Mr Ws complaint about his loan. If he wishes to raise a complaint about his credit card 
he will need to take this up with Lendable in the first instance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending (set out in 
its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which lenders, such as Lendable, need to abide by. 
Lendable will be aware of these, and our approach to this type of lending is set out on our 
website, so I wont refer to the regulations in detail here but will summarise them. 
Before entering into a credit agreement, Lendable needed to check that Mr W could afford to 
meet his repayments out of his usual means for the term of the loan, without having to 
borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse consequences. 
The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit (the amount borrowed, for 
example) and to Mr Ws circumstances. Once the agreement was in place Lendable needed 
to treat Mr W with forbearance and due consideration if he had problems meeting his  
repayments. 
Lendable said that Mr W had been referred to them via a CRA. Hed said he was in full time 
employment with an income of £2,560. Lendable used a CRA tool which checked the 
amount being deposited into Mr Ws bank account over several months for consistency. 
Lendable explained that if a consistent level of income was received each month, then the 
check returned an average monthly income amount, in this case the check returned a figure 
of £2,027 a month. Lendable said it didnt ask Mr W for any supporting documentation such 
as bank statements or payslips because it said the figure had been consistent over several 
months. 
Mr W told us that he had six revolving credit accounts, which were all fully utilised, so he 
feels that Lendable didnt see a copy of his credit file at the time. However, Lendable has 
provided a copy of the credit file information it relied on, which is timestamped, and Ive 
reviewed this. The credit file information shows that Mr W had just over £2,200 of existing 
debt. He had two defaulted accounts from 2018 amounting to about £820, both of which 
were now with debt collection agencies. Another account was recorded as being in an 
arrangement to pay with a balance of about £1,200 having been in sustained arrears in mid-
2021. Mr W also had three revolving credit accounts. I can see that two of these had been at 
their limits (£450 and £200) earlier in the year but at the time of the credit check all three had 
zero balances.  
Altogether, I dont think there was anything in the information Lendable had about Mr Ws 
circumstances that should have led it to decline to lend to him or prompted it to complete 
further checks before doing so. While Mr W had one account which was recorded as 
delinquent in the previous 12 months he was in an arrangement to repay this. Lendable told 
us that the purpose of the loan was for debt consolidation, which suggests to me that Mr W 
might have intended to settle some of his outstanding balances. And the repayments werent 
so large relative to his means that there was an obvious risk to him of not being able to meet 
his repayments without difficulty. Ive concluded that the checks Lendable carried out on this 
occasion were reasonable and proportionate, and it didnt do anything wrong by lending to 
Mr W on the basis of the information it had. 
Mr W told us that he was in receipt of state benefits and provided information from his 
universal credit account which shows he was receiving almost £1,000 a month. Mr W also 
told us he was in receipt of Personal Independence payments. Mr W shared that he has long 
term health problems and that taking out this loan has worsened his conditions and his 
finances. Hes now up to his limit on his credit cards and has been getting further into debt to 
make ends meet. 
I am very sorry to hear of Mr Ws health and money difficulties. I have carefully considered 
everything hes shared with us but Im afraid I am not going to be able to provide the 
resolution he was hoping for. I havent seen anything in the available information which 
suggests to me that Lendable knew, or should have known, about his health conditions 
before agreeing to lend to him. And, even if I found that Lendable should have looked into 
Mr Ws circumstances in more detail before lending to him, I cant say that further checks would have led it to decline the loan. While I can accept that Mr Ws actual income was 
potentially less than the figure Lendable relied on, I havent seen enough to suggest that this 
means the loan repayments would be unaffordable or unsustainable for him. So I cant find 
in this case that Lendable was irresponsible to have lent to him.
In summary, I appreciate that this will be disappointing news for Mr W but, having 
considered everything carefully, I have concluded that Lendable wasnt irresponsible when it 
lent to him on this occasion. And so I am not upholding his complaint. I would remind 
Lendable of its obligation to treat Mr W fairly, with forbearance and due consideration 
regarding the outstanding balance on his account.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am not upholding Mr Ws complaint about Lendable Ltd and 
dont require it to pay him compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman