DRN-3269346
Complaint
Mr G has complained about a loan TM Advances Limited (TM Advances) provided to him. 
He says TM Advances irresponsibly lent him this loan.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr G and TM Advances had told us. And she thought 
that TM Advances hadnt lent irresponsibly. So she didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. Mr G 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Gs complaint.
TM Advances needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is TM Advances needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr G could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
TM Advances provided Mr G with a loan for £3,000 in March 2016. It had an APR of 151.6% 
and was to due be repaid in 36 instalments of £255.83, which meant the total amount to be 
repaid was a truly eye-watering £9,209.88. TM Advances says it agreed to Mr Gs 
application after he provided details of his monthly income and expenditure. It says it cross-
checked this against information on a credit search it carried out on Mr G. The information 
Mr G provided about his income and expenditure showed hed be able to comfortably make 
the repayments he was committing to.                  
TM Advances says, in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. On the other hand,  
Mr G has said he was in financial difficulty and shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr G and TM Advances have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that this was Mr Gs first loan with TM Advances. The 
information provided does suggest Mr G was asked to provide details of his income and 
expenditure and TM Advances didnt just rely on what it was told as it carried out credit 
checks. Furthermore, while Im aware that Mr G had been in an Individual Voluntary 
Arrangement (IVA), hed been discharged from it some months previously. So I dont agree 
that Mr Gs previous IVA was, in itself, a reason not to lend.
I accept that Mr Gs actual circumstances may not have been accurately reflected in the 
information gathered. And given the amount of the repayments as well as the term of the 
loan, I might have expected TM Advances to have done more to verify Mr Gs expenditure 
before establishing that this loan was affordable. 
But, in any event, Ive looked at the information contained in the copies of the bank 
statements Mr G has provided. And when his monthly expenditure is deducted from his 
income, I dont think it can be reasonably concluded that there was no reasonable prospect 
of Mr G being able to make the payments to this loan without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. On the contrary it appears as though Mr G had sufficient funds to be able to make 
his payments.
Id also add that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances a 
lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that TM Advances did anything 
wrong in deciding to lend to Mr G. It looks to be the case that while it was an egregiously 
high total amount Mr G had to pay, relative to the amount he borrowed, reasonable and 
proportionate checks wont have shown the monthly loan repayment of around £255 to be 
unaffordable. 
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr G. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman