DRN-3244369
The complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Mr B says AXA France IARD mis-sold him PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Bs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information him.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
whime appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think AXA France made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out. I say this because Mr B did not take out PPI at the time that he applied for 
the store card in March 2002. It was in September 2003 that Mr B was sold the policy 
over the phone. As the store card was already active at that point, Mr B cannot have 
thought that the policy was a condition of having the card.
AXA France didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B, so it didnt have to check that the PPI 
was right or suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr B enough clear and timely 
information so he could decide for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information AXA France gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr B. Although Mr B says he 
had a medical condition some time before the policy was taken out, I dont think better 
information about the existing medical condition exclusion would have caused him to 
change him mind about taking out the policy. I say this because Mr B has told us that he 
had a cracked sternum in 2000, causing him to have a month off work, but he hasnt said 
that it wasnt successfully treated at the time such that it was still an issue at the time of 
the sale in 2003. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr B would have 
declined the cover had AXA France done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr Bs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So I think he would have still 
thought he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr B would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely he thought he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given him circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant AXA France should have disclosed the poor value and explained 
the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of 
making a claim.
But Mr Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Bs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means AXA France doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022. Carole Clark
Ombudsman