DRN-1611876
The complaint
Mr H complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (Legal & General) offer of 
compensation under the pension review should be recalculated.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Legal & General needs to make a new offer and Ill explain 
why:
Legal & General carried out a review of Mr Hs pension sale and made an offer in line 
with the regulators guidance at the time. It sent Mr H reminders/chasers as it was 
required to do and it set out its position if he didnt respond. Mr H didnt respond to 
the outcome of his review or the chaser letters.
Legal & General explained in its letters in 2001 that if Mr H didnt respond it wouldnt 
accept any responsibility for further loss and it would only settle his claim in 
accordance with the original offer. Mr H now refers to more recent updates to the 
pension review guidance but I dont agree that they replace the review that already 
had been carried out at the time.
Mr H argues that the guidance in the FCAs publication FG17/9 says that his offer 
should be recalculated because he has complained after the cut-off point, 3 August 
2016. And in any event if the review process is used as an argument his case was 
considered before this date  it wasnt settled in full and final settlement as he didnt 
accept the offer.
Whilst Mr H has referred to the regulators guidance which I have taken into account, 
ultimately my role is to decide what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. And Legal & General complied with the pension review guidelines as 
was required of it at the time. The only reason this wasnt settled in full and final 
settlement then, was because Mr H stopped responding to its letters following the 
review. Mr H had a chance to challenge the offer then but chose not to and didnt 
engage further. The review process was designed to be a one-off process and not to 
be revisited at a later date. 
Had Mr H not responded at all on receipt of the review invites (he replied to ask for 
the review originally) Legal & General wouldnt be required to do a new review now. 
So having received an offer after Legal & General had followed all that was required 
of it under the review, I think it would be unfair and unreasonable to require Legal & 
General to do a further review.
The guidance that Mr H refers to shouldnt be considered in isolation but in any 
event, I dont agree with Mr Hs view that it says that his situation should be re-
reviewed under the new guidance. Points 7,8 and 9 that he refers to are under a title 
Assumptions for use in redress calculation from 3 August 2016 however Mr R had 
already had a redress calculation carried out for him in 2001.
Point 8 refers to complaints received after 3 August 2016 but Mr R had already had a 
review carried out and had this aspect considered then. To complain now about a 
mis-sale hed likely fall foul of time-limitations as he was already aware of the 
pension mis-sale in 2001 although I note Legal & General has consented in any 
event to us considering this complaint. Its my view that this refers to situations where 
a customer hasnt already had their mis-sale considered under the pension review.
Under the same point 8, it also refers to any complaint which hasnt been settled in 
full and final settlement which was received before 3 August 2016 which Mr H argues 
his could fall under. But again I think this relates to cases that havent already been 
part of the pension review process. Had the result of Mr Hs review in 2001 been that 
he had suffered no loss for example, Legal & General wouldnt be required to re-
review the sale using the new guidance.
And point 9 says:
This guidance should also be used to determine appropriate redress where a 
respondent upholds a complaint received after 3 August 2016 about a pension 
transfer between 29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994 in circumstances where either: 
9.1.the firm did not review the relevant pension transaction in accordance with the 
regulatory standards or requirements applicable for the review of the transaction at 
the time
9.2.the particular circumstances of the case were not addressed by those standards
So the fact this had already been reviewed as part of the pension review process is 
specifically mentioned as a reason to exclude a complaint from this guidance. 
So for all of these reasons I dont think Legal & General is required to re-review Mr Hs 
situation. That said I can understand Mr Hs frustration as to the advice he was given and the 
loss that this has caused him. But I dont think there is a fair and reasonable argument to say 
that his case hasnt been already reviewed and to treat his situation differently to those who 
were part of the pension review process then.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint against Legal and 
General Assurance Society Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020. 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman