DRN-4318791
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P, together with other family members, are business partners in P. They 
complain on behalf of their partnership that Lloyds Bank Plc wrongly disclosed information 
about their business finances to one of their employees, who I will call Ms E. They also 
complain that Lloyds delayed processing cheques they had issued.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P told us:
Ms E was a senior employee in a business they owned. At the beginning of 2019 she 
was the sole signatory on an account used for the business general running 
expenses. At their accountants suggestion, they decided to open a new account for 
that purpose. Their intention was that Ms E would be able to continue paying the 
business expenses as before, but Mr and Mrs P would also have access to the 
account.
They opened a new account (which I will call the additional account) with Lloyds in 
late 2019. Initially they were the only two signatories on the additional account. They 
then asked Lloyds to add Ms E as a signatory to that account only.
They had an existing, longstanding account with Lloyds (which I will call the main 
account), and they did not intend to give Ms E access to that existing account.
In 2021 they sold their business. Their agreement with the seller included a 
confidentiality clause, and they did not expect that Ms E would ever find out how 
much they had received from the sale.
Shortly after the sale, they had a meeting with Ms E  and during that meeting it 
became clear that she knew the sale price. Her position was that she should be 
entitled to a considerable sum of money because, in her view, she had built the 
business single handedly. She felt that Mr and Mrs P were receiving life changing 
amounts of money as a result of her own hard work.
Ms E eventually explained that the reason she knew the sale price was that shed 
had access to their main account through Lloyds Internet Banking. They were 
shocked to discover that, and took steps to remove Ms Es access to all of their 
accounts.
Shortly after meeting Ms E, Mr P phoned his local Lloyds branch to ask if there were 
any limits on transferring sums of money to other partners. The person he spoke to 
said they didnt know the limits on electronic transfers but knew that there were no 
limits on cheques. No further information was provided.
Mr P made out three cheques to other partners, drawn on the main account, then 
went on holiday for four weeks. While he was away Lloyds returned all three cheques 
and made a charge against the main account.
Lloyds told us:
In November 2019 Mr and Mrs P instructed Lloyds to add Ms E as a full power 
signatory to the additional account only. The same form could have been used to 
add Ms E as a full power signatory to all of the partnerships accounts, but they 
checked a box to confirm they wish[ed] the change to apply only to the sort code 
and account number listed above (which was the additional account).
The form explained that if you apply for internet or telephone banking these signing 
instructions may no longer apply. For example, if you set a restriction of any two to 
sign and you apply for internet banking, any one of the authorised users for internet 
banking will be able to carry out transactions online and the any two restriction will 
not be applied.
In February 2020 Ms E made an application for internet banking. That form was 
signed by Ms E only, and not by Mr or Mrs P (or by any of the other partners in their 
partnership. Ms E signed the application form to confirm she understood she would 
have online access to all the business/organisations accounts opened now or in the 
future and that any signing instructions set up on the account mandate will not apply 
to this online service.
It correctly processed Ms Es application for online banking (which she was able to 
make because she was a full power signatory to the additional account). That meant 
Ms E had full online access to both the main and the supplementary account.
In respect of the cheques, it did not do anything wrong. The cheques were out of 
character for the partnership, and it considers it was right not to pay them when it 
was unable to contact Mr P.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but he did not uphold it. He said Lloyds
had correctly processed Ms Es application for online banking, and he thought it had treated
the partnership fairly in respect of the cheques.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 23 August 2023. I said:
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs P have general concerns about Lloyds security 
measures, but I have only considered the individual complaint they have made. I am 
an ombudsman, not a regulator, and it is not appropriate for me to make general 
comments on the way Lloyds chooses to manage security.
Ms Es access to the main business account
I think the problem here happened in 2019 (when Ms E became a full power 
signatory) rather than in 2020 (when she applied for online banking).
I accept that Lloyds handled Ms Es online banking application in accordance with its 
normal procedures. By February 2020 she was a full power signatory to the 
partnerships additional account, and that meant she was able to instruct Lloyds to 
give her online access to the partnerships main account. But it is clear from Mr and 
Mrs Ps evidence that they only wanted Ms E to have access to the additional account. I think that if Mr and Mrs P had realised the impact of making Ms E a full 
power signatory to the additional account, they would not have signed the November 
2019 form. So, I need to consider what happened in November 2019.
I have not been able to establish exactly how Mr and Mrs P came to fill in the form 
that made Ms E a full power signatory to the additional account. They accept that 
they signed the form, but they dont have a clear recollection of doing so. They 
believe the form was provided to them by Lloyds, and they note that much of it  
including the account number it was to relate to  was pre-populated by the bank.
Having reviewed all the evidence available to me, I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs P 
did not realise that in signing the November 2019 form they were enabling Ms E to 
give herself access to their main account. The form gave Ms E full power signatory 
rights to the additional account only. I acknowledge that the form went on to explain 
that existing signing instructions would not apply if internet banking was applied for at 
a later date, but I dont think Lloyds made clear to Mr and Mrs P that that was true of 
all the business accounts and not just the additional account.
In other words, I dont think Lloyds made sufficiently clear to Mr and Mrs P that if they 
gave Ms E full power signatory rights to the additional account, she would then be 
able to use internet banking to give herself full access to the main account.
The cheques
I am sorry to further disappoint Mr and Mrs P, but I agree with our investigator about 
the cheques.
Mr and Mrs P havent alleged that Lloyds told them anything that was untrue, only 
that it didnt tell them that it might take additional security measures and call them 
before allowing the cheques to go through. But even if Mr P had asked Lloyds if it 
was possible the payments could be delayed, I still wouldnt have expected Lloyds to 
give any of its customers a detailed explanation of all of the anti-fraud measures it 
takes. If that information were to get into the public domain it would be very useful to 
those seeking to do harm to both Lloyds and its customers.
The cheque payments represented funds due to other partners following the sale of 
the partnerships business, and I think its unarguable that the payments were very 
unusual. Mr and Mrs P were abroad, Lloyds couldnt get in touch with them, and as a 
precautionary measure it declined to process very large cheques. I appreciate that in 
fact the cheques were legitimate, but I dont think it would be right for me to criticise 
Lloyds for its caution.
I know Mr and Mrs P objected to Lloyds description of the situation as unfortunate, 
but I think that description was fair. Overall, I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong 
with respect to the cheques.
I went on to explain why I thought a fair and reasonable resolution to the complaint would be 
for Lloyds to pay the partnership £500.
Mr and Mrs P accepted my overall conclusions, but they did not agree with every point I 
made. Mr P explained:
On the issue of the cheques, I had informed the bank of my intention to transfer 
large sums to the partners. I asked for their advice on the most practical means and 
was informed that there was no limit on the amounts if I were to use cheques.Furthermore, Lloyds did have details of my mobile telephone number and could have 
contacted me by that means. I did point this out to them after they stopped the 
cheques but initially they denied that they had this information. I then sent them 
documentation, which I had previously received from them, containing the mobile 
number. They did not comment on this correction.
Lloyds did not accept my overall conclusions. It said:
In response to the Ombudsmans findings, I have said in my submission, and the 
Ombudsman has agreed, that the forms were completed correctly, it is the customer 
who has signed the mandate and not questioned the wording of the mandate they 
have signed which has led to the issues.
I appreciate that sight of both accounts has caused the customers distress however if 
they were adamant the party should never have access to one account, they should 
have double checked with the Bank before proceeding.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as I did in my provisional decision, for 
the same reasons. I now confirm those provisional conclusions as final.
I accept Lloyds point that Mr and Mrs P signed the mandate form that made Ms E a full 
power signatory to their additional account. But I still dont think Lloyds did enough to make 
clear that a full power signatory to any of Ps accounts could then give themselves internet 
access to all of those accounts. The forms explanation about signing rules was in relatively 
small print, but in any event the example given was that two to sign rules would no longer 
apply. The mandate form did not explicitly say that a person who had no rights at all to sign 
on a particular account would be able to use internet banking to give themselves rights to 
access that account. I dont think it matters whether that point was clear on the internet 
banking form, because Mr and Mrs P did not sign (or see) the form Ms E completed in 
February 2020. 
In respect of the cheques, I think Mr P is right to say that Lloyds could have done more to 
get in touch with him. But I still dont feel able to criticise the bank for its caution, given how 
unusual the payments were. 
Putting things right
Where I think a bank has made an error, my aim in awarding compensation is usually to put 
the complainants in the position they would be in if the error had not occurred. Where the 
bank has caused financial loss, that is relatively easy  I can simply order the bank to pay 
financial compensation. But here, there is nothing I or the bank can do to that would change 
Ms Es knowledge of the partners finances.
In a case like this one, where there has been no financial loss but the banks mistake has 
affected the complainants emotionally, it is open to me to make an award for distress. 
Further information on our approach to non-financial loss is available on our website at 
https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/expect/compensation-for-distress-or-
inconvenience .I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs P did suffer distress. Mr P has explained that he and his wife 
had arranged our holiday [taken shortly after they discovered the issue] as an opportunity to 
relax and unwind after a lengthy and intense period involved in the complex aspects of the 
sale of the business. However [as a result of Lloyds errors] we were unable to avoid 
constantly reviewing matters.
Taking into account our guidance, and applying my own judgment, I consider that a payment 
of £500 is fair here. In my view, that amount fairly reflects the considerable distress Mr and 
Mrs P suffered when they discovered Ms E knew the amount they had received when they 
sold their business, despite the steps they had taken to keep their financial information 
private.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Lloyds Bank Plc to pay £500 to P to 
compensate the partners for the distress they suffered as a result of Ms Es access to Ps 
main account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman