DRN-3455114
The complaint
Mrs Z complains she was the victim of an investment scam and that HSBC UK Bank Plc 
didnt do enough to recover her money.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mrs Z was contacted by an investment broker representing a company Ill refer to as M. After 
several conversations with the broker, Mrs Z agreed to invest £250. She was then contacted 
by an account manager who told her she needed to invest at least £10,000 to be eligible for 
a professional account which would enable her to carry out life changing cryptocurrency 
investments. She was also given an online trading account.
Mrs Z proceeded to authorise eighteen transactions from her HSBC Visa debit card, dating 
between 11 January 2021 and 16 February 2021 totalling £70,800. The money was 
transferred to a cryptocurrency exchange company before being loaded onto an online 
wallet and Mrs Z said the broker had used persuasive tactics to hurry her and to influence 
her. She said she was pushed to invest additional funds to the point she took out two loans 
to finance her investments.
When the broker started to charge unexpected commission (throughout January and 
February, she was charged commission totalling £41,943.7) and she was unable to withdraw 
funds from her account, Mrs Z realised shed fallen victim to a scam. She contacted HSBC to 
ask it for help to retrieve her funds. She subsequently complained about the time it had 
taken for HSBC to investigate her claim, stating the she was spending £700 per month on 
repaying the loans shed taken out.
HSBC said the transactions were authorised by Mrs Z and that as they were made using her 
debit card, there were no rights under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. Regarding a 
possible chargeback request, it said that, based on the information shed provided, Mrs Z 
had been allowed to make a withdrawal and there were no documents to confirm any other 
withdrawal requests had been made and rejected by the merchant. So, it concluded there 
were no chargeback rights available to Mrs Z. 
HSBC also said it wasnt in a position to review the charges applied and the prices used for 
buying and selling, stating she had the option of taking her case to the Republic of Cyprus 
Financial Ombudsman. Finally, it accepted there had been delays in its investigation of Mrs 
Zs complaint and offered £200 compensation for the delay.
Mrs Z wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service. She provided evidence that M 
was operating a scam and argued it shouldve done more to prevent her from financial harm. 
She explained she wasnt told shed be charged commission and when she started losing 
money and decided to close the account, her account manager pushed her to put more 
funds into her account by giving her small rebates of fees. She ended up taking out two 
loans of £25,000 each hoping that if she added more money, she would get back some of 
what shed already lost. 
Mrs Z explained it became obvious that the trading platform was a complete scam when all 
her trades were closed unexpectedly. She also explained the impact on her mental and 
physical health and the fact shed been unable to buy a house.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He explained that, in line with 
the Payment Services Regulations, the starting point was that Mrs Z was liable for the 
payments she'd authorised. He further explained HSBC was expected to have measures in 
place to detect unusual activity, but he didnt think the payments were unusual. He added 
that even if HSBC had spoken to Mrs Z, he didnt think it wouldve made any difference as M 
was a Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission (CySEC) regulated business. He found 
M was still in operation and was regulated by CySEC when the payments were made. He 
also considered other third-party evidence including, the negative press and reviews which 
Mrs Z provided and didnt accept there was any evidence of fraud.
Our investigator concluded that investing in cryptocurrency is not illegal, Mrs Z had paid a 
legitimate merchant and HSBC hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably by not intervening to 
ask questions about the transactions. 
Mrs Z wasnt satisfied and has asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Shes argued the FCA suspended Ms operations from 9 April 2021 and therefore there was 
sufficient information in March about Ms illegal practices and the FCA had issued similar 
suspensions for four other Cyprus-based investment firms the previous year. Shes 
reiterated this was her first time investing and trading in stocks and commodities and her 
personal circumstances meant she was very vulnerable. She believes M emptied her 
account upon being notified it was being investigated by the FCA. 
She maintains HSBC did nothing to investigate her claim between March and
November and failed to raise a chargeback request for the transactions she made to M.
Shes argued that in April 2021, the FCA had required M to refund money owed to its UK 
customers and chargebacks could have been filed at that point.
She wants HSBC to refund all the money she paid to M, the monthly interest payments for 
the two personal loans she took out and the £18,800 she was entitled to for the early 
redemption of her mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that the payments were authorised by Mrs Z. This is because they were 
made by her using the legitimate security credentials provided to her by HSBC. Mrs Z 
believes shes entitled to a refund because, even though she authorised the payments, she 
was the victim of a scam and HSBC should have either done more to stop that happening or 
to help her get the money back.
Was there a scam?
Banks have various and long-standing obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act 
in their customers best interests. But these are predicated on there having been a fraud or 
scam. So, my first consideration must be whether M was operating a scam as Mrs Z alleges.Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered this, but Im not persuaded that at the relevant time M was 
operating a scam. I say this because it was regulated by the CySEC. The services being 
offered may have been high risk and its likely there were some questionable sales and 
marketing techniques, but that doesnt in itself mean M was operating a scam. 
I note Mrs Zs argument that from April 2021 the FCA placed restrictions on M from 
conducting any regulated activities in respect of any client resident in the UK, but at the time 
she authorised the payments, there were no warnings on either the FCA or the IOSCO 
websites, and certainly none within a month of any of the transactions. The actions of the 
FCA dont conclusively show that M was operating a scam, just that the FCA withdrew its 
permission to offer its services to customers in the UK.
Consequently, Im not satisfied Mrs Z has shown she was the victim of a scam and so HSBC 
was under no obligation to intervene when she made the payments. 
Chargeback
Its right that s75 doesnt apply to debit card transactions and that in this case, chargeback 
would be relevant. In the circumstances here, chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa 
whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it 
cannot be resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the 
rules of the scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. 
Our role in such cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, 
but to determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. HSBC) acted fairly and reasonably 
when presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mrs 
Z).
HSBC is bound by the card scheme operators rules. HSBC has said it didnt raise a 
chargeback because there was no valid basis upon which to make a chargeback request. As 
this was an investment trading dispute, the only applicable misrepresentation option for 
HSBC would have been if Mrs Z was unable to withdraw available funds from the trading 
platform. But its not just enough to be unable to withdraw available funds, Mrs Z would have 
needed to have provided dated evidence that she had funds available in her trading account 
on the day she requested them. I dont see that she has provided this evidence and 
therefore, I dont think there was a reasonable chance of a chargeback succeeding, so 
HSBC not raising a request is a reasonable exercise of its discretion.
Overall, Im sorry to hear Mrs Z lost such a significant amount of money. But for the reasons 
Ive explained I dont think HSBC is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman