DRN-2046786
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didn't actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep 
things simple.
Mr H says AXA mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
Mr H opened a store card account in a shop in 2003. At the same time, he took out a PPI 
policy. The policy was designed to pay part of the outstanding monthly balance on Mr Hs 
store card each month if hed been unable to work because of injury or sickness, or if he lost 
his job.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he said 
that AXA hadnt provided enough evidence to show it gave Mr H a choice about buying the 
PPI.
AXA disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator, and for much the 
same reasons. 
Mr H has told us that he cant remember seeing anything about PPI on the application form 
for the store card. Hes explained that he only took the card out so he could benefit from a 
discount. He says that as far as hes aware, the policy was added without his knowledge or 
consent.
AXA needed to make it clear to Mr H that he had a choice about whether or not to take the 
PPI. We asked AXA to provide us with a full copy of Mr Hs credit agreement for the store 
card. But the copy its provided is incomplete. And it makes no mention of PPI.
I acknowledge that AXA says Mr H would have been asked to opt for PPI on the store card 
agreement. It also says documentation confirming the sale of a PPI policy would have been 
sent to Mr H, with full details of the insurance. It says that if Mr H hadnt agreed to take out 
the policy, he could have cancelled after he received those documents. 
But based on the evidence provided, I cant safely conclude that it was made clear to Mr H 
that he had a choice about taking out the PPI in the first place. And that being the case, 
I dont accept that the fact that he didnt cancel the PPI after receiving the policy documents 
shows that he wanted the cover. 
So Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. AXA should put things right by doing as Ive set out 
below.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mr H in the position he'd be in now if he hadn't taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mr H would have owed when he closed his store 
card account if the policy hadn't been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mr H owed when he closed 
his account and what he would have owed if he hadn't had PPI.
If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr H would have 
owed when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
C. If  when AXA works out what Mr H would have owed each month without PPI  
Mr H paid more than enough to clear his balance, AXA should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr H paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mr H would have owed AXA something on his credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year. 
D. AXA should tell Mr H what its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mr H that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue and Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it's taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA France IARD to put things right by 
doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman