DRN-3690553
The complaint
Ms R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) prematurely converted her 
student account to a standard current account, which meant she incurred interest on her 
overdraft facility when she shouldnt have done.
What happened
Ms R held a student account with NatWest, with an interest-free overdraft facility that she 
utilised. 
NatWest says it converted Ms Rs account to a standard current account in December 2018, 
understanding that Ms R had graduated and completed her studies in 2017. The change in 
account type meant interest was now applied to the overdraft.
Ms R says that NatWest made this change prematurely. She says she actually graduated in 
the summer of 2018, and that she notified the bank of this prior to her graduation when the 
bank first made her aware that it intended to convert her account. She says the banks error 
has caused her to incur an additional £1500 in interest on the overdrawn balance of her 
account.
As NatWest didnt uphold Ms Rs complaint, she contacted us and one of our investigators 
looked into the matter. She forwarded confirmation of Ms Rs graduation in summer 2018 to 
the bank, and queried its standard practice for the conversion of student accounts. This 
prompted NatWest to reconsider its position. It said:
After a student account holder graduated, their account would be converted to a 
graduate account. This account also had an interest-free overdraft facility.
A graduate account would subsequently be converted to a standard current account 
after two years, with any overdraft facility then ceasing to be interest-free.
As it could now see that Ms R had graduated in 2018, it accepted that she shouldnt 
have incurred any interest on her overdraft for the two-year period thereafter. So it 
offered to refund the interest applied between December 2018 and December 2020. 
It calculated this to be just under £550.
It said that the refund would be applied to the account balance, which would still be in 
debit. And it said that on acceptance of the offer, it would reduce Ms Rs overdraft 
limit by £500.
Our investigator thought NatWests offer was a fair way of putting things right. Ms R ought to 
have had an interest-free overdraft for two years after her graduation, and the banks 
proposal would put her in the position shed be in if she had. In fact, it was a slight 
improvement  as it meant shed actually not been charged interest on her overdraft 
between her graduation in July 2018 and December 2020. 
Ms R didnt accept our investigators view. She said that shed made a number of attempts to 
resolve matters with NatWest since 2017  including a previous complaint in addition to this 
one  and queried why the bank hadnt realised its error sooner. And she didnt think the 
amount of the refund covered the full amount of additional interest shed incurred as a result 
of the issue. 
So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Had things gone as they should have, Ms R would have had an interest-free overdraft facility 
for a further two years after she graduated. Thats because her student account ought then 
to have been converted to a graduate account, which also benefitted from an interest-free 
overdraft for up to two years. She graduated in July 2018, so two years from then is July 
2020. 
NatWests offer in response to this complaint puts Ms R in a slightly better position in that, in 
that it has offered to refund any interest applied to her overdraft up to December 2020. I 
think that is as much as I could reasonably require NatWest to do.
Ms R says that the amount of the refund that NatWest has quoted  of around £550  
doesnt cover the full amount of interest that she incurred between December 2018 and July 
2022 (which totals around £1500). But the refund is only for interest up to December 2020, 
as thats when the two-year interest-free period available under the graduate account 
wouldve expired. From that point on, Ms R would always have had to pay interest on her 
overdraft balance in line with the banks terms and conditions. So theres no basis on which I 
could fairly require NatWest to refund interest charged from December 2020 onwards.
Ms R also thinks NatWest should compensate her for its failure to deal with the matter 
earlier, as she says she has queried this with the bank on a number of previous occasions  
including by way of complaint  since 2018. But NatWest says it has no record of any earlier 
contact and Ms R hasnt provided anything to substantiate her recollections either, despite 
the banks invitation for her to do so this when it investigated this complaint. As Ive not seen 
that Ms R made NatWest aware of her actual graduation date until she raised this complaint, 
I dont think the bank needs to pay any additional compensation on top of the interest refund.
Lastly, I note NatWests comments to the effect that if Ms R accepts the offer, the refund 
amount will only be applied to the account balance (rather than paid separately to Ms R) and 
that it will immediately reduce Ms Rs overlimit limit by £500. As it is a refund of interest 
charged to the account, it is right that this is simply an adjustment to the account balance 
rather than a separate payment to Ms R. However, I dont think there is any basis on which 
Ms R needs to agree to the reduction of her overdraft limit as a condition of the settlement. If 
the bank wishes to make such a change it should do so in line with the applicable terms and 
conditions, and its standard policies and procedures  which Ms R would be free to 
challenge in the usual way, such as by way of complaint, should she be unhappy with it. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require National Westminster Bank Plc to rework Ms Rs account 
as if her overdraft facility had been interest-free between 12 December 2018 and 
12 December 2020.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman