DRN-3799020
The complaint
Mr F complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited made an unreasonable 
offer as settlement of a claim he made on a car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F insured his car with AA. The car was damaged in an accident and he claimed on the 
policy. AA accepted the claim and declared that the car was a write off. Its final offer in 
settlement of the claim was £51,107.50, which it said was the market value of the car at the 
time of the accident.
Mr F didnt accept this and complained to AA. He said to replace his car would cost 
considerably more than the amount offered. When AA rejected his complaint, he approached 
our service. Our investigator thought AAs offer was fair. Mr F didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
My provisional decision
I previously issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In this I explained that while I 
considered our investigator had reached a reasonable conclusion, that AAs settlement was 
fair, it was for different reasons.
In the provisional decision, I said that one of the valuations from a trade guide which AA had 
relied on for Mr Fs car, of £50,335, should be excluded because there was no evidence to 
support that this had been obtained using the correct details for Mr Fs car.
I also said that as part of our investigation, wed obtained two further valuations for Mr Fs 
car using alternative valuation tools, of £53,891 and £53,285.
AA had provided evidence of two other valuations for Mr Fs car, which were £49,500 and 
£51,880. In its original calculation, it had excluded the lower value as being too low.
In light of all these valuations, I considered that the £49,500 valuation should no longer be 
excluded as being too low, as if I were to do so, Id also have to consider whether the 
highest value should be excluded as an excessive outlier. 
I went on to outline our approach to these types of complaint, which is that where an offer is 
made by an insurer which is within the range of the valuations obtained from the various 
trade guides (once outliers have been excluded) then wed normally say its made a 
reasonable offer.
I concluded that AAs offer of £51,107.50 was within this range and so was fair in the 
circumstances.
The responses to my provisional decision
AA accepted my provisional decision and made no further comments.
Mr R didnt accept my provisional decision. He considered my provisional decision didnt 
address the points hed raised in bringing the complaint to our service, particularly what our 
website says about our approach to these complaints.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No new evidence around the valuation of Mr Fs car has been provided following my 
provisional decision, so my further review has focussed on why Mr F considers the valuation 
hes been offered to be too low. 
Its clear from the correspondence with both AA and our service that Mr F considers adverts 
for similar cars to his are more representative of the market value than the offer made by AA. 
Mr F has said his own research indicates the selling price for similar cars to his was on 
average more than £4,000 more than he was offered. I assume hes referring to the prices 
similar cars were advertised for, as I havent seen anything from the relevant sellers 
confirming the prices and dates of sale, and details of the cars referred to by Mr F. On that 
basis, I have to conclude the valuations relied on by Mr F are for the advertised prices, not 
the selling prices.
In my provisional decision, I addressed the use of advertised prices, and their impact on 
complaints about settlement offers and market value. I said:
We normally consider that the valuation tools give a more accurate figure for market values, 
as they are based on likely and actual selling prices, advertised prices and other data.
Adverts alone arent usually enough for us to say that a settlement offer is too low. I havent 
seen anything which persuades me I should disregard the values given by the valuation 
tools in favour of the advertised prices found by Mr F. Im satisfied the valuations Ive relied 
on are based on accurate information about Mr Fs car at the time of the loss. It was 
reasonable for AA to use these when establishing a fair offer in settlement of Mr Fs claim. 
I havent seen anything additional from Mr F to change my opinion on this point.
Mr F also refers to a section of our website which says Although, you should be aware that 
more recently, weve been told by some trade guides that generally cars are selling at or 
close to advertised prices. I dont think this is enough for me to say I should prefer the 
advertised prices found by Mr F as more indicative of the market value than the valuation 
tools. I note that the paragraph directly preceding this on the website says We wouldnt 
normally place much weight on adverts to decide whether a valuation is fair. Differences in 
mileage or year of registration can significantly affect value, and sometimes the vehicle 
actually ends up selling for a lower price than advertised. 
Im satisfied the use of the trade valuation guides to establish the market value is a 
reasonable approach, and in line with how we generally consider these complaints. I havent 
seen anything to persuade me that I should prefer the advertised prices found by Mr F.
Ive looked again at the valuations obtained, and also considered the adverts provided by Mr 
F. I remain satisfied that the offer made by AA is reasonable, for the reasons Ive previously 
given.My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint. I dont require AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited to increase its settlement offer. Its offer of £51,107.50 was reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman