DRN-3126292
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the delays he experienced when transferring his ISA account 
from St Jamess Place Investment Administration Limited (SJP) to another platform. He 
says he suffered massive inconvenience and frustration and serious delay in transferring 
funds. He wants financial compensation and an apology. 
What happened
Mr D held an ISA with SJP which he wanted to transfer to another platform who I shall refer 
to as Company B. 
Mr D completed Company Bs ISA transfer application form in November 2020 and sent this 
onto Company B. Mr D didnt hear anything further and contacted SJP and was told it hadnt 
received the ISA transfer application form from Company B.
As requested, Mr D re-sent the form to SJP via email and also by recorded delivery. After 
contacting SJP in December he was told the National Insurance number quoted was 
incorrect and sent a further form with a corrected National Insurance number.
After additional contact between Mr D, SJP and Company B the transfer of the ISA was 
completed on 27 January 2021. 
Mr D was very concerned about the lost ISA application form sent in November. He had 
been told by Company B this had been emailed to SJP on 12 November and Company B 
had chased SJP about it. There had been problems with the acceptance letter Company B 
had sent to SJP in order for the transfer to be completed. Mr D was also concerned about 
the settlement for the ISA being made by cheque instead of a bank transfer as it would take 
more time for the ISA transfer to complete. 
Mr D complained to SJP. In its response on 20 January 2021 SJP said:
It confirmed it had received the ISA transfer application form for Mr Ds account on  
18 December 2020. It noted the National Insurance number was incorrect and it was 
unable to proceed with the transfer.
SJP had checked and hadnt received anything about Mr Ds ISA transfer prior to    
18 December 2020. 
When Mr D contacted SJP on 23 December he was advised it couldnt amend the 
incorrect National Insurance number on another companys literature.
Further to the documents, which included the correct National Insurance number, 
being received by SJP on 23 December it had informed Mr D they should be sent to 
Company B as stated in the ISA transfer application form. Company B would then 
send its acceptance letter and the transfer could proceed. It said that at that point the 
acceptance letter hadnt been received. 
Mr D was unhappy with the response and brought his complaint to this service. He said:
He had completed an ISA transfer application on 2 November 2020. Company B 
processed that application and sent it to SJPs administration centre. Mr D said he 
called SJPs administration centre on 16 December 2020 and was told it had no 
record of his ISA transfer request. He was told at the time that the National Insurance 
number on the ISA transfer application was wrong which he said he thought was odd 
as SJP said it hadnt received the application. 
Mr D sent a further copy of his ISA transfer application with the correct National 
Insurance number and which was signed for by SJP on 18 December.     
On 8 January 2021 SJP wrote to Mr D asking him to send the ISA transfer 
application to Company B. And that SJP needed a letter from Company B to confirm 
that it would accept the transfer. Mr D said he was told by Company B it didnt need 
to send an acceptance letter and it hadnt been asked to do so for previous transfers 
for other customers. Its transfer application form contained sufficient instruction for 
the ceding scheme provider.
Mr D said Company B spoke with SJP who confirmed that Mr Ds application had 
been included with other customers applications, but his application wasnt 
processed. Following a conversation between Company B and SJP it was agreed the 
transfer could go ahead without the covering letter. SJP sent cheques instead of 
bank transfers. Mr D said that SJPs administration procedures caused the delay and 
considerable distress to him.
SJPs final response letter to his complaint didnt refer to all the issues he had 
identified, and he didnt think it had been investigated or that the organisation 
communicated within its internal departments. 
Mr D thought the handling of his transfer application itself through to his complaint 
was incompetent, insulting, and insensitive. He said he may have been financially 
disadvantaged because of the delays. 
Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. She said:
She outlined SJPs terms and conditions regarding ISA transfers and Government 
guidelines which were that the transfer of a stocks and shares ISA should be 
completed within 30 days. 
The ISA transfer form Mr D completed on 2 November stated that it should be sent to 
Company B, but it had been sent to SJP, and the National Insurance number on the 
form was incorrect. The second form he signed on 23 December had the correct 
National Insurance and address although it seemed he post-dated the form as Mr D 
had said it was received by SJP on 18 December. 
She thought it was reasonable to suggest that company B had sent the form to the 
wrong department at SJP. The National Insurance number was incorrect, and she 
didnt agree that that form should have been accepted as Mr Ds personal details 
were wrong. She wouldnt have expected for SJP to validate his details from a third 
party in order to proceed with the transfer. 
As the form was sent to the wrong address, it was reasonable to say the 
Governments 30-day guideline for the transfer process hadnt started at that point. 
SJP had contacted Company B and when Company B sent the transfer authority 
form in December only one covering letter had been sent for several customers. And 
the investigator didnt think it would be fair to say SJP should have accepted the 
letter when it had details of other customers. 
She didnt think SJP acted unreasonably by requiring confirmation from Company B 
to make the transfer, which was in line with its terms. Company B said it included its authority within the transfer forms Mr D signed but SJP wouldnt know another 
business process. And the investigator couldnt see there was any mention of 
Company Bs authority or where SJP should send the ISA funds. Normally the new 
provider would send an acceptance letter confirming the payment details. 
Following discussion with company B, SJP agreed to the transfer without the correct 
paperwork.
Payment had been made electronically and not by cheque.  
SJP had confirmed the ISA withdrawal of £23,349.28 as at the valuation point of 22 
January 2021 and settlement was completed on 27 January. 
In conclusion, the investigator didnt think SJP had made any errors in the 
administration and had treated him fairly. 
Mr D didnt agree with the investigator. He said, in brief:
SJP had previously processed applications by email due to the pandemic and Mr D 
had sent the second application by recorded delivery, the same day that SJP 
requested it. 
During the call with Company B, SJP had agreed it was at fault and processed the 
application without the covering acceptance letter. 
The original November ISA application had been sent by email to Company B and 
Company B had emailed that onto SJP on or after 12 November. Company B also 
chased SJP for updates. 
Mr D couldnt accept that SJP didnt receive the original application. He would have 
expected such a large business to be able to redirect mail. And Company B had sent 
the November application to SJP.
It was Company B who contacted SJP and SJP had admitted its errors. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is conflicting evidence and testimony on file for this case. When the evidence or 
testimony is incomplete or contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  which, in other words, means I base my decision on what I think is most likely 
to have happened given the available evidence and the wider circumstances. And without 
wishing to be appear discourteous to Mr D, Ill be addressing what I consider the most 
salient points of his complaint with reference to the actual transfer itself and any identifiable 
delays caused by SJP.
The crux of this complaint is whether SJP received the November 2020 ISA transfer 
application. And if it didnt, did SJP process the second transfer request sent in December in 
a timely way. 
For ease of reference Ill first briefly outline what SJP has agreed should happen during an 
ISA transfer  
The customer completes an ISA transfer application form and sends this to the new 
platform  in this case Company B.
Company B then contacts the ceding company, SJP, with the ISA transfer application.
SJP agrees the transfer with Company B.
Company B provides SJP with an acceptance letter for the ISA and the transfer 
proceeds. 
The application sent in November
Mr D has given us a copy of his ISA transfer application which I see is signed by him and 
dated 2 November 2020. The instruction at the top of the form is for the completed transfer 
application to be sent to Company Bs address and that it required a wet signature for 
transfers. I note the address for the transferring ISA manager details  was given as SJPs 
head office address rather than its administration centre.  
Mr D has said he sent his original ISA application form onto Company B and that it was 
emailed onto SJPs office by Company B on or after 12 November 2020. We asked SJP 
about this and it confirmed that it doesnt have any records of being contacted or chased by 
Company B about that application. The first internal notes recorded by SJP about Mr Ds ISA 
transfer application dont start until 18 December. 
I cant know what happened to that application. Mr D has said that Company B emailed that 
form on to SJP and chased but I havent seen any evidence of that. SJP has told us it wasnt 
received. And as mentioned above the address for SJP given on the application form was 
SJPs head office rather than its administration centre. 
So, it could be the case that the form was directed to the incorrect recipient address. If it was 
emailed, SJP has confirmed to us it wasnt accepting emailed instructions despite what Mr D 
says he was told by Company B. But if that was the case, I would have expected there to 
have been some record that the email was received (even if it was rejected by SJP for any 
reason) but there arent any records to that effect. 
In the absence of anything to confirm that the application was sent to SJP by Company B  
by whichever delivery method  and the lack of any internal notes by SJP to show receipt,  
Im not persuaded it was more likely the application was received by SJP any earlier than it 
has already told us. If it had been, I would have expected action to have been taken and to 
see some sort of record, similar to those internal notes SJP has provided us for the 
December application but there arent any. 
As I dont have any evidence to show the application was received by SJP, my conclusion is 
that its most likely the first SJP knew about Mr Ds ISA transfer application was on              
18 December 2020 when its records start. 
I appreciate Mr D will be frustrated by my conclusion, but Im not persuaded, on the balance 
of probabilities, that its most likely SJP received the ISA transfer application form any earlier 
than indicated by its records. As Ive said, we do have records from 18 December onwards 
and I would have expected to see the same or similar if anything had been received sooner 
than that, even if the form was rejected, for whatever reason. 
As Ive reached this conclusion, I now have to consider what, in my opinion, is the second 
main element of the complaint and that is whether SJP transferred the ISA to Company B in 
a timely manner after it received the re-sent application. 
The application sent in December Mr D has said in December he re-sent the ISA transfer application directly to SJP, rather 
than company B, as advised by SJPs administration centre during a call. SJP has confirmed 
it was received but said that the form clearly shows it should have been sent to Company B. 
Ive carefully listened to the call recording of Mr Ds discussion with SJP on                         
16 December 2020. Mr D requested an update on the progress of his ISA transfer 
instruction. After completing Mr Ds security questions SJPs representative asked when the 
transfer request was sent or when the opposite plan manager sent it. Mr D confirmed that 
the application had been sent around a month earlier. 
The representative confirmed that it hadnt been received and gave examples of why this 
may have happened  the opposite plan manager not sending it on, it being lost in the post 
or being sent to the wrong address. She advised that Mr D should contact Company B about 
the missing application and that Company B could either send the application via the Altus 
system (if Company B used that system) or that it could forward it onto SJPs administration 
office by post for which she gave the address.  
Mr D has said he was advised during this call that the National Insurance number quoted on 
the form was incorrect and he questioned how SJP would have known that if it hadnt 
received the form already. But after listening to the call theres no mention of that, only that 
the transfer application hadnt been received. The earliest record of mention of the incorrect 
National Insurance number that SJP has recorded was on 23 December. But I do appreciate 
Mr D was in contact with SJP regularly so I think its understandable that his recollections of 
the various dates may not be clear. 
It looks as though Mr Ds understanding of the call was that he should re-send his form to 
SJP  which was received on 18 December  instead of Company B, rather than contacting 
Company B and advising it to send the form he had already sent in November onto SJP via 
the two methods outlined by the SJP representative. 
As Ive said above, SJP has confirmed the first time it received any ISA transfer application 
correspondence was on 18 December 2020 which ties in with the dates referred to by Mr D 
when re-sending the application. And subsequent to that Mr Ds National Insurance number 
had to be corrected.
The ISA transfer 
Ive reviewed SJPs file notes. Briefly;
on 18 December, those notes show that the inbound document  which I take to 
mean the ISA transfer application  needed to be sent onto the ISA transfer team at 
Company B. The transfer was also rejected because of a lack of an acceptance letter 
from Company B and a National Insurance number mis-match. 
On 23 December Mr D called SJP and was advised that the National Insurance 
number quoted on the ISA transfer application was incorrect and a new form would 
be needed. There is a copy of Mr Ds letter of 23 December enclosing a further ISA 
transfer form with the correct National Insurance number.
There is a note dated 30 December which requested that correspondence be sent to 
Company B asking for an acceptance letter as SJP was unable to transfer the ISA 
without it. 
The ISA transfer application form was sent onto Company B on 6 January 2021. 
Mr D was written to on 8 January 2021 by SJP advising that for it to be able to action his transfer request he would need to send his transfer form to Company B. It said 
Company B would then send it an acceptance letter to enable it to proceed. 
Mr D says he was told by Company B that it did not send acceptance letters, it hadnt been 
asked to do so for previous transfers to SJP and the transfer application itself contained 
sufficient instruction. In order to expediate the transfer of the ISA I can see there was a call 
between SJP and Company B about customer experience (including the need for physical 
forms and payment methods) and which was followed up by emails on 11 January 2021 and 
after. There was clearly some confusion about the wording needed in an additional transfer 
letter and it was questioned as to why Mr D had been treated differently to other customers 
whose transfers had been actioned. 
SJP has confirmed that it had received only one acceptance covering letter from Company B 
for several transfers, and the cover letter wasnt scanned onto Mr Ds account in error, hence 
the transfer not going ahead as it should have done like the other customers transfers that 
did take place. But its clear that this was resolved when a representative from SJP 
confirmed that as a concession the transfer of Mr Ds ISA could go ahead in any event. So, 
while there is evidence an administrative error did occur, it was recognised and resolved, 
and I dont think it had any significant impact in the overall timing of the transfer. 
Settlement
Mr D has said a cheque payment was sent rather than a bank transfer (BACS) when the ISA 
transfer was completed which caused a delay of around ten days as the cheque had to be 
cancelled and a BACS payment made. 
Ive looked through the notes and conversations between SJP and Company B and can see 
cheque payments are referred to but not for Mr Ds account. And I note that in an email from 
SJP to Company B on 21 January 2021 it said that to allow for redemptions to settle (the 
proceeds from sale of the ISA holdings) the money should be with Company B in five 
working days. There is also an internal note dated 22 January 2021 confirming SJP had 
asked Company B for its BACS details. And the account was settled on 27 January so I cant 
conclude there were payment delays.
SJPs response to Mr Ds complaint
In SJPs response of 20 January 2021 to Mr Ds complaint it said that it had written to him to 
advise that he was required to send the ISA transfer application form directly to Company B. 
To date it had not received an acceptance letter from Company B and remained unable to 
transfer the ISA until it did. Clearly this was wrong and SJP have confirmed this was an 
oversight as the complaint handler wasnt aware of the agreement reached between SJP 
and Company B about the transfer of the ISA going ahead without all of the paperwork. 
I can appreciate this caused Mr D some considerable frustration and no doubt confusion, but 
the complaint and the ISA transfer itself were ongoing simultaneously and being dealt with 
by two different parties at SJP within a short time span. So, I dont find the misinformation 
given in that letter to be deliberate or was designed to confuse. 
As Ive said above, Ive concluded Im not persuaded  for whatever reason  the ISA 
transfer application Mr D sent in November was ever received by SJP. And I think its most 
likely the first SJP was aware of the ISA transfer application was on 18 December 2020 as 
supported by SJPs notes. 
So, Ive considered whether  from 23 December 2020 to 27 January 2021  was a 
reasonable time frame for SJP to have completed that transfer. Clearly there were some problems with the paperwork that was required  as evidenced by the calls and emails 
between SJP and Company B  but that was resolved by SJP agreeing that the transfer 
could go ahead. And I also accept that Mr D was misinformed in SJPs response to his 
complaint which must have been confusing. 
But bearing in mind the Christmas and New Year breaks, where there would be less staff in 
the office and the inevitable delays, I dont think a transfer time of around four weeks to be 
unreasonable. 
Mr D has said he may have been financially disadvantaged because of the delays. But Ive 
seen nothing to persuade me thats appropriate in this case. Mr Ds investments remained 
intact until they were sold prior to the transfer and I cant reasonably award redress based on 
hypothetical losses. In this instance Im not persuaded that Mr D is entitled to redress (for 
potential losses claimed) just because he experienced issues with the transfer of his 
holdings. 
As Ive said above, I think the crux of this complaint is whether SJP received the November 
ISA application and if it didnt, did it process the subsequent application in a reasonable 
timeframe.
In conclusion, I think its most likely the first SJP became aware of the ISA transfer 
application was on 18 December as I havent seen anything to the contrary. I accept that 
there were some administrative failings but overall, once the December application was 
being processed and the transfer subsequently agreed with Company B, I dont think those 
failings had any significant impact on the timing of the transfer. And I havent found any 
evidence of delays in the final settlement of the ISA transfer.
Id like to thank Mr D for the effort he has made in bringing his complaint and I appreciate his 
strength of feeling about the issues surrounding his complaint. Its clear he was regularly in 
contact with SJP in order to progress the ISA transfer which must have been time 
consuming and frustrating for him. 
I realise Mr D wont be happy with my conclusion. But I hope I have been able to explain why 
and how, in the individual circumstances of this complaint I have reached the decision that I 
have. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman