DRN-3613032
The complaint
Ms B says Nationwide Building Society failed to process her application to transfer in an ISA
and she has lost interest as a result.
What happened
Ms B says she and her husband gave completed ISA transfer forms to a Nationwide branch
on 8 April 2021. She recalls they asked adviser to check the forms; there was a query on
hers that the adviser went off to check and retuned confirming all was okay. Ms Bs
husbands transfer went ahead but hers did not. Once he had received his certificate (around
two months after application) she visited the branch every three to four weeks to check up
on her transfer. She says she was told there was a delay due to applications not being
transferred to head office, but that interest would be backdated. After being told this on
several occasions, with no progress being made on the transfer, she complained to the
business in September 2021.
Nationwide said it had no record of Ms Bs application, and that if it had been caught up in
the delay she would have received a reference number. As she hadnt, it concluded she
hadnt applied to transfer in her ISA.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Bs complaint. He said this was a challenging case but
based on the available evidence he couldnt say Nationwide had made an error. He felt that
as Nationwide had assigned a reference number to all delayed applications and Ms B did not
have one it was hard to conclude Ms B had applied. In addition, Nationwides system
showed no record of any application to transfer in being logged in Ms Bs name.
Unhappy with this assessment Ms B asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint
was passed to me. I reached a different conclusion to the investigator and so I issued a 
provisional decision. An extract follows and forms part of this final decision. I asked both 
parties to send in any comments or new evidence by 25 July 2022.
Extract from my provisional decision
As the investigator said this is a difficult complaint to investigate and we lack conclusive
evidence. Ms Bs testimony about their branch visit to submit the two applications is credible,
but it does not allow me to know with any certainty what happened to her application. The
society has explained all applicants caught up in the delay were allocated a reference
number and Ms B did not receive one. It has also shown how ISA transfer requests are
logged on its system - and the most recent request in her name is from 10 August 2020. In
the circumstances I cant fairly conclude with certainty that there was a failing on
Nationwides part at this stage.
However, I think that it failed with the level of customer service it provided when Ms B visited
the branch to ask for an update. At that stage it ought to have asked for the reference
number (that all delayed applications had received) and when it then became apparent that
she did not have one, it would have alerted both parties to the missing application much
sooner  avoiding the inconvenience of repeated branch visits for Ms B, as well the stress of
not knowing what was happening to her savings.
To recognise the avoidable inconvenience Ms B suffered I will be instructing Nationwide to
pay her £50 compensation.
 
Ms B responded, accepting my provisional decision. Nationwide responded saying it agreed 
to pay the £50 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party sent in any new evidence or information I have no reason to change the 
findings or outcome set out above. So whilst I have not found Nationwide should be held 
liable for a loss of interest, it must compensate Ms B for not doing all it could to minimise the 
inconvenience she experienced. 
Putting things right
Nationwide should pay Ms B £50 compensation for the inconvenience she suffered.
My final decision
I am upholding Ms Bs complaint in part. Nationwide Building Society must now put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman