DRN-1833406
The complaint
Mr H complains that Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited renewed a motor 
insurance policy without his permission. 
What happened
Mr H took a motor insurance policy out with AA in June 2018.
Before the policy was due to renew in 2019 Mr H wrote a letter to AA saying he didn't want 
the renewal to happen. But AA says they never received the letter. Mr H spoke to AA about 
the policy, but the renewal was never cancelled. This meant the renewal took place, and AA 
tried to take direct debit payments for the monthly premiums. 
Mr H cancelled the direct debit with his bank as he didn't want the policy. This meant that 
payments weren't being made but, since the policy was active, there was a balance 
outstanding with AA. The outstanding balance increased each month and since no payments 
were received AA lodged a default on Mr H's credit file.
Mr H complained to AA about the renewal. The outstanding payments were written off and 
the default was removed. Mr H remained unhappy about what happened so brought his 
complaint to this service where one of our investigators looked into things. She thought AA 
renewed the policy in line with the terms and conditions Mr H agreed to when the policy was 
taken out. Mr H disagreed, so the complaint has come to me for a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at what happened I've no doubt that Mr H didn't want the policy to renew. But me 
being persuaded that Mr H didn't want to renew the policy isn't enough to say that AA acted 
unfairly or incorrectly.
Mr H says he wrote to AA asking to not to renew the policy. I've no reason to doubt that Mr H 
sent a letter, but AA says they didn't receive it. AA have also been unable to locate any calls 
made to them prior to renewal from the telephone numbers Mr H provided. 
When Mr H spoke to AA to sort out the last payment for first year of the policy, he said 
he wanted to cancel the renewal. AA said that to cancel the renewal Mr H would need to 
speak to the insurance department. Unfortunately when being transferred to the right 
department the call cut out. AA didn't hear from Mr H again so the renewal was never 
cancelled and went ahead.
I'm satisfied that AA made Mr H aware that in order to cancel the renewal there was an extra 
step he had to take by speaking to the right department. This didn't happen. AA didn't 
confirm to Mr H, either verbally or in writing, that the renewal had been cancelled. So I'm 
happy AA acted fairly and reasonably by renewing the policy and attempting to debit the 
payments.Mr H says AA didn't have permission to set-up a direct debit for the renewed policy. He also 
feels the documentation from when the policy was taken out is irrelevant. However I think the 
original policy documentation is relevant to what happened. The original policy 
documentation explains that the policy will renew each year, unless the renewal is cancelled. 
The renewal wasn't cancelled, so that's what happened. Because the renewal starts a new 
policy year AA is entitled to set up a new direct debit to take payments.
If I thought AA had made an error in renewing the policy I'd expect them to put things right. 
In that situation I'd expect them to remove the default and write off any outstanding amounts. 
AA has agreed to do this even though they, and I, don't think there were any mistakes in 
renewing the policy. Mr H says the default caused him difficulties, which I'm sure is 
true. However, because I think AA acted fairly and reasonably this isn't something I will be 
considering.
That's not to say that Mr H wasn't put to some inconvenience; he was. But having looked at 
everything I'm satisfied AA acted fairly and reasonably when renewing the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman