DRN-2254173
The complaint
Mr S complains Barclays Bank UK PLC has unfairly recorded late payment markers against 
him.  He says this has impacted on his new car purchase and he would like to be 
compensated.
What happened
Mr S complained to Barclays about his finance for a new car being declined.  He said this 
was because Barclays had recorded some adverse information regarding his credit history 
with the credit reference agencies.  
During the conversations which followed, for one reason or another, Mr S understood that 
his credit card had been sent to a third person by Barclays, fraudulent transactions had been 
carried out and as a result of these transactions, Barclays had unfairly recorded late 
payment markers.
When Barclays asked Mr S to specify which transactions he was disputing so that it could 
look into the fraud, he hadnt responded  so it closed his complaint, sent him a final 
response and said it would look at the disputed transactions once Mr S did respond.
That is when Mr S came to this service.  He complained that Barclays had generated a card 
for his account without his permission, had sent it to a third party who had used the card  
therefore generating the late payment markers which were having an adverse effect on him.
In its submissions to us, Barclays maintained its stance as per its final response.
When out investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint, it became clear that both Barclays and 
Mr S had been at cross purposes and in fact, there was no complaint in relation to 
transactions.  And Barclays had not sent Mr Ss cards to anyone except Mr S.  The 
confusion had arisen because during an earlier call with Mr S, there had been a mis-
pronunciation of Mr Ss name and what followed from there appeared to be a 
misunderstanding.
In relation to the adverse markers, our investigator thought they had been fairly placed due 
to Mr S not always making repayments on time.   So, he told Mr S that he wouldnt be asking 
Barclays to do anymore.
The matter was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that there has been some confusion here and this has in turn generated queries 
and concerns which appear to be unfounded.  I wont go into the details of what or who 
caused the confusion as the investigator has already dealt with that issue in detail.  But that 
doesnt mean I havent taken that into account when arriving at my decision.
The question for me is whether Barclays has done anything wrong here  and I cant fairly 
say that it has.
Mr Ss concern about his card being sent to another person is not supported by the evidence 
which Barclays has shown in relation to his card history.  Each card which has been issued 
has been sent to Mr Ss correct address.  His name and address with Barclays have always 
been the same.
So, it doesnt appear that a third party has ever had access to Mr Ss account  and so, 
there is no complaint regarding disputed transactions.  I think Mr S reluctantly concedes this 
point.
The crux of the complaint  and the reason Mr S had cause to complain to Barclays in the 
first place  are the adverse markers recorded with the credit reference agencies.  And Im 
afraid that Ive seen nothing to suggest that these have been recorded unfairly.  In fact, the 
evidence shows they have been recorded correctly following non-payments or late payments 
to the account. 
Unfortunately, whilst its disappointing for Mr S that his finance for a new car was refused, I 
cant fairly say this was as a result of Barclays doing anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman