DRN-2260966
The complaint
Miss P complains that Covea Insurance plc gave her poor service in connection with her 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss P has had to care for the needs of others including family members. She relied on her 
car. 
In March 2019, a third party reversed into the side of Miss Ps car. Miss P made a claim on 
her policy and Covea arranged repair of her car. It accepted the damage was the third 
partys fault. 
In June 2019, the rear of Miss Ps car came into contact with the front of another third partys 
vehicle. In August 2019 Covea settled that third partys claim for damage.
In late January 2020, Miss P complained to us that the March 2019 claim was still open 
and Covea had wrongly paid the June 2019 claim. She said she couldnt get an insurance 
quote she could afford. She was distressed about not being able to use her car.
Covea issued a final response letter dated 18 February 2020. For delay in dealing with the 
March 2019 claim, it offered Miss P £100.00. Unhappy with that, Miss P asked us to 
investigate her complaints.
Our investigator dealt separately with the complaints about the two incidents. My review and 
this decision relate to the claim arising from the incident in March 2019.
The investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that Covea 
should've handled this claim better. At first, he recommended that Covea should pay Miss P 
 in addition to the £100.00 offered  a further £400.00 to make a total of £500.00.
Miss P accepted the investigators opinion.
Covea disagreed with the investigators opinion. It said, in summary, that:
There had been a fall down in service.
Miss Ps policy had been due for renewal on 23 November 2019.
Up until 23 November 2019 was a reasonable amount of time for the file to remain 
open.
The compensation already paid of £100.00 is not enough. It proposed to increase 
this by a further £200.00.
Miss P didnt accept that offer.
The investigator changed his recommendation. He thought that Coveas offer was fair. He 
said that it was possible rather than probable that the March 2019 claim would've been 
resolved by 23 November 2019. 
Miss P disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
In November 2019 she took out a policy with another insurer but it cancelled the 
policy in late January.
She has suffered ill-health.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most motor insurance policies provide that the insurer may decide how to deal with claims 
involving a third party. Miss Ps policy with Covea included the following term:
We are entitled to decide exactly how to carry out any legal proceedings or settle 
any claim and to:
 take over and defend or settle any claim in the name of any person, company or 
firm insured by the policy; and
 take legal action in your name, or in the name of any person, company or firm 
insured by the policy, to get back any payment we make.
From what Ive seen, Covea couldve done more after the March 2019 incident to pursue 
recovery from the third party.
But, if the third partys insurer didnt accept the claim, then court proceedings were the only 
route to recovery. That wouldve taken some time. I cant say that Covea shouldve made a 
recovery from the third party before the November 2019 renewal date.
So  notwithstanding that the open claim adversely affected the cost of future insurance  I 
cant say that Covea shouldve prevented that from happening.
It is likely that the June 2019 claim also adversely affected the cost of future insurance. But 
Im not reviewing the fairness of that in this decision.
Miss P sent us documents showing that from 24 November 2019 to 30 January 2020 she 
had a motor policy with another insurer. She told us that insurer cancelled the policy 
because she hadnt told it about the March 2019 claim.
In late February 2020 Miss P told us her daughter had taken out a policy for them both with 
another insurer but it had cancelled the policy.
Such cancellations no doubt adversely affected the cost of future insurance. But I cant hold 
Covea responsible for that.
Putting things right
Overall I find it fair and reasonable to direct Covea to pay the compensation that it has 
offered.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Covea Insurance plc to pay Miss P in addition to its payment of £100.00, a further 
£200.00.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman