DRN-2922441
The complaint
Mr B complains National House-Building Council (NHBC) have unfairly declined his 
building warranty claim.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Under section 3 of the warranty, in years three to ten, NHBC will pay the full cost of 
repairs to physical damage caused by a defect in certain parts of the property. This 
list isnt exhaustive however, so it wont cover every single issue that could come up 
in a new build property
Mr B had previously reported water ingress in his roof space, which NHBC originally 
investigated in 2017
NHBC concluded the visible water reported by Mr B was condensation - and the 
claim wasnt covered under the warranty. I can see from the Investigation report 
NHBC checked the ventilation and insulation and were unable to highlight any 
defects at the time
Mr B says the issues presented themselves again around January 2021. NHBC 
agreed to reattend the property and again identified the issues to be condensation - 
and not related to water ingress through the roof coverings
In their updated report, NHBC suggested some scenarios that could be contributing 
to the condensation but has not concluded there was a defect. 
As these scenarios werent presented to Mr B previously, I can understand why he 
feels they were missed. But the report from the visit in 2017 shows clear detail about 
why the claim was declined and says the ventilation and insulation were checked at 
the time. I can see photos were also taken. So I think a thorough investigation took 
place
So Im not persuaded NHBC missed the issues in the first visit, but were simply trying 
to offer advice to Mr B regarding possible causes of the condensation
I understand Mr Bs frustration that hes experiencing issues with his property, but I 
dont think NHBC have acted unreasonably in declining his claim. A defect hasnt 
been identified that is covered under the policy. NHBC has relied on detailed reports 
in coming to their decision and Ive not seen anything to persuade me their 
conclusion is obviously wrong
NHBC said they would consider any further evidence from Mr B - if for example he 
were to appoint an independent contractor to assess the damage. This is what we 
would expect NHBC to do in the circumstances. So I dont think theyve acted 
unreasonably here
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman