DRN-4101393
Complaint
Miss F has complained about a loan Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) 
provided to her. She says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Likely Loans provided Miss F with a loan for £2,500.00 in May 2016. This loan had an APR 
of 65.9% and was due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of just under £140, which 
meant the total amount to be repaid was £4,965.12. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss F and Likely Loans had told us. And she 
thought Likely Loans hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss F unfairly. So she didnt 
recommend that Miss Fs complaint be upheld. Miss F disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Fs complaint.
Likely Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Likely Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Miss F could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what 
we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Likely Loans says it agreed to Miss Fs application after she provided details of her monthly 
income and some information on her expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Miss F could 
to comfortably make the monthly repayments she was committing to. On the other hand, 
Miss F has said she couldnt afford the payments.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss F and Likely Loans have said. 
Likely Loans credit file enquiries showed Miss Fs debt total at the time of the application 
was reasonable in comparison to her declared income, appeared to be reasonably managed 
and there was no significant recent indications of difficulty such as defaults, county court 
judgements or payday lending.
I accept that Miss Fs actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the information Likely Loans obtained. But given there wasnt 
anything in the other information gathered, to indicate that Miss F fell outside the profile of 
the average borrower, Ive not seen anything to suggest that it was unreasonable to rely on 
average data in this instance.
I also accept that if Likely Loans had carried out further checks  such as obtaining bank 
statements  it might have reached a different outcome. But the key here is that its only fair 
and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did something 
wrong. 
Given the circumstances here, the lack of obvious inconsistencies as well as the relative 
plausibility of what had already been gathered, I dont think that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would have extended into the level of checks Miss F is suggesting. As 
this is the case, I think that Likely Loans carried out proportionate checks and reasonably 
relied on what it found out which suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Likely Loans treated Miss F unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing her with her loan. And Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint. I appreciate this will 
be very disappointing for Miss F. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman