DRN-3445904
The complaint
Mr H raised a complaint that the repairs to his car paid for using his Santander UK Plc credit 
card were unnecessary and didnt resolve the issues he had raised. 
What happened
In July 2019, Mr H took his car to a garage (garage 1) for repairs as it was experiencing a 
cold start and high revving issue. He provided garage 1 with details of the issues and his 
concerns. The car couldnt be fixed at that time and Mr H says it was at garage 1 for three 
and a half months. Diagnostics and repairs took place including replacing the camshaft and 
engine which Mr H provided. Mr H was charged for the repairs which he paid for using his 
Santander credit card. 
When Mr H collected the car, he says the issues hadnt been resolved. He tried to negotiate 
a reduced invoice with garage 1, but this wasnt agreed. He then contacted Santander about 
reclaiming his money.
As Mr Hs car still wasnt running as he expected he took it to a different garage (garage 2). 
Repairs were undertaken to the wiring loom and engine control unit (ECU). Mr H says this 
repair resolved the issues he had raised in July 2019.
Mr H says the faults were misdiagnosed by garage 1 and the repairs undertaken were 
unnecessary. He provided evidence from garage 2 and a letter from a third party which he 
says confirms this. Based on this Mr H says there was a misrepresentation and breach of 
contract by garage 1. 
Santander considered Mr Hs complaint under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (s.75). 
It didnt agree that there had been either a misrepresentation or breach of contract by 
garage 1. It said it had discussed the claim with garage 1 which identified issues and 
informed Mr H of these. It said Mr H sourced parts and asked garage 1 to fit them which it 
did and invoiced him for. Santander said that Mr H hadnt provided sufficient evidence to 
prove the parts didnt need replacing and that Mr H had the benefit of the work completed. It 
said the garage 1 kept Mr H informed of the work being undertaken and it didnt find that a 
breach of contract had occurred. In regard to the possible claim of misrepresentation 
Santander said there was no one fix to a possible fault with a vehicle. It said Mr H was 
informed of the work that was to be undertaken and consented to this. 
Mr H didnt agree with Santanders response and referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think the evidence was conclusive 
that the works carried out by garage 1 werent carried out with reasonable care and skill or 
were unnecessary.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about the actions taken by Santander in regard to Mr Hs s.75 claim and 
whether Santander has acted reasonably and fairly given the evidence provided. I 
understand how frustrating the issues with the repairs and subsequent complaint have been 
for Mr H but in this case, I do not find that I can say Santander did anything wrong by not 
upholding his s.75 claim. I will explain my reasons for this.
Misrepresentation
Mr H has said that there was a misdiagnosis of faults with the car which then resulted in 
repairs that would otherwise have been unnecessary. He has particularly noted the camshaft 
and engine replacements. While I appreciate Mr Hs comments about using a specialist 
garage for the repair and as such it is reasonable to expect that they would be well placed to 
identify underlying faults, there is still an element of trial and error when trying to establish 
the cause of an issue. In this case I can see that Mr H had undertaken repairs on the car 
before attending garage 1. He had documented these for garage 1s information. 
Considering first the camshaft, garage 1 sent an email to Mr H in October 2019 which said 
Mr H had called it about whether the issue could be camshaft wear. There is an invoice 
showing that garage 1 spent time trying to diagnose the issues Mr H had raised. It records 
the electrical components being checked and a part dismantle of the engine to review the 
camshaft showing that the lobes and bearings were worn. Given the communication and the 
issues found on the investigation I do not find I can say that garage 1 was wrong to identify 
these issues or that I can say the issues identified were misrepresented. The email about 
this then says Mr H said he would supply a new camshaft and send it to them. As Mr H was 
aware of the work to be undertaken and provided the parts I cannot say that he was 
misinformed of the work that would be undertaken.
In regard to the engine replacement, the email form October 2019 says that Mr H chose to 
send a second-hand engine to garage 1 for it to fit. Mr H has said that after sourcing the 
camshaft and being told the camshaft bearings were badly worn, he was concerned that a 
full engine rebuild would be needed and so he chose to source a second-hand engine. So, 
while I appreciate Mr Hs comments that the issues he raised with garage 1 werent resolved 
by the replacement of the camshaft and engine, it was his choice to order the engine and 
request it to be fitted. Mr H has accepted that the cars engine was noisy, and the camshaft 
and bearings were worn and so I do not find garage 1 misdiagnosed the issues. As Mr H 
then took the actions of buying parts and asking them to be fitted, garage 1 acted under his 
instructions and so I cannot say the work was misrepresented.
I understand the point Mr H has made that while parts may have been worn given the age, 
condition and his usage of the car he didnt think these needed replacing at that time and he 
only went along with this as he thought it would resolve the issues he had raised about the 
cold start and high revving. However, as Mr H took the car for diagnosis and issues were 
identified I find it reasonable he was told about these. He then decided to take action to 
acquire parts to be fitted.
Mr H has provided evidence from third parties that the electrical issues should have been 
identified rather than mechanical repairs taking place. I have considered this. However, I can 
see that garage 1 also had the electrical components checked and in the third invoice note 
the loom was checked and several poor connections found. This repair wasnt undertaken by 
garage 1 but I do not find I can say that it was unaware of the issue or that it hadnt informed 
Mr H of this possible cause.Overall, I do not find that I can say the work undertaken on Mr Hs car was misrepresented 
to him. Diagnosis took place and Mr H was informed of the issues identified and he then took 
actions for replacements to take place, I do not find I can say the repairs were unnecessary 
or misrepresented. 
Breach of contract
In the event the repairs werent carried out with reasonable care or skill by garage 1, it could 
be found that a breach of contract had occurred. However, in this case the Mr H was 
informed of the work being undertaken and he provided the camshaft and replacement 
engine. I have nothing to suggest that the replacement of these items wasnt to a satisfactory 
standard. So, while I understand that Mr H was upset that the issues he had initially raised 
hadnt been resolved by these repairs, I cannot say the repairs were undertaken without 
reasonable care or skill.
In conclusion, while I understand that Mr H isnt happy with the repairs undertaken by 
garage 1, I do not find that based on the evidence provided that Santander was wrong to 
conclude that it didnt have sufficient evidence of a breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
Therefore, I do not find I can say it was wrong not to uphold Mr Hs claim. Because of this I 
do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman