DRN-4114399
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained about the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
(Admiral) dealt with their claim.
All references to Admiral include any agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have a travel insurance policy, underwritten by Admiral. They travelled abroad 
and made a claim as Mr M was admitted to hospital for emergency treatment. Following Mr 
Ms discharge, Admiral arranged accommodation for an extended stay and repatriation. In 
addition, Mr and Mrs M claimed further expenses when they returned home. 
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with the delays in repatriation and the level of communication 
so they complained. Admiral responded and agreed that it didnt deal with the repatriation as 
effectively as it could have done and offered to pay £100 compensation.
Mr and Mrs M accepted the £100 compensation but continued to chase for settlement of 
their expenses. But Admiral failed to respond any further and so the complaint was referred 
to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think Admiral had treated Mr and Mrs M 
fairly. He recommended that Admiral pay an additional £200 compensation and the 
outstanding claim for expenses, plus interest.
Admiral didnt respond and so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And should provide appropriate advice and guidance.
Following Mr Ms discharge from hospital, Mr and Mrs M repeatedly chased Admiral for 
updates on when they would be able to fly home. Admiral accepts that it didnt keep Mr and 
Mrs M properly informed and didnt explain the repatriation arrangements well enough. This 
caused distress and inconvenience to both Mr and Mrs M for which Admiral offered and paid 
£100 compensation. 
On their return to the UK, Mr and Mrs M submitted a claim for expenses including for travel 
and meals. Admiral did not reply or settle this claim and Mr and Mrs M chased numerous 
times. 
Under section 1 of the policy, the following expenses are covered:
for one person from your home area to stay with you if medically necessary, 
including economy class travel costs and expenses for their meals and travel.
Under the section claiming for emergency medical and travel expenses abroad it says:
You must provide receipts for all travel, accommodation, meals and phone calls for 
you and anyone staying with you during your illness.
Mrs M uploaded her receipts and invoices to the portal shortly after she returned to the UK in 
June 2022. She raised a further complaint about these expenses but didnt receive a 
response. I dont think Admiral has acted fairly or promptly.
Admiral should now pay the outstanding claim for expenses, in line with the remaining policy 
terms and conditions with 8% simple interest to recognise the period of time Mr and Mrs M 
have been without these funds. 
Admiral failed to provide sufficient updates and guidance during the repatriation process. 
And it has delayed in settling the expenses claim. I think the resulting distress and 
inconvenience has had more than just a minor impact on Mr and Mrs M. So I agree a total of 
£300 compensation is more appropriate. Admiral should pay £200 more in addition to the 
£100 already paid.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to:
Pay an additional £200 compensation to Mr and Mrs M (in addition to the £100 
compensation it has already paid) for distress and inconvenience.
Pay the outstanding claim for expenses in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy and any applicable limits.
Add and pay 8% simple interest on the amount paid for expenses from the date the 
claim was made, to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman