DRN-3317574
The complaint
Mr H complains that eToro (UK) Ltd made a mistake when he tried to withdraw his funds 
from his account. Mr H says that eToro split the payments, resulting in one of them being 
lost. Mr H says that as a result of this error, he has been unable to invest in other stocks and 
would like to be compensated for damages and loss of earnings. 
What happened
In November 2020 Mr H asked to withdraw around $2,500 from is eToro account. However, 
as the bank account he wished to withdraw his funds to was not the same as the primary 
bank account linked to his eToro account, Mr H needed to complete a signed waiver form to 
enable eToro to process his request. Mr H eventually completed this form and in 
December 2020 most of the money was withdrawn, with the exception of around $540 which 
appeared to have gone missing. It appeared that the account he had tried to withdraw this 
sum to had previously been closed, but it was unclear whether the receiving bank or eToro 
held the funds. 
Further correspondence ensued during which Mr H was given tracing information to identify 
the payment  and eventually eToro decided to credit Mr Hs eToro account with this sum. 
Mr H remained unhappy with the length of time it took for him to withdraw this money  and 
in particular claimed both compensation and loss of earnings in excess of £10,000,000. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint, but considered it shouldnt be upheld. 
In summary, he concluded that:
eToro acted in line with the terms by asking Mr H to sign a waiver form in order to be 
able to remove certain payment methods from his account. 
Mr H did not immediately sign the waiver form, and as a result payments could not 
immediately be made to his preferred bank account. 
One of the accounts Mr H had was closed on 30 November 2020, and therefore the 
payments were returned to eToro  it couldnt have known this. 
It eventually credited the missing amount to Mr H on 13 April 2021, despite it being 
unclear where the money had actually gone. 
Mr H had not provided any persuasive evidence about the trades he wouldve placed 
or the loss of earnings he was claiming. 
Mr H didnt agree but didnt provide any further information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid I dont have much to what the investigator has said. Ive reviewed the timeline of 
Mr Hs communications with eToro. Im persuaded by the evidence Ive seen that eToro tried 
at all times to assist Mr H in making his withdrawals promptly  but Mr H was not always 
clear about which accounts he wanted to use. There was also a period of time during which 
Mr H said he was abroad and was unable to contact one of the receiving banks in order to 
verify what had happened to his withdrawal. Whilst I appreciate all these matters were 
inconvenient, Im not persuaded eToro caused this confusion or the delays. 
The investigator has already pointed to the relevant terms which allowed eToro to ask for 
certain forms or identification before facilitating withdrawals. In particular, I agree that as 
clause 1.12.10 of the terms say, any withdrawal request will be paid to the same individual 
that originally deposited money with us via any of the payment methods used by him/her 
when the trading account was initially funded. And clause 1.4.2 on identification specifically 
allowed eToro to request certain documents to verify the details of the credit card, electronic 
wallet and/or other means of payment used by you to deposit monies in your account, or 
other details provided by you. This means that when eToro requested Mr H to sign a waiver 
form in order to remove the primary bank card linked to his trading account, it was entitled to 
do this under the terms. 
It isnt my role to second guess the processes which eToro has in place to meet its 
regulatory obligations and protect the assets of its customers. Ultimately, Mr H was treated 
likely any other customer of eToro and Im satisfied what he was asked to complete was fair 
and reasonable.
I can see that eventually most of the money Mr H asked to withdraw was credited to his 
preferred bank account, minus around $540 over which there was a dispute. The evidence 
Ive seen isnt persuasive as to whether that payment was indeed returned or not (the 
statement Ive seen shows a payment to eToro from the relevant account  but this predated 
his withdrawal request and was clearly a payment, not a return of funds). Nevertheless, 
eToro credited Mr Hs account with this money  allowing him to trade or withdraw it again 
as he saw fit. Im therefore satisfied that, here too, eToro hasnt done anything wrong. Its 
likely that the issues with the payment were caused by the relevant bank account having 
been closed, and this is something eToro couldnt have known. And its decision to credit his 
trading account with this money means that, in the end, Mr H didnt lose out financially.
Mr H has claimed very significant sums of money in relation to these funds. As Ive said 
above, Im satisfied eToro did not cause the delays in the funds being withdrawn  so I dont 
agree it would need to pay any compensation. And the investigator has already explained 
that our services award limits mean that Id be unable to award such an amount anyway. 
But the key issue here is that even if I thought eToro had unnecessarily delayed his 
withdrawal, Id need to see evidence of Mr Hs intention to trade at the time  and evidence 
from the time of the trades he wouldve wanted to place. This is because it would otherwise 
be impossible to determine what trades Mr H wouldve placed without the benefit of 
hindsight. Theres insufficient evidence about this  as most of the trades Mr H says he 
wouldve placed, he said so after the fact.  
For all these reasons, Im satisfied Mr Hs complaint shouldnt be upheld and eToro need 
take no further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman