DRN-2842625
The complaint
Mr V complains his American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) mobile app had a 
system failure which caused him unnecessary stress and inconvenience.
What happened
Mr V says he attempted to make a payment to his Amex credit card using his Amex mobile 
app but was unable to. His bank informed him the reason he couldnt make the payment was 
due to a system issue at Amex. Mr V says when he telephoned Amex, he raised a complaint 
about this and was told if he didnt make his payment by the due date, he could face his 
credit file being affected. 
Mr V says this problem caused him a great deal of stress and he had to make alternative 
arrangements to make the payment, taking up a great deal of his time. Mr V says Amex 
gave him a reference at the time of his complaint but never got back to him and when he 
chased them, they had no record of the complaint. Mr V is unhappy with the way Amex dealt 
with the issue and feels their systems should include a pre notification to its customers when 
they are having these types of issues or outages. Mr V doesnt feel the gesture of goodwill 
offered by Amex goes far enough to cover the stress and inconvenience caused.  
Amex says the problem occurred as they were undertaking routine systems maintenance 
which would have caused a temporary loss of service for Mr Vs mobile app. Amex says Mr 
V had alternative methods of payment available to him and while they apologised as his 
initial complaint wasnt logged correctly, they feel their goodwill offer of £25 is reasonable 
here. Amex also says if the system outage had caused any delays in receiving Mr Vs 
payment, he would not have been penalised for this. 
Mr V wasnt happy with Amexs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold Mr Vs complaint. 
The investigator felt while Mr V had been inconvenienced by the outage of his app, its not 
unreasonable for Amex to carry out system upgrades and there were alternative methods of 
payment available to him that day. The investigator explained this service couldnt consider 
the complaint handling issues he raised as this was not a regulated activity. The investigator 
felt the offer of £25 as a goodwill gesture was fair. 
Mr V wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr V to not be able to use his mobile app 
to make the payment he wished, to his Amex credit card. I can also see that Mr V felt his 
complaint wasnt properly dealt with initially and the whole matter has caused him a great 
deal of stress and inconvenience and Amexs goodwill offer of £25 isnt sufficient. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Amex have acted fairly when dealing with the 
issues Mr V faced, when he tried to make a payment using his mobile app, and if their 
goodwill gesture of £25 is reasonable here. 
What happened here was Mr V attempted to make a payment to his Amex credit card, the 
day before his due payment date, using the mobile app he has with them. Mr Vs main issue 
here seems to be that he had no prior notification from Amex they were carrying out system 
updates causing the outage, and only discovered this when he spoke to his own bank and 
then telephoned Amex to complain. Mr V also feels Amex didnt log his initial complaint 
despite providing him with a reference number for this. Mr V says, while he was able to 
make a payment by a bank transfer, it took up a good proportion of his time that morning and 
this could have been avoided if Amex had a push notification system in place, to inform its 
customers when issues like these arise. 
The first thing to say is, its not the role of this service to tell businesses like Amex what 
systems they must have in place to notify its customers, although the investigator has made 
them aware of the points Mr V made. What is important is alternative methods were 
available to Mr V to make the payment he needed, which is what happened here. Its worth 
pointing out these payment methods are clearly detailed on Mr Vs monthly credit card 
statement. 
Its also worth mentioning that while Mr V was concerned that he may face issues with his 
credit file if the payment was late, which no doubt added to the stress he felt. That said, 
Amex have told this service, if there were system failings resulting in late payments, they 
wouldnt penalise customers like Mr V for this.
Mr V says his initial complaint wasnt dealt with by Amex after he complained to them, but as 
explained by the investigator its not part of this services role to look at issues arising over 
complaint handling as we have no authority to do so, as this isnt considered to be a 
regulated activity described by The Financial Conduct Authority, by whom we are governed. 
That said Amex have accepted they didnt log Mr Vs initial complaint and have apologised 
and offered him £25 as a goodwill gesture, which is what I would expect to see  and I 
understand this is still available to him should he wish to accept the offer.  
I can see Mr V has clearly expressed his views regarding Amexs service and their lack of 
clear explanation to why he faced the problems he did that day, which I understand. But I 
think its fair to say that its not unreasonable for Amex to carry out system upgrades, or 
unfortunately from time to time there to be occasional unexpected outages, provided 
customers arent financially disadvantaged as a result - I cant see Mr V was here. While Mr 
V may not agree, its not my role to penalise businesses like Amex, when system issues like 
this occur, and I am satisfied other payment methods were available to Mr V other than his 
mobile app.  
While Mr V wont be happy with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Amex here.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman