DRN-1232512
 
 
 
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
May 2002. Miss D, who is represented by a third party, says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), 
trading as Halifax, mis-sold her the PPI to go with a mortgage. 
Miss D says she didnt want or need the PPI. 
The PPI was sold to her as part of a package including life and critical illness cover, but Im 
only looking at the PPI element in this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Miss D says she bought the policy during a meeting and also that BoS made a 
recommendation about taking out PPI. That means BoS needed to ensure that the policy 
was suitable for Miss Ds personal situation and the information it gave her about the policy 
was clear, fair and not misleading. 
I think BoS made it clear that Miss D didnt have to take out the PPI but she chose to do so  
although I can understand why she cant remember this. Shes told us that she wasnt made 
aware that she had a choice about whether or not to buy the cover. I cant know what was 
said to Miss D at the time of the sale, so I am making my finding based on what I think is 
most likely to have happened. 
Its unfortunate that a lot of the sale documentation is no longer available, so Ive relied on 
the sale details Ive seen plus what I know about BoSs process for this type of policy at the 
time. This includes evidence from BoSs own screenshots showing that Miss D answered 
questions to check shed be eligible for the cover. 
Having taken all this into account I think its more likely than not that Miss D knew she had a 
choice about whether to buy the policy and decided to go ahead and buy it. 
Given that BoS recommended the PPI to Miss D, it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. Miss D 
told us she would get some benefits from her employer  of 6 months at full pay followed by another 12 months at half pay - if she was unable to work. Thats an unusually generous 
level of benefit. But in any event the PPI would pay out for longer  up to 24 months per 
claim - and in addition to any other sources of income that were available to Miss D. 
I cant see that  Miss D was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. If 
she couldnt work shed suffer a significant fall in income and be at risk of losing her home. 
So overall I think Miss D wouldve found the policy useful. And it wouldve paid out in 
addition to her existing work benefits and avoid the need for her to have to rely on other 
financial resources, such as savings.
Its possible the information BoS gave Miss D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Id like to assure Miss D that Ive thought carefully about everything shes told us - including 
what shes said about the way the sale happened at the time. Having taken into account 
what Ive seen about the sale, unfortunately I havent seen enough to make me think 
something went wrong in the sale process that led to the policy being mis-sold. 
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So BoS doesnt need to refund everything 
Miss D paid for it.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman