DRN-4359240
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is that Barclays Bank UK PLC incorrectly reported a payment 
arrangement as arrears on their credit files. They say that as a result, they couldnt get a 
mortgage to purchase a new property. Mr and Mrs B also say that when they then asked 
Barclays to agree to port (transfer) their mortgage onto a new property, the bank declined to 
do so, which they say is unfair.
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat the details here.
In addition, Barclays has accepted it made an error in reporting the payment arrangement as 
missed payments, and so I dont need to analyse the events in detail in order to determine if 
the bank made a mistake.
Finally, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Mr and Mrs B being identified. So for these reasons, I will instead concentrate 
on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it; rather, itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs B have a mortgage with Barclays taken out in October 2019. They borrowed a 
total of £327,400 over a term of 17 years on a capital repayment basis. In October 2021 
Mr and Mrs B took out a five-year fixed interest rate product, at which point the balance of 
the mortgage was approximately £298,500.
Unfortunately from October 2021 payments on the mortgage started to be missed and 
arrears on the account began to build up. Mr and Mrs B spoke to Barclays about this and it 
was agreed that the bank would accept a reduced payment for three months. Mrs B 
explained to Barclays that shed injured her back, but was hoping to return to work. 
The arrangement was renewed in January 2022, albeit after a slight error by Barclays in not 
implementing this when Mrs B spoke to the bank in December 2021. The arrangement was 
that Mr and Mrs B would make a reduced payment of £461.70, which was approximately 
24% of the actual monthly repayment due of £1,922. 
In April 2022 Mrs B explained to Barclays that her health problems appeared to be more 
long-term than originally anticipated, as a result of which she wasnt able to return to work. 
She explained that she and Mr B had put the property on the market and were downsizing, 
which would give them a lump sum to pay back the arrears and their other creditors, and 
reduce the size of their mortgage. Given that the property was being sold, Barclays renewed 
the payment arrangement for another four months.
Mr and Mrs B went to a mortgage adviser to arrange a new mortgage. It was at this point 
they discovered that Barclays had recorded a missed payment on their credit files in 
December 2021. Mr and Mrs B say that, as a result of this error by the bank, they werent 
able to get a mortgage elsewhere to enable them to downsize. Mr and Mrs B were also 
distressed to keep receiving arrears letters from Barclays when they were in a payment 
arrangement.
Mr and Mrs B complained to Barclays. The bank accepted it had made an error, amended 
the credit file to show December 2021 as an arrangement to pay and offered £400 
compensation, which Mr and Mrs B didnt accept. They say that, but for the banks error, 
theyd have been able to get a mortgage elsewhere, move house and clear their debts. 
Instead Mr B withdrew a lump sum from his pension and in November 2022 paid off the 
arrears of about £14,000. Mr and Mrs B say that Mr B will now lose about £9,000 a year from 
his pension, which they think Barclays should compensate them for.
In addition, Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Barclays refused to allow them to port (transfer) 
their mortgage interest rate product onto a new mortgage on another property. Barclays 
agrees that it should have given Mr and Mrs B the opportunity to speak to one of its 
mortgage advisers. However, the bank said that it would not have agreed the request in any 
event, due to the level of arrears and the payment history, which meant that they would not 
have met the banks lending criteria.
Mr and Mrs B are still in their original property, having paid off the arrears from Mr Bs 
pension lump sum, and I am told that the mortgage is up-to-date.
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to our service. An investigator looked at what had 
happened. She acknowledged Barclays had made an error in relation to the December 2021 
payment  which in turn triggered arrears letters. The investigator thought the £400 
compensation was fair in all the circumstances.
In relation to the bank declining a request to port the mortgage interest rate product, the 
investigator was satisfied that, given the account history, Barclays was entitled to decline 
this.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint.
Mr and Mrs B are concerned about Barclays internal controls that failed to identify the 
banks error with the missed payment marker. They said that it appears an apology from the 
bank exonerates it from any significant penalties. Mr and Mrs B say they were told by 
several brokers that the payment arrangement would not have impacted on them getting a 
new mortgage, but the missed payment meant they werent able to proceed.
Mr and Mrs B also say that there has been no consideration of the impact of this on Mrs Bs 
health, and that there was no alternative but for Mr B to withdraw the funds from his pension 
after they werent able to sell and downsize.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons.Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes and systems, or how they operate generally; thats 
the role of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between 
businesses and their customers. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else, but in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and the remit those rules give us.
We have no power to sanction, punish or fine businesses  thats the role of the FCA. So 
whilst Ive noted Mr and Mrs Bs comments about what they perceive to be a failure of 
Barclays internal controls, supervising the banks systems doesnt fall within my remit. 
Credit file: Barclays has accepted that in December 2021 it incorrectly recorded the payment 
arrangement as a missed payment and that, when it corrected this in January 2022, it wasnt 
carried through by one of the credit reference agencies. 
Mr and Mrs B say that, as a result, they werent able to get a mortgage with a new lender. 
However, I am not persuaded that this one event  the incorrect marker for the payment in 
December 2021  had the impact that Mr and Mrs B believe it had. 
I say this because, whether it was a missed payment or an arrangement to pay, any 
potential lender would have taken into account that Mr and Mrs B hadnt been able to make 
the full repayment on their existing mortgage for a number of months, and that arrears had 
accrued as a result. Whether or not a payment arrangement is in place, most mainstream 
lenders will not accept an application where there have been mortgage arrears within the 
previous twelve months (or, for one major lender, no more than three months arrears in the 
past three years). 
Other lenders, usually what are known as sub-prime lenders, will take mortgage arrears into 
account, as well as unsecured credit, but will often require all payments to have been made 
in full to secured and unsecured creditors for at least six months. The payment history will be 
reflected in the limited range of products available to customers with adverse credit.
So notwithstanding that the December 2021 payment was incorrectly recorded as a missed 
payment rather than an arrangement to pay, Im not persuaded that this was the only reason 
why Mr and Mrs B couldnt secure a mortgage elsewhere. I think the level of arrears on the 
account would have been a major factor in determining whether or not Mr and Mrs B would 
have been eligible for a mortgage with another lender. In addition, Mr and Mrs B have told us 
they had other unsecured debt problems, which would also have been a contributory factor. I 
have not seen Mr and Mrs Bs credit files, but from what they have told us, and because of 
the continuing mortgage arrears, Im not persuaded Barclays error resulted in them not 
being able to get another mortgage.
Porting request: Barclays has acknowledged that it could have arranged for Mr and Mrs B to 
speak to a mortgage adviser when they discussed porting their mortgage interest rate 
product onto another mortgage on a new property. I note that, during the conversations 
about the payment arrangements, Barclays asked Mr and Mrs B if they wanted to speak to a 
mortgage adviser, but they declined at that time.
However, Barclays says that it would have declined the application in any event, due to 
concerns about affordability.There are regulations in place that have flowed from the Mortgage Market Review (MMR) 
carried out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) which took place after the financial 
crash in 2008. This has led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way 
residential mortgages are regulated. MMR regulations have brought about requirements for 
stricter lending assessments, aimed at protecting consumers and encouraging mortgage 
lenders to act more responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their 
mortgages might have difficulties with this if they had passed tests under the old rules but 
wouldnt under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules to address this. The rules are 
contained in the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB).
MCOB says a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability assessment if a borrower 
wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is no additional borrowing (other 
than for product fees) and no change to the terms of the mortgage that is material to 
affordability.
Mr and Mrs B wanted to downsize, reducing their mortgage from (in September 2022) 
approximately £293,000 to about £230,000, increasing the loan-to-value ratio (LTV) from 
about 66% on their existing mortgage to about 72% on the new property. There were arrears 
of about £14,000 at this point, although from July 2022 payments on the mortgage itself 
were being maintained.
However, the payment history was material to affordability, and in addition Barclays notes 
record that Mr and Mrs B were also in difficult with unsecured creditors. Furthermore, the 
increase in the LTV increased the risk to Barclays, which again was a material change to 
affordability. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that Barclays concerns about affordability 
were justified. If an application to port had been made, Im not persuaded it would have been 
successful at that time.
Arrears repayment: After the payment arrangements ended, the mortgage was still 
substantially in arrears. Mr and Mrs B declined financial advice from Barclays, and instead 
said they were selling the property and would repay the mortgage in full. 
After Mr and Mrs B werent able to move, they needed to address the arrears. It was their 
decision to draw a lump sum from Mr Bs pension to do this. I cant see that Barclays was 
made aware theyd done this until after the fact, or advised Mr B to do this. Therefore Im not 
persuaded Barclays is responsible for this decision. Mr and Mrs B havent explained how 
they would otherwise have been able to pay off the arrears, unless they had sold the 
property.
Customer service: Barclays has accepted it made a mistake in incorrectly recording the 
December 2021 payment as missed, rather than part of the payment arrangement. For the 
reasons given above, Im not persuaded that this was the only reason Mr and Mrs B werent 
able to get a new mortgage. 
However, this did trigger system-generated letters that I know caused some distress and 
upset to Mr and Mrs B. Barclays has apologised, and offered £400 compensation, which I 
think is fair, reasonable and proportionate in all the circumstances.
As Mr and Mrs B have been up-to-date on their mortgage and arrears-free for the last year, if 
they want to move and downsize, they can, if they wish, speak to Barclays about porting 
their mortgage onto a new property. Any application would be subject to the banks lending 
criteria.My final decision
My final decision is that, in full and final settlement of this complaint, Barclays Bank UK PLC 
must pay Mr and Mrs B £400 compensation for distress and inconvenience. I make no other 
order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman