DRN-4163127
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with the service provided by Automobile Association Insurance 
Services Limited (AA) when taking out motor insurance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill summarise the main points about this dispute:
Mr and Mrs A took out motor insurance policies through AA. When doing so, they 
encountered difficulties and delays. After receiving an initial quotation, they wanted to 
update some information. They tried to use the webchat function to do this and get 
an updated quotation. But after being on hold for a long time, they were told AA 
couldnt help them and they would have to return later. The same thing happened 
again later. Eventually they were able to update and take out the policies.
AA said that during the relevant time, it suffered system wide problems that severely 
limited incoming and outgoing calls. As a result, its webchat function was much 
busier than usual. So, it chose to limit the help it gave to existing customers with 
priority problems. As Mr and Mrs A werent exiting customers and their proposed 
policy start date was several weeks away, they werent seen as a priority.
AA accepted there was a problem with its service. It offered £20 compensation and 
to waive two administration fees totally £56.
Mr and Mrs A accepted this in principle. But they said theyd only received the £20 
compensation and the administration fees hadnt been waived or refunded.
Our investigator thought AA had taken reasonable steps to put things right. She was 
satisfied the administration fees had been waived.
Mr and Mrs A remained unconvinced. They didnt think the amounts theyd paid for 
the policies had reduced in line with the administration fees and noted policy 
documents said the fees were included in the price theyd paid.
AA explained that the policy documents were automatically generated to say the fees 
were included. But it provided system information to show that wasnt the case.
Its not in doubt that AAs service was disrupted and this caused Mr and Mrs A 
avoidable frustration. Im satisfied that AAs offer to pay compensation and waive the 
administration fees is a reasonable remedy in the circumstances. Its paid the 
compensation. All that remains in dispute is whether it has waived the fees or not.
AA accepts the policy documents are incorrect because they dont reflect ad-hoc 
actions, like waiving fees. So I can see why its given Mr and Mrs A cause to question 
what AA have told them about waiving the fees.
However, its system information is clear. It shows for each policy, the amount Mr and 
Mrs A has paid is the premium before the fees were added. AA intervened to prevent 
the fees from being added, so theyve been waived. As a result, Im satisfied Mr and 
Mrs A havent paid the fees and have therefore been compensated.
I know Mr and Mrs A say the premiums they were quoted initially included the fees 
and were similar to what theyve paid. So they dont think the fees have been waived. 
Ive looked at the information theyve provided about this. The webchat says the fees 
will apply to the policies. I think this means the fees will be added later  not that the 
fees are already included in the quoted premiums. Thats consistent with the system 
information AA has shared.
AA has accepted that its webchat could have been clearer  and so could its policy 
documents  and this has confused things unnecessarily. I agree. But overall Im 
satisfied AA has waived the fees as it said it would. That means Mr and Mrs A have 
effectively been compensated around £75 in total. And I think thats reasonable in the 
circumstances. So I wont be telling AA to do anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman