DRN-4024112
The complaint
Ms H complains about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds (Fairmead) poor service and excess 
payment, following a claim under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms H had accidental cover with Fairmead. She made a claim as her TV was accidentally 
damaged. Fairmead accepted the claim and in line with the policy, offered her a replacement 
TV. Ms H believed that the replacement TV she was offered wasnt a like-for-like. She also 
believed that the excess payment Fairmead wanted (£150) wasnt the correct amount that it 
should have charged her. So, she complained to Fairmead. 
Ms H said that she had to chase Fairmead for a response, which took around six months 
and she still hadnt received an outcome. In its final response, Fairmead confirmed that the 
applicable excess was £150, which had been highlighted to Ms H during the renewal 
process. It did agree that there had been some poor service issues and it offered £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Ms H wasnt happy with this resolution, so referred her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that 
Fairmead had correctly applied the excess and Ms H had been notified of the applicable 
excess by Fairmead at renewal. He said that Fairmead had followed the terms of the policy 
by offering Ms H a new for old, and the replacement TV had been equal to, or better than, 
her damaged one.  He also said that the compensation offered of £100 for the poor service 
was fair. So, there was nothing further he could reasonably ask Fairmead to do to resolve 
the complaint. 
Fairmead accepted the view. Ms H did not. She said that throughout the claims process, she 
had received poor service. She had selected an excess of £100 and not £150. She 
questioned why she would have to check her policy as the policy was on an auto renew and 
she had selected £100 as an excess, from the beginning. She felt that our investigator had 
sided with Fairmead, so she asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Ms H, but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
I have considered both partys comments as well as the policy terms and conditions. 
As one of the issues with this complaint is the poor service and primarily the delays that Ms 
H said she experienced, Ive had a look at the timeline of events. From the report of damage, 
right up to Fairmeads response. The brief timeline and notes are as follows:
6 June 2022  Ms H reported the damage to her TV. Fairmead asked for information from 
Ms H regarding her TV, which Ms H said she sent it in on that same date. Ms H said that she 
asked for the same make and model TV as the one damaged. 
13 June 2022 Ms H contacted Fairmead to find out where the claim was up to. She was 
passed on to the claims department.
14 June 2022 Fairmead told Ms H about the process of the closest match to the TV, Ms H 
said that she would be happy with a TV with the same specifications as the damaged TV. 
There is discussion of the cost of the replacement TV.  Ms H said that if there could be a 
like-for like replacement then great. She mentioned chasing up. Fairmead said that they 
would have to send her details to the validation service. Apologised for the delay. Call 
finished with Ms H accepting that she would hear back within 48 hours. 
15 June 2022 call from Fairmead. Assessing damage of TV, few questions asked regarding 
damage. Proof of purchase sent in. Confirming length of time, she had owed TV. Confirmed 
details about damaged TV. Ms H mentioned that her damaged TV was now unavailable. 
Fairmead said that it was in a position to provide a settlement and an email would be sent 
with a settlement offer. A replacement TV or in alternative a cash offer and it was for Ms H to 
decide how she would like to proceed. The email was sent to Ms H. Ms H contacted 
Fairmead to dispute excess. Fairmead said that it would confirm and get back to her.
17 June 2022 Ms H calls for an update in her claim. Fairmead told her that it was just waiting 
for a decision from her. But soon apologised as this was an error, as it was actually waiting 
for confirmation of the excess. Ms H passed to another dept to confirm excess. 
21 June 2022 Ms H called wanting information regarding her claim, stating that she was 
nowhere nearer to getting a resolution. She later requests a cash settlement, and the quote 
was sent to assist.
22 June 2022 Ms H called Fairmead and disputed the specification of the alternative TV, 
stating that the reviews she had read were poor. This was the reason why she didnt want it 
but wouldnt give a specific reason why she didnt want the TV, except the poor reviews.  
From the timeline, although there was a delay from the initial report of loss (6 June 2022) I 
can see that within two weeks, Fairmead had offered a replacement TV (with the same or 
better specifications) and offered a cash alternative of £299 less the excess payment of 
£150, leaving a cash payment of £149 to be paid to Ms H. 
Whilst I accept the delay wouldve likely caused Ms H some distress, Im satisfied that 
Fairmead accepted that it had made an error. I think, given the poor service, the apology, as 
well as the impact on Ms H, which I think was minimal (as there is no evidence from Ms H 
that is contrary to this), Im satisfied that Fairmead recognised the poor service. And the level 
of compensation is fair. 
Ive next considered the excess payment. Ms H said that when she originally took out the 
policy, she selected an excess payment of £100, so Fairmead had been wrong to charge 
£150. Ive reviewed the policy documents that were sent to Ms H on renewal. Those documents 
outline the various excesses to be paid in the event of a claim. Under the accidental damage 
section, the excess payable was £150. 
I understand that Ms H believed that she didnt have to read policy terms and conditions, as 
she was on an auto renewal. But each new policy is a new contract with an insurer. And we 
would expect policy holders to check that the policy is suitable for their needs, which would 
include whether they are happy with the excesses to be charged. I note from the policy that 
Fairmead highlighted this also. So, I cant agree that Fairmead gave misleading or incorrect 
information to Ms H. And from all the evidence, Im satisfied that the correct excess charge 
was applied to the claim. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Fairmead has accepted the poor service it provided to Ms H. And 
whilst I understand how disappointed Ms H will be, I think Fairmead was fair and reasonable 
to offer compensation of £100, for the trouble and upset caused. As well as providing an 
alternative TV (with the same or better specifications as the damaged TV) or cash 
settlement, as per the policy terms and conditions. Accordingly, I cant reasonably ask 
Fairmead to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman