DRN-3180243
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the closure of her account with Home Retail Group Card Services 
Limited trading as Argos Card (Argos). She also complains that it will not give her 
appropriate help to re-open it or to set up a new account.
What happened
Mrs H had had a store card account with Argos for a number of years. She tried to use the 
account to make a big purchase only to find the account had been closed. Mrs H contacted 
Argos to find out what had happened. She tells us she was told by Argos that it had decided 
to close her account due to inactivity. She also tells us that she got no notice before Argos 
did this.
Mrs H wanted either to re-open the account or, if this was not possible, to apply for a new 
one. But according to Mrs H, Argos told her it could not re-open the account. Further, it also 
told her the only option she had was to apply for a new account. 
To apply for the new account, she had to apply either online or in person in a store. Mrs H 
suggests that neither of these two options is convenient and she explained why. When Mrs 
H contacted this service, she told us she does not use a computer. That is why she could not 
apply online. As to why she could not go to a store to make an application Mrs H gave us a 
number of reasons. She is disabled - she uses a wheelchair, moreover the nearest branch is 
quite some distance away. Therefore, it could cost her at least £80 to make the round trip. 
Mrs H explained that this is because she would need a disabled taxi plus the assistance of a 
Personal Assistant, or a friend or a relative. If she had to use a Personal Assistant, this 
would cost at least £80, and this would be on top of the cost of the disabled taxi. She tells us 
that she also asked Argos to post an application to her, this was an alternative that would 
have worked for her, but it would not agree to this request.  
Mrs H suggests that because she has a disability that made it especially difficult for her to go 
to a store, Argos should, by law, have offered her alternatives that she could access more 
easily (such as posting her an application form). Mrs H tells us she brings her complaint, in 
part, because she wants to set a precedent. This is because she wants a society that is 
caring not one that treats disabled people less favourably than those without a disability. 
Mrs H also suggests that Argos no longer wanted her as a customer because she is an older 
person. She told us about friends of hers who have told her that they had accounts closed 
for this reason. She indicates that the thinking behind it is that businesses are worried that 
the customer will die before they pay the debt. In Mrs Hs opinion therefore, Argos has 
discriminated against her because of her age and that is why it closed her account and she 
considers this to be against the law.
Further, Mrs H underlines that she is a long-standing customer, with good credit who always 
pays off the balance on her account. She only uses her Argos card when she wants to make 
a large purchase. She suggested that she was made to feel like she was a bad credit risk 
because Argo was refusing to re-open her account or open a new one for her unless she 
applied online or in person in a store. Her point being only people with bad credit are refused 
new credit.
In its final response Argos agreed it had closed Mrs H account due to inactivity. However, it 
indicated that it had not closed the account prematurely. Rather, it explained that the cards 
for its accounts have an expiry date which is three years after the date they are issued. Once 
the expiry date is reached it then can either renew the card or close the account. Mrs Hs 
card was due for renewal in July 2021 and when it looked at whether it should renew the 
card at this point it decided not to. Mrs H had not used her account for quite a while. 
Specifically, the last purchase was made in May 2018 and she paid off that balance fully in 
February 2020. Therefore, there had been no movement on the account for the 12 months 
prior to July 2021.  It explained that it had taken a commercial decision not to issue new 
cards where the card has expired if the account has been inactive for 12 months or more. It 
suggested it took this approach to protect both parties. For all of these reasons, Argoss 
stance was it had acted correctly.
Further, Argos invited Mrs H to apply to open a new account. Argos went on to tell her again 
that the only two routes for doing this were either online or in store. It recognised that Mrs H 
wanted it to post her an application, it did not go into why this was not possible. Rather it 
said:
I am aware you are not happy as we are not able to provide you a copy of an application 
form for you to complete and to return to us. It is important to advise the only way to apply 
for an Argos Card account is as explained above.
Dissatisfied Mrs H complained to our service.
Once Mrs Hs complaint was with us, Argos provided us with further information including a 
record of a telephone conversation it has had with Mrs H in July 2021. Its records show that 
Mrs H told it she was not going to use her computer to make an application online as she 
uses her computer for work, specifically she runs her business online. She suggested if she 
also used her computer to make an online application then she would be mixing personal 
and business issues and she was not prepared to do this. Moreover, she suggested that it 
was inconvenient for her to go to a store in person because she did not have the time, the 
parking was murder and the nearest store was about 11 miles away. According to its 
records Mrs H did not mention her disability in the call neither did it have any record of her 
disability elsewhere in her account records.
We asked Mrs H about this call. Mrs H told us she does have a computer which she shares 
with her husband. However, sometimes he locks it and she does not always have the 
password. Further, she told us that she had other calls with Argos and in those other calls 
she would have told Argos she had a disability and that is why she would find it difficult to 
make an application in store. We asked Mrs H when she might have had these calls with 
Argos, so we could ask it if it had records of these calls because we had not received 
records of these other calls. And Argos had told us that it had sent us everything it had that 
related to this complaint. We suggested that if Mrs H could not remember the dates of the 
calls, she could perhaps find her phone records and send those to us. Mrs H declined this 
option because she told us she is too busy to do that. 
Further, Mrs H pointed out that she has accounts with the financial services arms of other 
major retailers. She uses these accounts infrequently, but those businesses have not closed 
her accounts. She suggested that Argos has acted unfairly therefore in taking a different 
approach to these companies.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Hs complaint. Our investigator did not recommend 
that Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld.
Mrs H rejected our investigators recommendation. She reiterated the points she had made 
before. Therefore, I was asked to take a fresh look at Mrs Hs complaint.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H is unhappy that Argos failed to renew her card when it expired and closed her 
account. As I have already mentioned, Mrs H suggests that this was unfair and likely to have 
been done because of her age. She suggests therefore that Argos discriminated against her. 
Mrs H has mentioned her right to be protected from discrimination by reason of her age. 
Further, she also suggests that Argos ought to have offered her an alternative means for 
opening a new account because she needed this due to her disability. Because it did not, 
she also suggests Argos has breached her rights in this instance too.
When Mrs H talks about her rights she is specifically talking about the protection she may be 
entitled to under the Equality Act 2010. Its not our role to say whether a business has acted 
unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the Courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. In order to decide that, however, we have to take a 
number of things into account including relevant law and what we consider to have been 
good industry practice at the time. So, although its for the Courts to say whether or not 
Argos has breached the Equality Act 2010, were required to take the Equality Act 2010 into 
account, if its relevant, amongst other things when deciding what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of the complaint.
In particular, the Equality Act 2010 provides protection to people who have certain protected 
characteristics. It sets out the personal characteristics that are protected by the law and the 
behaviour which is unlawful. The protected characteristics under the Equality Act 2010 
include age. Therefore, if Argos had closed Mrs Hs account due to her reaching a certain 
age, I would say it was fair and reasonable to hold Argos to account for this and ask it to put 
things right.
But the parties dont agree about why the account was closed.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
It seems like both parties do agree that the last purchase Mrs H made using her card was in 
May 2018. It seems they also agree that the last payment Mrs H made to the card was in 
February 2020. It appears from Argoss records, and I have no reason to doubt what it says 
on this point Mrs Hs card expired on July 2021 and it took the decision not to renew her 
card. Argos tells us this was because of its policy of closing accounts that had been inactive 
for 12 months or more. And it appears that Mrs Hs account fitted this criteria. However, Mrs 
H disagrees that this was the reason why her card was not renewed. Rather, her position is 
that the card was not renewed because she is an older person and Argos does not want 
older customers because of the commercial risk it thinks they present.
Argos has sent us the terms and conditions for the account it tells us clause 10 is relevant. 
Clause 10 says:
10 If you do not use your account
We may end this agreement and close your account (by providing two months written 
notice), cancel or suspend your right to use your account and/or reduce your credit limit if it 
has been dormant, meaning there have been no purchases or there has been no balance 
owed to us for at least 6 months.
Argos talked about a minimum cut-off point of 12 months in its final response and the terms 
and conditions mention a 6 month time period. In the terms and conditions there is nothing about not renewing expired cards. I think this is a little confusing because the Argoss final 
response says:
As a company, we have, therefore, taken the decision not to reissue any new Argos Cards 
to any accounts that have been inactive for 12 months or more.
So, it appears that Argos took one approach when it was closing an account before the card 
expired and another approach when deciding whether to renew a card when it expired. But 
in the circumstances, I am satisfied that Argos did have a policy of closing accounts where 
they were inactive. Moreover, it appears that this rule applied to all account holders 
regardless of age. 
I note that the terms and conditions talk about giving two months written notice. As far as I 
am aware Argos did not give Mrs H this notice. Although in this instance Argos closed the 
account in the sense that when the card came up for renewal, July 2021 it chose not to 
renew it. It is not clear that it had to give the two months notice in this scenario as clause 10 
seems to apply to when an account is going to close prematurely rather than when the card 
associated with the account expires at its normal expiration date, as I have already 
mentioned.
I recognise that Mrs H says that Argos has discriminated against her due to her age and that 
is why it did not renew her card. And it is regrettable that some of Mrs Hs friends have told 
her about experiencing this. I can understand why she would find this objectionable. But 
having looked at all the information I have available to me, I dont think Argos has done so. I 
hope it helps Mrs H to know that someone impartial has looked at her concerns.
I have taken on board what Mrs H says about how other companies have behaved, in that 
even though she does not use her accounts with them frequently they have not chosen to 
close her accounts for this reason. But just because other businesses have behaved like this 
does not mean that Argos has to as well. Argos gets to make commercial decisions about 
how it operates its business. We dont intervene if businesses are operating fairly. And Im 
satisfied this is the case here.
I regret to hear that Argos made Mrs H feel like it thought she was a bad credit risk. 
However, it has not refused her credit. Rather, it declined to re-open account, but it did not 
cite her credit score as the reason for this. Further it invited her to apply for new credit. So, 
whilst I dont doubt the sincerity of Mrs Hs feelings, I cant fairly or reasonably hold Argos 
responsible for this.
For all of these reasons I dont I think Argos has acted unfairly or unreasonably in relation to 
this part of Mrs Hs complaint.
In addition, Mrs H has suggested that Argos has treated her unfairly when it comes to the 
routes it has suggested she take to open a new account. In particular, she suggests that the 
Equality Act 2010 places Argos under a duty to make reasonable adjustments to ensure that 
disabled people can access its services. This is a duty that goes beyond simply avoiding 
discrimination. Rather, it requires Argos to anticipate the needs of potential disabled 
customers for reasonable adjustments, as well as to take on board specific requests for 
reasonable adjustments made by customers with a disability. The aim being, (so far as is 
reasonably practicable), to approximate the access enjoyed by disabled people to that 
enjoyed by the rest of the public.
Mrs H suggests that she has a disability that fits the definition of disability under the 
Equality Act 2010 and she should therefore benefit from this provision.
However, I dont think I do need to go into the question of reasonable adjustments and the 
relevant definition of disability in this decision. I say this because it seems that Mrs H has the 
use of a computer which she uses online. She runs her business online from the information 
I have seen. Therefore, it seems she could have used the online application route to open a 
new account. But she chose not to do this.  That was her choice to make, but nothing I have seen suggests she made this decision because her disability prevented her making an 
online application or made it difficult for her to do so. Rather she declined this option for 
reasons of personal preference. That being so, in the circumstances, I think I have no proper 
grounds for saying that Argos acted unfairly or unreasonably.
I also dont think I have to look at whether Argos acted appropriately in suggesting that Mrs 
H might go to a store to open a new account. I say this because this was not the only option 
offered. And I have already found that Argos acted reasonably and fairly when offering the 
online application route.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman