DRN-4446672
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy that Santander UK PLC declined a £30 purchase she attempted to make 
on two occasions.
What happened
Ms C tried to make a £30 purchase, but it was declined by Santander, even though Ms C 
had enough money in her account to cover the purchase. Ms C tried to make the purchase 
again a short while later, but again it was declined by Santander. Ms C wasnt happy about 
this, so she raised a complaint.
Santander looked at Ms Cs complaint and explained that the purchase attempts were 
declined because they were sent through as recurring payments, which arent permitted on 
the type of account that Ms C holds. Ms C wasnt satisfied with Santanders explanation, and 
she confirmed that both purchases attempts had been made as one-off purchases, and not 
as recurring transactions. So, she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Santander had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Ms C 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In instances such as this, where the positions of the complainant and the respondent 
business sit in contradiction with one another, I must decide which of the two versions of 
events I feel is most likely to have taken place, on balance, and in consideration of all the 
information available to me.
Ms C has explained that it wasnt the case that the purchase attempts in question were 
made as recurring transactions, which she understands arent permitted on the type of 
account she holds with Santander. And shes provided an email from the merchant in 
question which states that the purchases werent attempted as recurring purchases and so 
shouldnt have been declined by Santander.
But Santander have provided screenshots of their own systems which show that the 
purchases in question were described to Santander as being recurring transactions. And, 
ultimately, I find the evidence provided by Santander to be persuasive here.
I reach this position because Im satisfied that Santander did receive information that 
indicated the purchases were being made as recurring transactions. And I feel its more likely 
than not, on balance, and in consideration of all the information available, that any error here 
regarding the purchase information that Santander acted upon is likely to have been made 
by the merchant and not by Santander
I note from the transaction list for Ms Cs account surrounding the time of the purchases that 
Santander didnt incorrectly ascribe any other purchases that Ms C made as being recurring 
transactions, as I feel would be expected if the error lay with Santander. Rather, the only 
purchases described as being recurring transactions were the purchases Ms C attempted 
from the specific merchant in question. And I feel that this means its more likely than not that 
either the purchases were submitted as being recurring transactions, or that any error in the 
purchase information originated with the merchant.
I realise this wont be the outcome Ms C was wanting, but it follows that I wont be upholding 
this complaint against Santander or instructing them to take any further or alternative action 
here. I hope that Ms C will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman