DRN-1501939
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) handled 
their car insurance claim unfairly.
What happened
Mr D holds a car insurance policy with LV, on which Mrs D is a named driver. In June 2019, 
he notified a claim on the policy. He reported that hed been stationary in a car park when 
another driver (the third party) had reversed into him, damaging his car but not theirs. He 
said theyd admitted they hadn't seen him before reversing.
LV covered Mr Ds car repairs, then contacted the third partys insurer (TPI) to try to 
recover its costs. But the TPI said that, according to the third party, it was Mr D whod 
reversed into them. LV asked Mr D if he had any evidence to support his claim. He provided 
a photograph of his damage from the scene, as well as one of the third partys car after it 
had pulled into a parking bay. LV then reached an agreement with the TPI to each pay half 
of his repair costs  meaning the incident was recorded as a fault claim.
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with the settlement. They said Mr D wasn't liable for the 
accident  and questioned why LV hadn't sought CCTV and witnesses to support him. LV 
said it was entitled to settle the claim as it saw fit. As it was largely Mr Ds word against that 
of the third party, it hadn't managed to recover all its costs. LV also said it was down to Mr D 
to provide details of witnesses and CCTV. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs D referred the matter to our service. They said they 
wouldn't have claimed if theyd known it might be settled on a 50/50 basis. Our investigator 
was satisfied with how LV considered and settled the claim. And he wasn't persuaded Mr D 
wouldve acted differently if hed been given more information about the process at the 
outset. He also provided details from LV about how they could buy back the claim if they 
wanted it to stop it being recorded as a fault claim.
Mr and Mrs D didn't accept this outcome. They said they shouldn't have to pay to get the 
fault claim removed. They also wanted to check for CCTV evidence  which they maintained 
should have been sought by LV. Our investigator set them a deadline for this. This has now 
elapsed, and no CCTV evidence has been provided. So, Im now making the final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions our investigator reached. Ill explain why.
Its not my role to determine whos liable for the car accident itself  if necessary, that would 
be for a court to decide. What Im considering is whether LV dealt with Mr Ds claim fairly, 
reasonably, and in line with the terms of the policy. Section 12.4 of the policy terms  Accident and claims procedure  makes it clear that LV 
is entitled to settle claims as it sees fit:  
Were entitled to: have total control to conduct, defend and settle any claim
So, Im satisfied LV was within its contractual rights to settle the claim as it did. Ive gone on 
to consider the steps LV took and the information that was available  to see if the decision 
was also fair and reasonable.
LV attempted to fully recover its costs from the TPI. But there was a conflict between Mr Ds 
testimony and that of the third party about who was stationary and who was reversing. LV 
asked Mr D for supporting evidence. Although he provided photographs, these dont show 
what position the cars were in when the accident occurred. So Im not persuaded they had 
much bearing on LVs ability to recover its costs  as they dont substantiate his account 
over that of the third party. This is regardless of his point about any damage to the third 
partys car  who wasn't claiming for any repair costs. 
Mr and Mrs D have questioned why LV didn't seek out CCTV and witnesses. But it did ask 
him about witnesses and other supporting evidence at the time. I havent seen anything to 
suggest he made them aware of potential witnesses or CCTV. So, Im satisfied it was 
reasonable for LV to proceed based on the information it had.    
At this point, with the TPI disagreeing to fully cover the costs, LV could have taken legal 
action. It wasn't obliged to  as it had control over the conducting and settling of the claim. 
Id consider it reasonable for LV to make a commercial decision about this, thinking 
proportionately about the cost of the claim against the likely litigation costs.
LV has explained that, given the lack of independent evidence to support either position, it 
wasn't convinced that legal action would yield a better result than the 50/50 settlement it 
reached. Given the potential cost implications of legal action alongside the size of the claim 
and the available evidence, Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for LV to settle the claim 
as it did. I note this was done on a without prejudice basis  i.e. without an admission of 
liability. That means Mr and Mrs D can still pursue the matter at their own cost if they want. 
Mr and Mrs D say they wouldn't have claimed if theyd realised a fault outcome was 
possible. Theyve mentioned the potential impact on future premiums as a factor affecting 
this decision. Im satisfied it was explained during the call that the accident could affect 
future premiums  regardless of whether they claimed, or how a claim was settled. And they 
were always required to report the accident to LV. Section 12.4 of the policy terms says:
You or any other person driving under this insurance must: given us full details of any 
accident as soon as possible 
That said, I do think LV couldve been clearer about the possibility it might settle the claim on 
a fault basis (which doesn't mean Mr D has been found at fault for the accident  it just 
means LV couldn't recover all its costs). Ive thought about the likely impact of this. Mr D 
made it clear at the time that he wasn't willing to pay for the repairs. And theyve declined to 
buy back the claim to stop it being recorded as a fault claim. So, even if the settlement 
possibilities had been made more explicit, Im not persuaded this would have affected their 
decision to claim. In claiming, theyve benefitted from having the repairs covered. I note that 
LV also waived the policy excess, and  outside its normal process  hasn't reduced Mr Ds 
No Claims Discount.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs D, who clearly feel strongly about the 
accident. But, based on what Ive seen, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman