The complaint
Mr A says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy alongside a credit card.
What happened
In January 2002 Mr A applied for a credit card. At the same time, PPI was added to the 
account. The cost of the PPI was charged to the card, so Mr A repaid this extra charge, with 
interest, in line with the terms and conditions of the account. Mr A says the PPI was mis-
sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. Mr A doesn't 
agree. The complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As case.
I've decided the PPI wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first considered whether Mr A chose to buy the policy.
Bank of Scotland has sent us a copy of the application form for the card. I see there was a 
separate section of this application headed "Credit Card Repayments Insurance (maximum 
age limit 65)" which Mr A needed to complete if he wanted to buy the PPI. There's a box 
labelled "Yes", which has been ticked. There's another box labelled "No" which is not ticked. 
Based on what I've seen, I think it's most likely Mr A knew he had a choice to buy the PPI 
and chose to buy it.
Bank of Scotland says it recommended the policy to Mr A. That means it had to make sure 
the policy was right for him. Based on what I've seen of Mr A's circumstances, I think it was. 
Mr A doesn't appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy didn't cover. 
He's told us he wouldn't get any pay from his employer if he was off work sick - and he didn't 
have any other savings or other ways of making his repayments if he was off work sick or 
had been made redundant. So it looks as though he had a need for the cover.
It's possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr A about the policy wasn't as clear as it 
should have been. But Mr A selected the PPI - so it looks as though he wanted this type of 
cover. It seems it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like 
DRN-1125171it was affordable. So I don't think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.
This means Bank of Scotland doesn't need to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr A because: 
 Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50%
of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr A about that. Because Bank of
Scotland didnt tell Mr A, that was unfair.
 To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this
case.
I've thought about the other points Mr A has raised. But these points don't change my 
conclusions.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold, so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
don't award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2020.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman