DRN-1295575
Complaint
Ms T says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. The policy was taken out in 1998 when Ms T applied for a 
credit card. 
She says she was mis-sold the policy because she has no recollection of ever discussing or 
agreeing to it.
Background
One of our adjudicators assessed this case and told Ms T it shouldnt be upheld. But she 
disagreed and the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ts complaint.
Weve seen a number of similar cases to this and have spoken to Halifax about its sales 
procedures from that time. Consequently, we now have a good understanding of how the 
sales were usually carried out and the information consumers were typically given. Ive used 
this knowledge  and also what both parties have told us  in determining this case.
Records show this sale took place in a face-to-face meeting in a Halifax branch. From what 
we know about this method of sale, we think there would have most likely been a discussion 
about the policy and some general information given about it before consumers were then 
asked to sign a credit agreement.
Ive looked at the original credit agreement Ms T signed and I can see theres a section on it 
for credit card repayment insurance. Overall I think it presents the PPI as optional and its 
indicated on the form that Ms T wanted to take out the PPI cover. Theres an x placed in the 
relevant box to agree to the PPI, which I think would have been put in there as a result of the 
discussion Ive mentioned above.
It doesnt look like Ms T had the PPI for very long at all, but her credit card statements would 
have shown any premiums she paid. I think if she hadnt wanted the cover, she would have 
asked what the payments were for. So I think all this shows Ms T agreed to buy the PPI 
cover and would have been able to see it had been set up. Given it was 22 years ago, I can 
understand she might not remember any of this now.
Halifax has conceded that it probably advised Ms T when she took out the PPI and so it 
would have been under an obligation to make sure the policy was suitable for her. Ive 
looked at her age, job, health and circumstances at the time to help me decide this.I think Ms T was eligible for the PPI and I dont think that shed have been caught by any of 
the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. The monthly cost of the policy was 
78p per £100 of the outstanding balance which was comparable with similar policies I know 
were sold around that time. Ive got no evidence to suggest this was unaffordable for Ms T. 
Ms T told us she already enjoyed good sickness protection with her job, implying she didnt 
need the PPI. I completely understand this. But it doesn't necessarily mean the PPI wasnt 
suitable. Policies like this are designed to remove the added pressure of paying credit card 
balances in financially difficult times and in the event of a successful claim it could have paid 
10% of Ms Ts outstanding balance for up to 12 months. This would have been in addition to 
any other benefits she already had. 
So overall, I dont think the recommendation to have PPI was an unreasonable one. I think 
the policy was suitable for Ms T.
Halifax also needed to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading so Ms T 
could make an informed choice as to whether she should buy the policy. Ive already said 
that Ms T would have most likely discussed the cost with Halifax. But after such a long time, 
I simply cant say for sure whether she was told everything she should have been told. 
But even if Halifax had provided more or better information, I dont think this would have 
made any difference to whether or not she still would have bought the policy. This is 
because I think she agreed to the policy and I think it was suitable for her in the ways Ive 
outlined above. I'm very sorry to disappoint Ms T.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ts complaint. And I dont direct 
Bank of Scotland Plc to do anything to put matters right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman