DRN-3060158
The complaint
 Mr N complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) put a default on his credit file whilst 
his account was on hold .He would like the default removed and his account reinstated.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree the conclusion reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:-
Its unfortunate that the relevant phone call between Mr  N and Sainsburys isnt 
available to listen to.The transcript of the call finishes with  agreed 30 day hold to call 
back, Adv of letters. Sainsburys says that adv of letters would mean that its adviser 
told Mr N that letters , including notice of sums in arrears and a default notice would 
still be sent. But I dont think thats clear from the transcript. If the adviser just said 
letters would continue to be sent, I dont think Mr N would have necessarily realised 
what these would be. I think is should have been made clear  the account was now 
defaulting. But from the transcript its not clear Mr N was told this. I think Mr Ns 
conclusion that he had a month to try to sort his account out was incorrect ,but not an  
unreasonable conclusion to come to in the circumstances.
Sainsburys has evidenced it sent the default notice the same day it spoke to Mr N. I 
dont know why Mr N didnt get the letter. However even if he did I think he would 
have found it contradicted his understanding from the phone call. I think its not 
unreasonable for him to have given more weight to a conversation with a member of 
staff than to a letter sent the same day of his phone call.
I dont think Sainsburys were wrong to default the account when it did as Mr N had 
been behind with payments for several months and its important that credit files 
accurately reflect account history. So, I cant reasonably ask Sainsburys to remove 
the default. But I think Sainsburys caused some distress and inconvenience as I 
think Mr N  genuinely believed he had a month  to try to make good his account. I 
think  the £100 compensation our investigator suggested is fair
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Sainsburys bank Plc should pay Mr N £100 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman