DRN-3983268
The complaint
Miss K says Lycetts Financial Services Limited (LFS) failed to advise her to switch her 
personal pensions into her defined benefit (DB) pension scheme when she had the 
opportunity to do so. She says this has caused her financial detriment.
What happened
The background to this complaint isnt in dispute. In summary, in 2017 Miss K engaged LFS 
to provide her with advice about her pension arrangements and retirement planning. An 
objective she had was to retire in 2041 with an annual income of around £18,000.
At the time of the advice Miss K worked for a university. She told LFS shed started working 
there in June 2017 and that she had the option to move her personal pensions into its DB 
scheme - effectively buying added benefits.
LFS wrote to the university about her intention to switch pensions and it obtained estimates 
of what level of scheme benefits her existing pension funds could buy. In September 2017 
the university suggested that based on total funds of around £69,500, she might be able to 
secure an additional fixed pension at her normal retirement age of about £14,360 per 
annum.
In May 2018 LFS recommended that Miss K switched her two personal pensions, which 
together were worth around £73,000 into a Royal London Pension Portfolio plan. It 
recommended she invested her funds in line with her assessed appetite for risk. Miss K 
accepted LFSs recommendations and the new plan was established.
By March 2021 Miss K had become concerned LFSs advice hadnt been suitable, so she 
wrote to it complaining. She said she thought it shouldve advised her to switch her previous 
personal pension funds into the universitys DB scheme. She still hadnt received a response 
to her complaint by July 2021 and so she contacted this Service.
LFS explained that it was late in responding to Miss K because it had been trying to get 
information from the administrator of her universitys DB scheme. But this wasnt 
forthcoming.
Ultimately, LFS decided that it would be upholding Miss Ks complaint, as it shouldve 
advised her to switch her existing personal pension funds into the scheme. In the absence of 
the information it had requested from her former DB scheme it formulated an offer which it 
said showed that she hadnt lost out because of what it had done. It also offered her £250 for 
the trouble and upset it had caused.
An Investigator considered LFSs offer and concluded it was reasonable.
Miss K disagreed, for example she considered the projections used by LFS for fund growth 
of her personal pension were unrealistic. This was important because the calculations were 
used to compare with the estimated benefits shed have received from the DB scheme.
LFS said its calculations were reasonable given long-term historic patterns of growth for her 
portfolio and it noted it had made certain assumptions, such as adding in ongoing costs of 
advice under her existing arrangement, which she didnt pay for, which meant its calculations 
had been weighted in her favour.
Both parties are in broad agreement about what happened and the impact of LFSs failings 
on Miss K. But they havent been able to bring matters to an agreement on redress and so 
her complaint was passed to me to review afresh. 
I issued my provisional decision earlier this month. Miss K provided further evidence in 
relation to her former DB scheme. Ive received no other submissions and therefore see no 
reason to depart from my initial assessment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Miss Ks complaint.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by LFS for Miss K. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
The Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like LFS. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Miss Ks complaint.
Ive reviewed the evidence in this case and agree with LFSs conclusion to uphold Miss Ks 
complaint.
So all that remains is to set out what would be fair redress in this case, and the approach to 
take, so that matters can be brought to a conclusion.
Putting things right
The aim of redress is to put Miss K, as close as reasonably possible, into the position she 
wouldve been in now but for Lycetts Financial Services Limiteds failings. Its accepted she 
wouldve switched her personal pension plan funds into her university DB scheme and 
bought more benefits from that.
This isnt a situation where Miss K has been provided with unsuitable advice to transfer out 
of her DB scheme. But Im mindful the situation shes found herself in is analogous to where 
firms have failed to advise clients not to buy added years from an employer pension scheme 
when this was available.I understand Miss K left her employment at the university in question with less than two 
years of service, triggering a refund of her contributions and ending any future entitlement to 
benefits under the scheme. But had she switched her personal pension funds into the DB 
arrangement in 2018, shed have been entitled to remain in the scheme with deferred rights. 
I can see LFS will need evidence of all these matters, elements of which she has recently 
provided to this Service.
I recognise LFS has been hampered by the administrator of Miss Ks former DB scheme in 
trying to obtain other information about the scheme and her rights under it, which it clearly 
needs in order to conduct a proper assessment of any loss. Any leverage she can also bring 
to bear on the scheme to ensure LFS is able to access such will be helpful.
Allowing for the proper gathering of necessary information by LFS, I consider a fair and 
reasonable framework for Lycetts Financial Services Limited to use as a basis to undertake 
a potential loss calculation is the guidance set out by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) in its Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress 
for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on changes to this guidance and has 
set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf.
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Miss K whether she preferred any redress to be calculated now in 
line with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect. She would 
like her complaint to be settled in line with new guidance /rules. I consider its fair that 
Lycetts Financial Services Limited calculates Miss Ks redress in line with new guidance and 
rules when they come into effect.
The basic objective of the amendments to the redress methodology still remains to put a 
consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had advised 
appropriately with regard to the DB scheme. Having reviewed the FCAs consultation and 
policy statement, Im satisfied that the changes still reflect a fair way to compensate Miss K.
So, Lycetts Financial Services Limited should undertake a redress calculation taking into 
account the regulators FSAVC review methodology on an added years basis. This involves 
using, in part, the Pension Review methodology as updated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers.This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision along these lines, 
and using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance 
with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate 
provider promptly following receipt of notification of Miss Ks acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Miss Ks pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or appropriate, it should be paid directly to Miss K 
as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that wouldve 
otherwise been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% wouldve been taxed 
according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a 
notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Miss K within 90 days of Lycetts 
Financial Services Limited receiving notification of her acceptance of my final decision. This 
is subject to it receiving the necessary information from her former DB scheme administrator. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple for the time in excess of 90 days that it takes LFS to pay Miss K.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Lycetts Financial Services Limited 
deducts income tax from the interest, it should tell Miss K how much has been taken off. LFS 
should give her a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
In addition, Im satisfied the award of £250 made by Lycetts Financial Services Limited for 
the distress and inconvenience it caused Miss K is reasonable.
My final decision
Im upholding Miss Ks complaint for the reasons Ive set out. I now require Lycetts Financial 
Services Limited to put things right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman