DRN-2397287
The complaint
Mr T complains he was mis-sold a loan and an education programme for his children by a 
broker acting on behalf of 3J Finance Limited.
Background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings on it, can be found in my 
provisional decision dated 15 October 2020, the relevant text of which I have included below:
Mr T says he received a leaflet via his sons school in 2016 offering the services of a 
company I will call S, to help with Maths and English. He expressed an interest in 
learning more about what S could offer, and a representative visited his home on 15 
May 2016 to discuss this, following this up with another meeting which took place at Mr 
Ts home on 3 June 2016.
By the end of these meetings Mr T had purchased an educational programme offered 
by S, consisting of video maths lessons on DVDs, and access to a telephone support 
line and other related services provided by an associated company I will call X. It 
appears the representative was acting for both S and X during the sales process, and 
both these companies shared directors and were controlled by the same individuals. 
The total price of the programme was £3,050, of which £3,020 was paid for with a loan 
from 3J Finance which was arranged by the representative. The loan was interest free 
and was to run for 48 months, with repayments of £62.92 per month. Mr T says he and 
his wife had been hesitant to commit to the purchase, and when he noticed one of the 
documents he was asked to sign mentioned a short cancellation period, he sought 
reassurance from the salesperson that they could cancel a year or two later if his 
children were not interested. Mr T says he was told this was no problem, he would just 
need to speak to S or X.
Mr T says despite trying to encourage his children, they wouldnt engage with the 
programme. In late 2018 or early 2019, he hired a maths tutor instead and contacted X 
to cancel and stop his payments. X said he couldnt cancel and sent him a final 
response letter in March 2019 saying that the terms of the purchase had been made 
clear when hed agreed to it back in 2016. Mr T raised his concerns with 3J Finance at 
around the same time, and in April 2019 received a final response letter which was very 
similar to the one he had received
from X. In essence, it said that the terms of the purchase had been clear and Mr T had 
completed paperwork at the time to that effect.
In April 2019 Mr T asked this service to review the matter. A complaint was opened 
about X in its capacity as a credit broker, and one of our investigators looked into it. 
She thought it should be upheld. She reasoned that Mr Ts testimony about the 
reassurances given by the salesperson around cancellation was likely to be accurate, 
and that the loan and associated course had been mis-sold. X didnt agree, and it was 
arranged for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Before that could happen 
however, in March 2020 X went into administration and arrangements were made to 
continue the complaint against 3J Finance.
Initially, 3J Finance didnt agree that this service had jurisdiction to consider the 
complaint against it because it was being pursued more than six months after it had 
sent Mr T its final response in April 2019. Our investigator thought we did have 
jurisdiction to consider the complaint against 3J Finance, noting that the reason the 
complaint against them hadnt been pursued previously was due to the internal 
processes of this service. After our investigator explained this, 3J Finance outlined its 
position on the complaint, which was substantially the same as it had set out in its final 
response letter. Our investigator then came to the same conclusions that she had in the 
complaint against X, and for much the same reasons. 3J Finance disagreed, so the 
case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Due to the salesperson representing 
both S and X during the sales process, where I refer to S this should also be taken to 
mean X as well, unless otherwise stated.
Mr Ts complaint is that he was misled by the salesperson into believing the educational 
programme could be cancelled at a much later date if his children were not engaged 
with, or not interested in, the course. The present complaint is not against S however, 
its against 3J Finance, so I will outline first how it is that 3J Finance could be held 
responsible if S had misled Mr T into signing up for the programme and loan.
3J Finance didnt sell Mr T the programme or the loan, but it has some 
responsibilities to Mr T due to certain protections afforded to consumers by the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
The loan Mr R entered with 3J Finance is regulated by this act, and there are two 
sections of the act which provide him with some protection  section 56 and section 75.
There is no need for me to go into great detail about how these sections operate, but 
in summary section 56 has the effect of making S the agent of 3J Finance during the 
antecedent negotiations leading up to Mr T entering into the loan agreement, 
beginning with the first communication he received from S. In essence this means 3J 
Finance can be held responsible for the things S did or said during the sales process.
Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr T to hold 3J Finance liable for breaches of 
contract by S, or misrepresentations made by S in relation to the purchase of the 
educational programme.
The sales process and associated documents
3J Finance has provided a number of documents which it says were signed during the 
process of selling the programme to Mr T. The documents which appear to be most 
relevant to Mr Ts complaint are an enrolment form signed on 3 June 2016, a 
combined Pre-
Application to Purchase/Summary and Customer Clarification and Satisfaction Form 
signed on 15 May 2016 and then again on 3 June 2016; and a fixed sum loan 
agreement signed on 3 June 2016. Mr T hasnt said that these documents are not 
genuine or that he did not sign them, so Ive proceeded on the basis that these are documents he signed.
The enrolment form asked Mr T to confirm that he had received his right to cancel 
information. The Customer Clarification and Satisfaction Form effectively asked him to 
confirm this again by asking him to acknowledge that he had read the information in the 
Pre- Application to Purchase/Summary. This document was made up of five points, one 
of which said the following (emphasis in original):
I will have a short time to cancel my purchase (14 days from: the receipt of S 
materials purchased; the purchase date of related X services (if any); the confirmation 
of (or entering into) a related finance agreement) and further understand that there 
will be no trial periods and that later return of programme materials to S will not 
constitute cancellation of my purchase
Mr T initialled next to this point and signed below. The loan agreement said, in an 
information box, that he had the right to withdraw from the loan within 14 days of the 
agreement being made. However, if he did so he would need to repaythe total 
amount of credit without delay.
Its generally held that if someone has signed a document they are taken to have read 
and understood it. The longer of the points Ive quoted above could have been clearer, 
as it doesnt state whether all of the events listed needed to have happened to start 
the 14 day cancellation period, or just one of them. However, I think in most 
circumstances it would have left a reasonable person with the impression that they 
had 14 days to cancel their purchase. So the starting point for me here is that Mr T 
had understood and agreed that he would only have 14 days to cancel his purchase 
once he had received the DVDs and any associated materials from S.
Further observations on the sales process and the surrounding context
3J Finance has argued that because Mr T signed the documents Ive referred to above, 
this is effectively the end of the matter, but I dont necessarily agree with that 
assessment. While what has been set out in writing often represents what has been 
agreed between the relevant parties, in my experience it does not always reflect what 
was said during the conversations leading up to the contract being entered into. This is 
important, as it is during these verbal conversations where misunderstandings tend to 
occur, and sometimes these occur due to incorrect or false information being given.
As I referred to above, Mr T says he noticed the fact the contract mentioned a short 
cancellation period and sought assurance from the salesperson that he would be able 
to cancel later. He says he received this assurance and, on that basis, he agreed to go 
ahead. It is easy to come to the conclusion that this was such a significant promise that 
Mr T should have obtained this in writing so he could point to it in the event of a later 
dispute. Clearly he did not, and this fact doesnt help his case. However, there are 
some factors which weigh in his favour which I will come on to presently.
I dont think its an unimportant point that Mr T was introduced to S by his sons school. 
My understanding is that this was a common practice of S, so I have no doubt this is 
what happened here. Schools are trusted institutions, and I think a parent receiving an 
introduction to S from their childs school would view this as at least an implicit 
endorsement or recommendation. I think this would have made Mr T more likely to trust 
what he was being told by Ss salesperson.
Im also mindful of the fact that the Financial Conduct Authority  S and 3J Finances regulator  wrote to credit brokers earlier this year outlining some key risks for them to 
consider and act upon. The FCA said it had found firms brokering credit agreements 
with third party finance providers had poor oversight of staff, leaving sales practices 
unchecked and potentially increasing the risk of mis-selling, fraud or other poor 
consumer outcomes. It highlighted in particular brokers which sell products in 
consumers homes as presenting a higher risk of consumer harm, especially where 
sales took place without appropriate oversight and on a commission-basis. The FCA did 
not name individual firms, but Im mindful of the fact that Ss sale to Mr T fit at least 
some of the criteria the FCA identified as presenting a high risk of mis-selling: S 
brokered a credit agreement between Mr T and 3J Finance in order to sell him a 
product, in his home.
Additionally, our investigator discovered some information during the course of her 
enquiries, about the salesperson who had sold Mr T the loan and educational course. 
She found this person had been banned indefinitely from their previous profession. It 
would not be proper to go into detail about this, as my decision is published and 3J 
Finance has been provided with all the relevant information. In brief however, the 
salesperson was found to have been dishonest over an extended period of time for 
personal gain. This had included creating false documents and providing incorrect 
information. This had happened less than a year before S sold the loan and course to 
Mr T.
Im mindful of the fact that just because the salesperson had been dishonest in the past 
doesnt necessarily mean they would have been dishonest during the sale to Mr T. 
However, Ive thought carefully about this information when considering how much 
weight I should give to Mr Ts testimony about the assurances he was given regarding 
cancellation.
Finally, this is not the first time this service has seen a case involving the companies S 
or X. We have seen a number of cases where complainants have claimed they were 
advised by S or Xs salespeople that they could cancel the programme at any time, or 
that they were using it on a pay as you go basis.
There doesnt seem to have been anything connecting the complaints weve received, 
other than the fact the products in question were sold by S or X. While this does not 
mean salespeople routinely gave incorrect information, it suggests to me that 
misunderstandings may have occurred not infrequently during the sales process. The 
fact that S appears to have felt it necessary to include a clarification document as a 
standard part of its process, in my mind tends to reinforce this suggestion. I have also 
received information from S that it informally operated a longer cancellation period than 
the 14 days set out in its contracts. I can see the existence of official and unofficial 
cancellation periods of different lengths being a potential source of confusion during the 
sales process, and this again leads me towards a conclusion that misunderstandings 
were not uncommon. Again, this doesnt mean necessarily that Mr T must have been 
given incorrect information during the sales process. But its part of the overall 
background and context of the sale so Ive considered it, along with everything else Ive 
mentioned, when provisionally deciding what is most likely to have happened in Mr Ts 
case.
Overall conclusions regarding the sale to Mr T
Mr T says he was told that he would be able to cancel the programme a year or two 
after entering it. The actual position was that he could not cancel after 14 days had 
elapsed from when he had received the programme materials. The documents Mr T 
signed, although they could have been clearer, I think would have left him with an understanding that the cancellation period was 14 days.
However, Mr T has been consistent in claiming he had noticed the short cancellation 
period and sought assurances from the salesperson that he could cancel later, which he 
received. Having considered the evidence and the factors Ive outlined above very 
carefully, I accept Mr Ts testimony that he was given these verbal assurances. This 
means I think he was given incorrect information about his cancellation rights. Mr T 
doesnt appear to have wanted to have been tied in to a long contract, so I dont think 
hed have gone ahead if he had not been given this incorrect information.
Due to the operation of sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, Mr T can 
hold 3J Finance liable for the incorrect information provided by Ss salesperson. So it 
needs to do something to put things right.
Putting things right
As Ive said above, I dont think Mr T would have agreed to enter the contract for the 
educational programme and related services, had he not been given incorrect 
information. However, I understand his children used the programme for a time, so I 
think it is right that he pays something.
Its not clear to me what the current status of the loan is, but our investigator thought Mr 
T should pay up to the point at which he first tried to cancel, and I think this is broadly 
fair. I dont think Mr T should be responsible for any payments he was due to make after 
this point.
Im therefore minded to direct 3J Finance to take the following actions:
If 3J Finance has sold the debt then it must either buy the loan back from its 
current owner, or liaise with the current owner to achieve the steps outlined 
below.
Cap Mr Ts liability for the loan at the sum of the repayments which were due as 
of the date he first contacted either of X, S or 3J Finance to cancel. Anything 
above this amount must be written off and no longer pursued.
If Mr T has paid more than his capped liability, then any overpayments must be 
refunded to him, along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the 
date he made each overpayment, to the date he receives a refund.
If Mr T has paid less than his capped liability then an affordable repayment plan 
must be arranged for the outstanding balance up to the cap.
Remove any negative information relating to the loan from Mr Ts credit file, and 
mark it as settled from the first date he contacted either of X, S or 3J Finance 
to cancel. If Mr T has not paid up to his capped liability then 3J Finance does not 
need to mark the loan as settled until he has paid up to the cap.
Arrange with Mr T for the return of any course materials, DVDs and anything 
else he received under the contract, and the ending of any other services 
supplied under the contract.*HM Revenue & Customs requires 3J Finance to take tax off this interest. 3J Finance 
must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if Mr T asks for one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T replied to my provisional decision to say he agreed with it. 3J Finance initially said it 
intended to reply to the provisional decision, and would be doing so by 14 November 2020. 
However, 3J Finance has not, to my knowledge, replied to the provisional decision to date, 
and Im unable to wait indefinitely for their response.
Neither party to the case has put forward further submissions for me to consider. Having 
considered all the evidence and arguments again, I see no reason for me to depart from the 
findings set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold Mr Ts complaint for the 
same reasons given in quoted text from my provisional decision, and will be directing 3J 
Finance to take action to put things right.  
Putting things right
My directions to 3J Finance are the same as set out in my provisional decision quoted 
above, and for the same reasons:
3J Finance Limited must take the following actions:
If 3J Finance has sold the debt then it must either buy the loan back from its 
current owner, or liaise with the current owner to achieve the steps outlined 
below.
Cap Mr Ts liability for the loan at the sum of the repayments which were due as 
of the date he first contacted either of X, S or 3J Finance to cancel. Anything 
above this amount must be written off and no longer pursued.
If Mr T has paid more than his capped liability, then any overpayments must be 
refunded to him, along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date 
he made each overpayment, to the date he receives a refund.
If Mr T has paid less than his capped liability then an affordable repayment plan 
must be arranged for the outstanding balance up to the cap.
Remove any negative information relating to the loan from Mr Ts credit file, and 
mark it as settled from the first date he contacted either of X, S or 3J Finance to 
cancel. If Mr T has not paid up to his capped liability then 3J Finance does not 
need to mark the loan as settled until he has paid up to the cap.
Arrange with Mr T for the return of any course materials, DVDs and anything else 
he received under the contract, and the ending of any other services supplied 
under the contract.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 3J Finance to take tax off this interest. 3J Finance must 
give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if Mr T asks for one.  
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ts complaint and direct 3J Finance Limited to take 
the actions listed in the putting things right section of this final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman