DRN-3980583
The complaint
Miss K complains that she has been unable to withdraw the money she has on a PayrNet 
Limited pre-paid credit card.
Parts of this complaint concern the actions of the original card issuer and or the card 
administrator. PayrNet took over responsibility for this account from the original issuer and 
so any reference to PayrNet includes the actions of the original issuer, the card administrator 
and any other agents acting on their behalf.
What happened
Miss K took out a pre-paid credit card in November 2014 with an opening balance of £1505. 
Miss K originally had the card to take with her on a trip abroad that she was taking, but she 
didnt use it. When she returned from the trip, she put the card away and forgot about it.  
Miss K has an email confirming the balance was £1,505 in August 2015. The card expired 
on 1 December 2017.
PayrNets terms and conditions say:
13. When your card expires 
13.3 If your card has not been used in the eight weeks prior to its expiry date, you will 
be sent an email asking if you want to replace that card and keep any existing 
Account Balance on the account. If you request that we do this, you will be issued 
with a replacement card within two weeks. A replacement card fee may apply, as 
detailed in the summary box.
14 Redemption
14.1 You can redeem all or part of your balance by contacting us in ways described 
on the Website up until the date that is 6 years after the expiry date shown on your  
Card. We will transfer any redeemed funds into a bank account which is in your 
name. We may request proof from you of the account name.
At the time Miss K opened the account the website showed there to be no monthly fees 
dormancy fees associated with the card.
When Miss K was moving home in late 2020 and came across the card, prompting her to 
contact PayrNet to ask for a new card to be sent to her so she could use or withdraw the 
funds on the card.
PayrNet, say they issued replacement cards to Miss K on four occasions between January 
2021 and April 2021.However, she didnt receive any of these cards. Miss K complained to 
PayrNet  who offered £50 compensation and said they would escalate the matter to their 
technical team to investigate why Miss K wasnt receiving the cards that were being issued. 
Miss K wasnt satisfied with this answer so brought her complaint to this service.
PayrNet told this service they were unable to locate any funds in the account. They provided 
statements showing all transactions on the account  the only transaction other than account 
charges being on 29 February 2016 for a payment of £95.25. The statements did not show a 
running balance of the account and when pressed PayrNet said they couldnt offer any 
further information on this.
PayrNet began charging monthly inactivity fees from March 2018 until December 2020 
(although some months no fee seems to have been applied). The fees stopping coincided 
with Miss K contacting them to ask for a new card to be sent to her.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in summary he said:
He didnt agree the account balance could be zero based on reading the August 
2015 email in conjunction with the statements PayrNet had provided. He felt the 
balance before any fees had been applied was more likely to be £1,409.75
He felt it was more likely than not that PayrNet hadnt sent Miss K an email before 
her card was due to expire, as they hadnt been able to evidence, they had. But also, 
because he believed had they sent it, the email would have prompted Miss K to 
withdraw her funds, as she tried to when her memory was prompted in late 2020 
when coming across the card when moving. 
He didnt think it was fair for PayrNet to have applied monthly fees to the account 
because they started after the card had expired. Whereas had PayrNet acted within 
their terms and conditions and sent the email to Miss K when they should have its 
more likely than not Miss K would have closed the account before the fees began 
being charged.
PayrNet had caused Miss K undue trouble and upset when failing to issue her a new 
card to help her withdraw her funds, and he didnt think £50 was enough 
compensation for this.
He asked PayrNet to:
Refund Miss K £1,409.75 and to add 8% simple interest from the date the email 
notifying Miss K of the card expiry should have been sent.
Pay Miss K an additional £150 compensation on top of the £50 they had already 
offered.
PayrNet initially asked for extra time to consider the complaint, which was granted, as was a 
further extension. However, they failed to respond to the investigators findings and so the 
matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having read and considered the whole file, Ive reached the same outcome as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain, but in doing so Ill keep my 
comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not because I 
havent considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the 
right outcome.Card balance
PayrNets own terms and conditions say it will inform the customer of the expiration of the 
card if the card hasnt been used in the eight weeks prior to the expiration date. The card 
expired on 1 December 2017 and the only transaction had been from February 2016, so not 
within eight weeks of the expiration date. 
PayrNet have not been able to evidence they sent the required email. And Im persuaded 
that, had they sent it Miss K would have, more likely than not, acted to remove those funds 
or to renew the card and use the funds. I say this because when she did become aware of 
the forgotten card that is exactly what she did do.
PayrNet have not been able to provide any evidence to support what they have told us about 
there being a zero balance on the account. They have provided a brief statement with one 
transaction of £95.25 from 2016 and a number of monthly fees ranging from 99 pence to 
£1.99. Even added together all of these transactions do not account for the original balance 
of £1,505. The statements have no running account balance and PayrNet have said they 
arent able to provide one, so Im not persuaded by their argument that there is a zero 
balance. 
When Miss K opened the account, it was advertised as having no monthly fees and that 
dormancy was free. Ive relied on a screen shot of the website from the time for this 
information. Ive seen no evidence that Miss K was provided with any updated terms and 
conditions while having the account and so I think its reasonable to rely on what the website 
stated at the time. Based on this I dont think it was fair for PayrNet to have applied any 
monthly fees at all. Even if I did agree it was fair to apply the charges, which to be clear I 
dont, Im brought back to the fact that had PayrNet sent the expiration email as they should 
have, then the fees would never have been applied, as the account wouldnt have been 
inactive, because Miss K would have used the funds.
So, based on all the above, I think PayrNet should refund Miss K £1,409.75  this being the 
original balance of £1,505 minus the single transaction of £95.25 made in February 2016. 
They should also apply 8% simple interest to this from the date they should have sent the 
expiration email until the date of payment.
Service
Miss K tried on several occasions, across many months to get a replacement card to be able 
to access her funds. PayrNet didnt investigate why she wasnt receiving the cards with any 
vigour or try to resolve the situation for her by offering alternative solutions. Miss K complied 
with all of the requests to verify her address but was met with just being told another card 
would be issued. Even when she complained the matter was not resolved  she was told it 
would be escalated to a technical team and offered £50 in compensation for how long the 
matter was taking. But this didnt provide her with a viable solution as she still wasnt able to 
access her funds.
The whole matter was very frustrating for Miss K, all she wanted was to simply access her 
funds but had no way of doing so.
Because of this I think PayrNet should increase their compensation from the £50 they 
already offered to £200.
Putting things right
PayrNet should now :Refund Miss K £1,409.75 and to add 8% simple interest from the date the email 
notifying Miss K of the card expiry should have been sent.
Pay Miss K a total of £200 compensation. They are entitled to deduct any 
compensation they have already paid to her from this provided they can evidence the 
payment.
Her Majestys Revenue & Customs may require that PayrNet deduct tax from the interest paid to Miss K. If it 
does and Miss K requests it, PayrNet must provide her with a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off, 
so she may reclaim it if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and I require PayrNet Limited to carry 
out the actions as set out under the Putting things right section of this decision
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman