DRN-2320640
The complaint
Ms P complains that Canada Life Limited gave her unsuitable investment advice.
What happened
In 1996, Ms P received advice to invest £30 per month into a ten-year endowment savings 
plan which included life assurance. Ms P, through a representative, complained that this was 
unsuitable.
Canada Life agreed this wasnt a suitable investment. It said it was too high risk for Ms P 
and it compared what she received from this investment to what she wouldve received if 
shed invested in the Bank of England Fixed Rate Bonds at the time. It paid the difference 
plus 8% interest.
Ms Ps representative doesnt feel this is fair redress. It said that there was no evidence 
Ms P would want her money tied into anything. It suggested she may want to have used the 
money for marriage or a house deposit and said the redress should be to compare what 
Ms P received with what she wouldve received if the contributions were in an account 
awarding the Bank of England base rate plus 1%.
Our investigator felt Canada Life had offered fair redress and that it was in line with what this 
service would award. She explained that it wasnt known what Ms P wouldve done with her 
£30 per month but that it was clear she shouldnt have taken any risk so the redress offered 
was fair and reasonable and in line with Ms Ps attitude to risk.
Ms Ps representative disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its already been agreed by both parties that Canada Life mis-sold the original investment to 
Ms P. So, this decision focuses only on whether Canada Life has done enough to put things 
right.  And I think that it has, Ill explain why.
Ms P was 19 years old when she received advice, and the advice was for a regular savings 
plan. Ms P did keep her investment for 10 years. So, whilst it wasnt suitable for such a long-
term investment plan to have been recommended at the time, I dont think theres evidence 
to show she wanted instant access to her money. Ms Ps representative has said that she 
may have wanted the money for marriage or for a house deposit. As such, I dont think its 
unreasonable for Canada Life to have used the benchmark of the Bank of England Fixed 
Rate Bonds. And this is what I wouldve decided had Canada Life not already offered 
redress.
In summary Ms Ps representative hasnt shown us what Ms P wouldve done with her £30 
per month investment, so the redress Canada Life has offered is fair and reasonable and fits 
with Ms Ps risk profile and circumstances at the point of the advice.
My final decision
The offer Canada Life Limited has made is fair and reasonable so I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman