DRN-3543481
The complaint
Mr J complains that U K Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line)(UKI) hasnt settled his 
claim on his car insurance policy fairly.
What happened
Mr J claimed on his car insurance policy when a third party crashed into his car while it was 
parked. UKI said Mr Js car was a total loss. It made Mr J a settlement offer of £2,975, minus 
his policy excess of £300 (which I understand has now been paid).
Mr J wasnt happy with UKIs settlement. He said its valuation of his car didnt reflect the 
price hed have to pay to buy a similar one. When Mr J complained to UKI about this, it didnt 
uphold his complaint, saying its valuation was fair and accurate.
So Mr J brought his complaint to us. The investigator who looked at it didnt uphold it. He 
was satisfied UKI had given Mr J a fair market value for his car.
Mr J disagrees. Among other things, Mr J has sent us adverts for similar cars (all of them 
showing higher sale prices than UKIs settlement offer) to explain why he thinks his car is 
worth more than hes been offered. He says he wants UKI to pay him the cost of replacing 
his car with another of the same make and model and of similar age and condition at or near 
the time of the accident. He says this is exactly what hes entitled to under his policy.
So Mr Js complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr J, 
who strongly believes he hasnt been treated fairly. But I hope the reasons Im about to give 
help him to understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
Finding the market value for a car isnt an exact science. And its not my role to value Mr Js 
car. Its to decide if UKIs valuation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. We have 
a general approach to dealing with complaints about car valuations  details of which are on 
our website  and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Js complaint.
My starting point is Mr Js car insurance policy. This says if Mr Js car is damaged and UKI 
decides to settle his claim with a cash payment, the most itll pay is the market value of      
Mr Js car. And the policy says the market value is the cost of replacing Mr Js car with 
another of the same make and model and of a similar age and condition at the time of the 
accident or loss.
Our general approach to complaints about valuations is to look at the relevant trade guides 
for valuing second-hand cars. We find these are generally more reliable than the prices cars 
are advertised for. That's because the trade guides use extensive research of likely (though 
not actual) selling prices for cars, whereas the price a car is advertised for isn't necessarily 
the price its sold for. These guides dont have access to actual retail selling prices, but they 
use advertised prices and auction prices to work out what likely selling prices wouldve been.
UKI has shown us the valuations it got for Mr Js car from two of the trade guides. It says 
these were based on the cars mileage at the time of the accident. UKI also says Mr Js car 
was deemed to be in good retail condition, so no deductions were made. The valuations UKI 
got were between £2,162 and £2,975. UKIs settlement offer to Mr J of £2,975 therefore 
matched the higher valuation. Our investigator ran a valuation from the third trade guide we 
generally use when looking at car valuation complaints like Mr Js. This gave a retail 
transacted value for Mr Js car of £2,520.
From what Ive seen, I think UKI has followed the approach wed expect it to take in valuing 
Mr Js car. And I think UKIs offer to Mr J of £2,975  which is the highest of the valuations 
Ive seen  is fair and reasonable and in line with Mr Js policy terms and conditions.
I understand Mr J thinks our approach is unfair  and he supports his argument with the 
adverts Ive already mentioned, which show higher sale prices for similar cars. But the 
guides we and UKI have used are constantly updated based on current trends in the market 
and using nationwide data. So I find these the most persuasive evidence in deciding whether 
or not UKIs offer to settle Mr Js claim is a fair reflection of the cars market value 
Adverts, on the other hand, value only the specific car they relate to. And finding a like-for-
like car, of the same make, model, specification and condition as Mr Js car is extremely 
unlikely  as, indeed, I believe Mr J has found in his search for a new car. As Mr J has 
pointed out, current market conditions mean the values of second-hand cars are changing 
rapidly. But the three valuations weve got for Mr Js car are, I think, within a broadly similar 
range. So  bearing in mind the comments Ive already made about adverts  I dont think 
the information Ive got shows its likely the valuations from the guides are unfair or 
unreasonable. 
Mr J has also said he saw a similar car (he says it wasnt in quite as good condition as his 
car) that was actually sold (not advertised) for £3,300. Of course, I havent seen the specific 
details of this particular car. But this information, on its own and without anything else to 
back it up, isnt enough to displace my view that the guides give the most persuasive 
valuations in this case. 
So these  and the other comments Mr J has made, all of which Ive considered  dont 
change my view that UKI hasnt treated Mr J unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman