DRN-3645062
The complaint
Miss M complains that 1Plus1 Loans Limited (1Plus1) lent to her in an irresponsible 
manner.
What happened
Miss M was given a guarantor loan by 1Plus1 in July 2019. She borrowed £1,000 and 
agreed to repay this over 24 months. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2022. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
1Plus1 gathered some information from Miss M before it agreed to lend. It asked Miss M 
about her income and expenditure. It verified Miss Ms income by using an online tool. It 
carried out a credit check and used this to work out her credit commitments. It also looked at 
2 months worth of bank statements online. Those checks suggested Miss M had enough 
disposable income each month to afford the loan repayments. 
Miss M was agreeing to make monthly repayments for a period of 2 years. So, I think it is 
right that 1Plus1 wanted to gather, and independently check, some fairly detailed information 
about Miss Ms financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks 
it did were sufficient to achieve that aim. I think 1Plus1s checks were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. Those results might sometimes 
lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. Or, in some 
cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, Ive looked at 
what 1Plus1 gathered to see whether it needed to ask for more or whether it made a fair 
lending decision. 
I have looked at the credit search that 1Plus1 conducted. I dont think 1Plus1 had too much 
that ought to have been of concern from what was on the search. I can see that on the whole 
her active credit was being well managed and there were no arrears or court judgements 
recorded against her. There were 2 defaults registered against her name, but these were 
from 2016, a few years before her application. Miss M gave an explanation about why they 
were on her credit report to 1Plus1 too. 
Miss M told 1Plus1 during a phone call about her living expenses including her mortgage. It 
then used the credit search to see what she was committed to spending on existing credit. It 
assessed that Miss M had enough disposable income to afford the relatively small loan 
repayments. It then carried out a search of her bank statements and these checks came 
back and showed that Miss M could afford the repayments also, albeit the amount of 
disposable income stated was smaller. 
I think when I consider how much Miss Ms verified monthly income was, and how much 
1Plus1 had assessed her to have in disposable income both verbally with Miss M and 
through its own checks, I think the additional loan repayments here were affordable for her.
I appreciate that Miss Ms financial situation could have been worse than my assessment 
above might suggest. But I think that the checks 1Plus1 performed were proportionate and 
didnt suggest that Miss M was facing any problems in managing her finances. I think 1Plus1 
was also entitled to rely on what Miss M said about her finances as well as what it found out. 
And that information suggested that she would be able to sustainably afford the repayments 
on the loan. So, I dont currently think 1Plus1 was wrong to give the loan to Miss M.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. 1Plus1 said it agrees with the provisional decision. Miss M did 
not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment on or that will 
change the outcome of this complaint. So, because of this, I dont see any reason to depart 
from my findings within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I do not uphold 
Miss Ms complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 September 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman