DRN-3190406
The complaint
Miss K complains Marshmallow Financial Services Ltd unfairly cancelled her motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in 
detail here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for these reasons:
Its clear from the information Ive got Miss K was engaging with Marshmallow  and 
trying to provide the information they were asking for. Ive not seen anything to 
suggest she was deliberately avoiding any contact from Marshmallow.
Miss K asked Marshmallow to call her, before the policy was cancelled, but they 
didnt. Had they done so, this likely would have prevented the policy being cancelled.
Miss K says she thought Marshmallow were trying to defraud her as a result of not 
replying to her contacts. Because Marshmallow didnt handle things as they should 
have, Miss Ks policy was unfairly cancelled which is quite a significant failing. 
As Miss K was engaging with Marshmallow, and they failed to properly engage with 
her, Im satisfied its appropriate for the remaining premium to be waived along with 
any cancellation fees, and compensation to be paid  along with the cancellation 
being removed from her record.  
Putting things right
I require Marshmallow Financial Services Ltd to:
Waive any cancellation fees and remaining premium
Remove all records of a cancellation from internal and external databases against 
Miss Ks name so shes not required to declare shes had a cancellation  if this 
hasnt already been done
Pay Miss K £200 compensation for the distress caused to her.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Marshmallow Financial Services Ltd to carry out the 
actions in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman