DRN-3069389
The complaint
Mrs J is unhappy with Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plcs decision to avoid her household
insurance policy for misrepresentation. This was done following the submission of a claim.
What happened
Mrs J had a household insurance policy with Ecclesiastical. She said shes had the policy
since 2007, although it was arranged through an intermediary (a broker) and hadnt always
been with Ecclesiastical. It had been with them since 2017.
Unfortunately, Mrs Js property was burgled in February 2019. She submitted a claim for her
losses and during the investigation into that it came to light that she had a substantial
amount of jewellery and watches, valued at around £108,000, and was claiming for
approximately £85,000 in relation to those items. Mrs Js policy had a sum insured of
£15,000 for jewellery and watches.
Ecclesiastical said that when the policy renewed in January 2019, they asked Mrs Js broker
to ensure the sums insured were accurate. Explaining that if they werent, then the contract
could be invalid, and they may not be entitled to a refund of premiums.
Ecclesiastical said that in not providing an accurate sum insured Mrs J had misrepresented
the risk that they were covering. And they considered this to be a deliberate or reckless
qualifying misrepresentation. Ecclesiastical said if theyd known the true risk theyd have
charged more, and this meant they were entitled to avoid the insurance policy and keep the
premium. The result being that none of Mrs Js losses were covered.
Mrs J was unhappy with this so complained to Ecclesiastical. She said it was an honest
mistake and was not done for any gain on her part. She also said she thought the overall
policy cover of £157,726 was sufficient and hadnt been aware there was a separate sum
insured on jewellery and watches.
Mrs J argued that there had been no qualifying misrepresentation, or at worst only a
careless one. But Ecclesiastical didnt agree, so the matter was brought to our service.
An investigator here looked into Mrs Js complaint, he agreed with Mrs J that the
misrepresentation was only careless. And he said that meant her claim should be paid on a
proportionate basis.
Ecclesiastical still didnt agree. They said it was clear Mrs J wouldve known that £15,000
was insufficient cover for her jewellery and watches. And she ought to have known it was an
important factor to them. Ecclesiastical said that meant Mrs J either knew it was incorrect but
renewed the policy anyway, or did not care whether or not it was correct. Hence their 
conclusion that Mrs J either deliberately misled them or did so recklessly.
Agreement couldnt be reached on the matter, so it has been passed to me to decide.
I provisionally decided not to uphold Mrs Js complaint. I explained why as follows:
Ive thought very carefully about this case, Mrs J has incurred a very substantial loss and Im
sure the burglary alone would have been distressing. So Im sorry to have to say I dont think
Ecclesiastical has treated Mrs J unfairly. Ill explain why.
I very much appreciate that itll feel to her that this outcome is unfair, but I have to have
regard for the relevant law in this case, which is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to
make a misrepresentation when taking out, or renewing, a consumer insurance contract (a
policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to
be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Ecclesiastical say Mrs Js failure to give an accurate sum insured for jewellery and watches
was a qualifying misrepresentation. They would have charged more if theyd known the true
value and they wouldve applied additional terms in relation to keeping them in a safe.
Mrs J says the £15,000 cover for jewellery and watches wouldve been correct back in 2007
when she first took the policy. And that it had just renewed on the same level each year. But
theyd accumulated more jewellery and watches over the years. Mrs J also pointed out that
her policy had been renewed through a broker rather than her giving a revised figure each
year, so she said she hadnt actively misled anyone.
Ive looked at the renewal invitation that was sent to Mrs Js broker in 2019. Thats the most
important year because its the year that the claim fell in and the policy thats been avoided. I
can see that the letter said:
Check the renewal policy schedule and statement of facts carefully to ensure the details are
correct and fully reflect your clients current circumstances/requirements Please also
check the sums insured shown are still adequate for your clients current requirements
index linking is not applied to items of fine art, antiques, collectibles, jewellery or watches.
and;
This document must fully reflect your clients current circumstances. If the information is
incorrect or incomplete, the wrong terms may have been quoted and the insurer may be
entitled to reject or reduce payment on a claim. In certain circumstances your clients
insurance contract might be invalid and they may not be entitled to a refund of premium.
The insurance schedule said Mrs J had cover of £157,726 for unspecified contents. But on
another page, it had this broken down as follows:Contents (general) £137,726
Fine Art, Antiques & Collectables £5,000 (subject to a single article limit of £25,000)
Jewellery & Watches £15,000 (subject to a single article limit of £10,000)
Its important at this stage to say this case is against Ecclesiastical. Mrs J used an insurance
broker to help arrange and renew her policy. And that means if Mrs Js broker made a
mistake  I cant say whether they did  then that mistake would be their responsibility, not
Ecclesiasticals. And as the broker was acting for Mrs J, a misrepresentation by them would
be seen as a misrepresentation by her.
I dont know whether the broker contacted Mrs J in the manner which Ecclesiastical asked
them to, but I think the renewal letter was clear in what was required, as well as what might
happen if information is incorrect. And Ive seen an email from Mrs J which confirms receipt
of a renewal quote in 2019.
Overall, Im satisfied Ecclesiastical did what was required of them when asking Mrs J, via her
broker, to ensure the details were correct.
It therefore goes without saying that there was a qualifying misrepresentation, the
information provided to the insurer was wrong, Mrs Js requirements for jewellery and
watches cover were much greater than the £15,000 set out in the policy.
Ecclesiastical say Mrs Js misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless because she either
gave the figure dishonestly, or she didnt care whether or not it was correct  despite
knowing it would be an important factor to them. Ecclesiastical say that if theyd known the
true value of Mrs J and her familys jewellery and watches theyd have charged more to
reflect this.
Theyve also said an additional term would have been operative on the policy, in relation to
keeping the jewellery in an approved safe.
Mrs J has said variously that she didnt see this information and that it hadnt occurred to her
that it might need to be updated, the broker just renewed on the same terms each year.
Mrs J also said they hadnt realised the importance of this being correct and hadnt taken
much notice of the little details. And as explained, Mrs J said she felt the unspecified
contents cover was more than adequate.
But I think Ecclesiastical were entitled to consider the misrepresentation as deliberate or
reckless. Unfortunately, Mrs Js broker hasnt been able to provide much information about
what they did at renewal in 2019, although as Ive said, if they did something wrong  again,
I cant say whether they did or not  then that is not a relevant consideration for this case.
Nevertheless, Mrs Js broker has advised that when the policy was renewed in 2014 the
figure of £15,000 was discussed and was actually broken down as being £10,000 for Mrs J,
£2,000 for Mr J and £3,000 for their two children. Its worth me saying that what was given in
2014 doesnt affect what happened in 2019. Nor do I know how much jewellery and watches
the family had at that stage, but I think it shows Mrs J had an awareness of sums insured in
general.
Furthermore, Mrs Js broker has provided information showing that she engaged quite
specifically with her renewal in 2018. She asked what insurance premium tax was, whether
the legal expenses cover was included at an extra cost and said she didnt require the coverof £5,000 for paintings. This tells me that Mrs J was engaged in the renewal process that
year and I think its fair to say that was likely typical of her.
It's reasonable to assume the £5,000 for paintings is reference to Fine Art, Antiques and
Collectibles. So, if Mrs J had seen that, I think shed also have seen that the cover for
jewellery and watches was only £15,000. And I think its likely that was grossly inadequate if
the jewellery and watches had been accumulated over the years.
Like I said, I dont know exactly what happened in 2019 but I dont accept that Mrs J was
unaware of the little details of her cover. Im sure if she had been taking reasonable care and
giving more thought to the consequences, shed have made sure she had adequate cover in
place. But given the above, I dont think Ecclesiastical treating Mrs J as having been
deliberate or reckless was unfair.
Ecclesiastical made clear the importance of Mrs Js sums insured being correct, they also
made clear what might happen if they werent. Yet by not correcting this, Mrs J appears not
to have cared whether or not this information was accurate.
As Im satisfied Mrs Js misrepresentation can be treated as deliberate or reckless, Ive
looked at the actions Ecclesiastical can take in accordance with CIDRA. That says:
If a qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, the insurer-
(a) may avoid the contract and refuse all claims, and
(b) need not return any of the premiums paid, except to the extent (if any) that it 
would be unfair to the consumer to retain them.
CIDRA doesnt say what needs to be taken into account, in relation to whether or not it
would be unfair to a consumer to retain the premiums. I very much appreciate it will seem to
be unfair, particularly as a large loss was incurred with the burglary. But what Ive considered
is whether or not Mrs J will suffer greatly from Ecclesiastical keeping the premiums. Im not
aware of any reason why she would, so I dont think its unfair for them to keep them, as is
allowed for in CIDRA.
In closing, as I believe Ecclesiastical to have followed CIDRA I do not consider them to have
treated Mrs J unfairly.
Ecclesiastical replied to my provisional decision to say they were happy with it and had 
nothing further to raise.
Mrs Js representative did not agree with my provisional decision, raising a number of points 
for my consideration. Briefly, that documentation showed an unspecified contents cover of 
£157,726 on page two, and only on page eight was this broken down to show a sum insured 
of just £15,000 for jewellery and watches.
They felt Mrs J could be forgiven for not spotting that. And that she could also be forgiven for 
not understanding that the sum insured was a limit on all jewellery and watches. Mrs Js 
representative also gave reference to a legal case which they called Involnert v Aprilgrange 
[2015] The Galtea as a way of supporting their argument that Mrs J did not wilfully under-
insure.
And they said this case should simply be viewed as one of under-insurance rather than 
misrepresentation. They said it is not open for the insurer to avoid the entire policy and that if 
the sums insured are to apply as limits, payments should be made in accordance with those.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the matter further, including the points raised by Mrs Js representative, I 
maintain my decision that Ecclesiastical didnt treat Mrs J unfairly. Ill explain why.
I accept that the insurance schedule could have been clearer by showing the breakdown of 
cover and sums insured alongside the total sum insured on page two. But I dont think it was 
so unclear as to have likely confused Mrs J. It is evident from the prior years renewal that 
Mrs J had an awareness of the sums insured and she asked questions of her broker where 
things werent clear to her.
Furthermore, Mrs J used a broker to assist her with her insurance arrangements. The broker 
was asked to check the sums insured shown were still adequate for her requirements.
Mrs Js requirements were clearly far greater than £15,000 in respect of jewellery and 
watches. Mrs Js broker was also informed of the consequences if the information was 
incorrect. I believe it to be very unlikely that Mrs Js broker would have been unable to 
understand the policy terms, nor do I think it was beyond them to ensure adequate cover 
was in place.
As explained in my provisional decision, the broker was acting for Mrs J so a 
misrepresentation by them would be seen as a misrepresentation by her. I dont know 
exactly what happened during the renewal of Mrs Js policy in 2019. But it seems likely to me 
that either the broker didnt do what was required of them in the renewal invitation, or if they 
did, Mrs J took no heed of their advice.
That could be looked at separately though to be further informed, in this case my main 
consideration is whether Ecclesiastical did what was required of them. And if they acted 
fairly, following realisation of the misrepresentation.
In view of my findings, I think it was reasonable for Ecclesiastical to say Mrs J was deliberate 
or reckless  because she and/or her broker  gave the figure dishonestly, or they didnt 
care whether or not it was correct. That being in the knowledge of its importance, and being 
specifically asked to ensure the figures were adequate.
I appreciate the argument being made that Mrs J would not have wilfully underinsured, with 
no care one way or another for the consequences. I agree it could seem unlikely that 
someone would pay over £2,000 for a high net worth policy, but at the same time have no 
regard for whether or not the cover was sufficient. But that is where we have ended up, the 
questions were asked, the consequences of not answering them accurately were given, and 
yet still accurate answers werent given.
So, I still think Ecclesiastical were reasonable to conclude that Mrs J simply didnt care 
whether or not the policy provided adequate cover.
Turning to the legal case that Mrs Js representative asked me to consider. That didnt relate 
to CIDRA, so I dont think it is wholly relevant to this case. In any event, I believe the 
reference is to the part which said:
There had been no suggestion that the claimants failure to make disclosure had been 
deliberate or reckless. On the evidence, it had come about through inadvertence and, if 
attention had been given to the appropriate insured value, the claimant would probably have been content to insure the yacht for the same amount of €8m for which the yacht had been 
put up for sale.
It is worth stating that in the above the value of the yacht had actually been overstated, 
which is quite different to it being under-insured. I should also add that there is no test of 
inadvertence in CIDRA. And in the case of Mrs J, Ecclesiastical has suggested that she was 
either deliberate or reckless in her actions. Mrs J and her family had over £100,000 worth of 
jewellery and yet she did not ensure she had adequate cover in place for it  despite her 
broker being told to ensure she did. I can understand perhaps if Ecclesiastical did not give 
clear instructions, but they did.
And I dont think it can be said that misrepresentation cant be deliberate or reckless if its 
down to a lack of attention. If that were the case, there would be no need for CIDRA to 
include a category of deliberate or reckless. Because anyone could advance an argument 
that they just werent paying attention and if they had they would have made sure their cover 
was adequate. 
Of course, it can be said that Mrs J would surely have wanted adequate cover for her 
jewellery and watches and with hindsight Im sure almost any person in such circumstances 
would say the same. But it seems to me that Mrs J didnt care, because if she did, she would 
have ensured adequate cover was in place.
CIDRA says:
A qualifying misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless if the consumer
(a) knew that it was untrue or misleading, or did not care whether or not it was untrue 
or misleading, and
(b) knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the 
insurer, or did not care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer.
As explained, I believe Ecclesiastical has done enough to demonstrate the above to be a fair 
representation of what happened.
Mrs Js representative has said this should be viewed as a case of under-insurance rather 
than a matter of avoidance. But CIDRA says A failure by the consumer to comply with the 
insurers request to confirm or amend particulars previously given is capable of being a 
misrepresentation for the purposes of this Act, that is what has happened here and so I 
consider CIDRA to be relevant.
And given I think its reasonable for Ecclesiastical to treat Mrs J as having made a deliberate 
or reckless misrepresentation under CIDRA I also think they are entitled to apply the 
remedies set out in the Act. So, while I agree, they could have treated it as a case of under-
insurance, they didnt have to.
It is noted what Mrs Js representative has said about the additional term for jewellery and 
watches to be kept in a safe. But as the premium wouldve been greater the contract 
wouldnt have been offered on the same terms. And in any event, CIDRA allows for 
avoidance where a misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless. So that doesnt alter my 
conclusion.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, it is my final decision to not uphold Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman