DRN-4343600
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M have complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) 
unfairly declined a claim under a home insurance policy.
As Mr M mainly dealt with the claim and complaint, I will normally only refer to him.
What happened
Mr M contacted Lloyds to make a claim when a gun he owned was damaged. Lloyds 
declined the claim because it said it was being used for its normal purpose when it was 
damaged, which it said wasnt covered by the policy.
When Mr M complained, Lloyds maintained its decision to decline the claim. So, Mr M 
complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said Mr Ms 
explanation of what happened met the definition of accidental damage under the policy. She 
said Lloyds should accept the claim.
Lloyds said it was willing to consider the claim under the accidental damage part of the 
policy, but that it hadnt had the opportunity to validate the circumstances of the claim and 
the gun ownership. So, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 31 August 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
When Lloyds declined the claim, it did this following a conversation with Mr M in which he 
described how the gun was damaged. Lloyds decided that those circumstances werent 
covered by the policy. So, Ive thought about this.
Mr M told Lloyds explained that when he was loading the gun, it fell forward and landed in a 
trench snapping the barrel. Looking at the policy wording, it described accidental damage as:
damage thats sudden, unexpected and not done on purpose. There needs to be a
one-off specific event that caused the damage. For example, you drop your mobile
phone on the pavement and the screen cracks
However, it said damage as a result of normal use wasnt covered.
Lloyds declined to consider the claim because, having looked at what Mr M said about 
dropping the gun, it said the damage had happened as the result of normal use. Looking at 
the wording of the policy, I think its fair to say that what Mr M described was sudden, 
unexpected and not done on purpose. What Mr M said happened was also similar to the 
example Lloyds gave of a mobile phone being dropped, which Lloyds said was covered. So, 
I think Lloyds should consider the claim under the accidental damage part of the policy.
Im aware Lloyds has already told this service it will consider the claim under that part of the 
policy. However, it has said it should be able to validate the claim, rather than simply settling 
it. So, Ive also thought about this. From what Ive seen, when Lloyds spoke to Mr M and 
then declined to deal with the claim, it was considering whether there was cover under the 
policy at all, rather than, for example, considering whether an exclusion applied or there was 
some other reason not to cover the claim. It decided the policy didnt cover the 
circumstances described.
When Lloyds spoke to Mr M, it explained it would need to see items such as a cause of 
damage report. But it also said Mr M didnt need to provide the report at that time as it was 
looking at whether there was likely to be cover under the policy. It also said it would need to 
see things like Mr Ms gun licence.
So, in my view, even if Lloyds had agreed to consider the claim at that time, I think it was 
clear that it intended to look at the claim further before deciding whether it would settle it. Its 
a normal part of a claim for an insurer to validate it. In the circumstances, I think Lloyds 
should therefore have the opportunity to consider the claim further based on the terms and 
conditions of the policy before deciding whether to settle it.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 28 September 2023. Both parties responded before that date.
Lloyds said it had nothing further to add. 
Mr M said he had already sent a range of photos and reports to Lloyds. He said he had told 
Lloyds he couldnt take the rifle out on the street and Lloyds had then come up with all sorts 
of reasons not to pay out and said no to the claim shortly after it had been reported. Mr M 
said that because he had now been without the gun for five months, he was hoping for some 
compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my provisional decision. 
As part of that Ive thought about the comments from Mr M. I was aware Mr M had already 
provided documents and photos to Lloyds. However, I still think it was clear from how Lloyds 
dealt with the claim at the time that, even if had accepted it, it intended to investigate the 
claim further before deciding whether to settle. As I previously said, an insurer is entitled to 
validate a claim and to request further documents if these are necessary to do this.
Mr M has also said he would like compensation. I didnt say compensation needed to be 
paid in my provisional decision. As Mr M has said, Lloyds made its decision shortly after the 
claim was opened. It also seemed to try to reduce some of the inconvenience to Mr M at the 
time by only asking him to provide documents that were relevant to that part of the decision-
making process. Although Ive said Lloyds should consider the claim under the accidental 
damage part of the policy, it is doing so in order to decide whether it should settle it. In the 
circumstances, I dont think Lloyds needs to pay compensation.
Putting things right
Lloyds should consider the claim under the accidental damage part of the policy based on 
the terms and conditions of the policy.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to consider the claim 
under the accidental damage part of the policy based on the terms and conditions of the 
policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman