DRN-1588864
 The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out the PPI during the same branch meeting in 2000 in which they were 
arranging a further advance on their mortgage. Although it was a joint mortgage, the policy 
only covered Mr H for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Santander disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account when 
considering this case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Santander needed to make it clear that Mr and Mrs H had a choice about taking out PPI. 
Looking at a copy of the Secured Loan Application Form, there is a section for insurance. 
There is then a heading for Mortgage Payment Cover Insurance (which is the brand name 
for the PPI). There are then a number of options, the first one being: If you do not want to 
protect you Secured Loan payments against accident, sickness or unemployment, tick the 
box The box next to this statement has been ticked. So at this point in the process, Mr 
and Mrs H had clearly expressed that they did not want PPI. However, they did express an 
interest in having life and critical illness cover.
Ive also seen the Mortgage Interview Record Form. Under the heading Mortgage 
Protection, it details the plans purchased as Life & Living and explains that it is decreasing 
cover for an 11 year term. This is the life and critical illness policy that I can see that Mr and 
Mrs H had expressed an interest in. Had Mr and Mrs H decided to buy PPI, I would have 
expected that to also feature in this section of the form as a purchased plan.
The Mortgage Interview Record does contain wording that says: Mortgage Payment Cover 
Y/N and there is a circle around the Y. But this doesnt accord with any of the other 
information that has been recorded at the point of sale. From the available evidence, it 
appears that Mr and Mrs H said they didnt want PPI but somehow ended up with it anyway.
Santander has explained the usual process and says it is reasonable to assume that that 
must have happened in this case in order for the PPI to have been set up with the insurer. 
But it hasnt been able to provide any evidence of this. 
Mr and Mrs H were sent a PPI welcome pack the following month. But, in accordance with 
long held standards of good practice, documentation sent after the initial sale will not necessarily be sufficient to overcome any shortcomings of that sale. I consider that it was 
reasonable for Mr and Mrs H to rely on what they understood at the time of the meeting  
which is that they had declined PPI.
Based on the available evidence, I am unable to conclude that Mr and Mrs H were given a 
choice about buying the PPI. It therefore follows that I uphold the complaint.
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs H in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs H the amount they paid each month for the PPI
 
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
 
If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes Mr and Mrs H.  
 
Santander can deduct the amount it has already paid for unfair commission from the 
amount it owes Mr and Mrs H.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr and Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and require Santander UK Plc to pay 
fair compensation as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman