DRN-3786485
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV). He isnt 
happy about the way it dealt with a claim under his buildings insurance policy.  
For ease of reading any reference to LV includes the actions of its agents which it is 
responsible for.
 
What happened
Mr M made a claim under his building insurance policy after a flood at his home address in 
the basement. LV initially turned down the claim before agreeing to cash settle the claim. 
Mr M complained to LV and then this Service as he didnt think that LVs offer covered all the 
damage caused by the water ingress as the floor was still damp. And he didnt think its offer 
of compensation (£250) covered all the stress and inconvenience his family faced in dealing 
with the delay in finalising the claim.
When our Investigator looked into things for Mr M she upheld the complaint. She thought LV 
should revisit Mr Ms property and reconsider the ongoing damp issue. And it should 
establish if the problem is ongoing and provide an effective and lasting repair, even if this 
amounted to betterment. LV had offered to waive part of Mr Ms excess in acknowledgment 
of some of the delay it caused and the way it dealt with Mr Ms claim. But our Investigator 
thought that LV should offer a further £150 compensation, especially as the prolonged period 
of dampness affected his familys health. 
LV agreed to get its agent to revisit Mr Ms property and re-evaluate the claim and remaining 
damage subject to Mr M providing documentation from the time he purchased the property 
two or three years before in order to ensure the problem wasnt pre-existing. And it didnt 
think the compensation level should be increased.
As LV didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think that the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
LV has agreed the fair and reasonable thing to do is for it to instruct its agent to re-attend the 
property and test whether the concrete floor slab is still damp and undertake any further 
mitigation work deemed necessary. So I dont propose to go over this point in detail now. 
However, Mr M has explained that he actually bought the property in 2007 and that he 
doesnt have any pre-purchase surveys given the passage of time. And he states that in the 
15 years he has owned the property there has never been a problem with damp or water 
ingress in the basement until this incident happened. So, I dont think there is any suggestion 
the problem was pre-existing, and I wouldnt expect Mr M to have documentation given the 
sale took place in 2007.
Given this I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this 
case, is for LV to instruct its agent to re-attend Mr Ms property and produce a further report 
in relation to the ongoing damp issue and look to provide an effective and lasting repair to 
the problem. 
Turning to the compensation level I agree a further £150 compensation feels fair in the 
circumstances. Mr M and his family clearly faced a lot of stress and inconvenience here and 
the damp has affected the health of his family. It is unfortunate that a claim like this was 
always going to have an adverse effect on the family which LV isnt responsible for but its 
failure to look into the ongoing damp issue has clearly had an impact. So I agree a further 
£150 compensation (£400 total) feels fair. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Liverpool 
Victoria Insurance Company Limited to instruct its agent to re-attend Mr Ms property and 
produce a further report in relation to the ongoing damp issue and look to provide an 
effective and lasting repair to the problem. And to pay a further £150 compensation (£400 
total). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman