DRN-2214160
The complaint
Mr L complains that NewDay Ltd wont refund several disputed card transactions.
What happened
Mr L is disputing seven card payments to a club he visited whilst on holiday in Ukraine 
between 5 and 22 November 2019, totalling just under £1,500.
Mr L says he was on holiday with friends. They were going from place to place and visited 
the club for a meal, drinks and entertainment. Mr L has explained that he has visited the club 
on previous trips and usually went to the club every day. 
Mr L says whilst at the club he bought food and cocktails and tried to settle his bill using his 
NewDay bank card. Mr L says he tapped his card on the card terminal, but it didnt work. So, 
he inserted the card and entered his PIN. Mr L says he didnt see the display on the terminal 
and the staff member then walked away with his card and the card reader. The staff member 
then came back to Mr L and told him that his card had been declined. Mr L says the staff 
member was angry and he felt very embarrassed  especially as he was out with friends.
Mr L says the clubs security man then came over and told Mr L hed have to settle his bill in 
cash and warned him not to make a fuss otherwise hed call the manager over. So, Mr L 
settled his bill in cash, but he didnt get a receipt for the transactions.
Mr L says he went back to the club again, but each time he tried to pay his bill with his card, 
it declined, after hed put his card and PIN into a card machine. And each time he paid in 
cash.
Mr L said he wasnt able to check his bank account online whilst he was away due to 
problems with the internet connection. He checked his account online as soon as he got 
back to the UK and saw that four transactions had debited his account. On 12 November 
2019, he called NewDay and raised a fraud complaint. And asked NewDay for a refund. 
NewDay investigated and decided not to refund Mr L. It said, when Mr L had entered his 
card and PIN into the card machine, hed authorised the transactions. Mr L was very 
unhappy with NewDays response. He said hed been the victim of a cruel scam and the club 
was operating as a criminal enterprise ripping off English tourists. So, he decided to return to 
the Ukraine and visit the club in an attempt to expose what was happening and convince 
NewDay to refund him.
 
On 22 November 2019, Mr L went back to the club. Mr L says he had a meal and drinks in 
the club as hed done previously. He tried to pay using his NewDay card and entering his 
PIN, but the staff told him again that the transaction had been declined. Mr L says he felt 
threatened and intimidated, so he settled the bill in cash. 
On 26 November 2019, Mr L called NewDay and disputed three transactions hed made at 
the club on 22 November 2019. NewDay declined Mr Ls claim. It said it hadnt seen any 
evidence Mr Ls card had been declined, and hed authorised the transactions using his PIN. 
Unhappy with this response Mr L brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators considered it. The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. He said Mr L had 
authorised the transactions. 
Mr L disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that it wouldnt be fair to ask NewDay to refund 
the transactions and for much the same reasons.
 
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts, the transactions, and the 
evidence. Both Mr L and NewDay have read the investigators view. So, I wont repeat every 
detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. However, I can assure Mr L that 
Ive read the file, including his comments and evidence. And listened to all the relevant call 
recordings.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice and where 
appropriate what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
NewDay is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The relevant 
regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). But 
the bank can hold Mr L liable for any disputed transaction if the evidence suggests that its 
more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself.
Having reviewed NewDays technical evidence, Im satisfied that Mr Ls genuine card was 
used to make the disputed transactions and that they were authenticated. But, the 
regulations relevant to this case say that this is not on its own enough to enable NewDay to 
hold Mr L liable for them. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that 
its more likely than not that Mr L consented to the transactions being made. 
NewDays records confirm that for each transaction, the chip in Mr Ls card was read, and 
the PIN was entered correctly. The evidence shows there were no declined transactions 
despite what Mr L says the club staff told him. Mr L has also consistently said he put his card 
in the card reader and entered his PIN for each transaction when he was at the club. So, Im 
satisfied that Mr L authorised the transactions. 
I note that Mr L says he couldnt see the card reader screen at the time of each transaction 
so he couldnt see what he was being charged or if the transaction had gone through. 
However, under the regulations Im afraid it doesnt matter if the payer doesnt know or see 
the amount they are being charged. They are still treated as having consented to the 
payment, simply by using their card and PIN.
Of course, I cant say exactly what happened when Mr L visited the club. I note that Mr L has 
provided evidence of messages between him and staff at the club which he says shows hes 
been the victim of criminals. And that the staff are involved in bribery and corruption of 
government officials. But Im afraid all this may help clarify is the nature of the scam that he 
fell victim to. I also question why Mr L kept going back to the club given the way he was 
treated and that he believed hed been scammed.
Mr L has also told us that he felt intimidated and threatened by staff at the club when using 
his card and was forced to pay cash. But my role isnt to decide whether Mr L wouldnt have 
carried out the transaction under normal circumstances. I can only consider whether Mr L gave valid consent to the transactions under the PSRs 2017, which entitles the bank to debit 
his account. The payer only needs to consent to the execution of the payment  and thats 
not in dispute here. Mr L has consistently said he entered his PIN. The dispute here is that 
Mr L says he was told the transaction didnt go through. So, he paid cash  in other words he 
paid twice. And he was scammed.
Mr L may have a dispute directly with the club if he feels he was overcharged or duped in 
some way but that doesnt mean NewDay is liable to refund those transactions. The dispute 
Mr L has here is between him and the club he was in. The contracts he may or may not have 
entered into with the club are not for me to decide. Im looking at the relationship between 
Mr L and NewDay and Im satisfied NewDay was entitled to debit Mr Ls account for the 
transactions he later disputed. So, I dont think NewDay has done anything wrong when it 
declined to refund him.
In summary, based on the evidence, Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, but I find that he has 
authorised the disputed transactions and NewDay is entitled to hold him liable for them. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman