DRN-2390244
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Bank of Scotland, trading as Halifax, didnt allow him time for a 
face to face meeting to discuss its proposed changes to his account.
What happened
In March 2020, Halifax sent a letter to its customers about changes to their reward current 
account. It told customers it would be introducing monthly fees from 1 June 2020.  Mr D was 
one of these customers. Halifax asked customers to get in touch by phone, by 15 May 2020, 
if they wanted to keep the account. It provided a dedicated telephone number in the letter. It 
said if it didnt hear from a customer by the deadline, then the account would revert to a 
current account with no monthly fee. The letter included a second telephone number if a 
customer wanted to ask about other accounts or had queries about the letter.
Mr D said he wanted a face to face meeting with a staff member to discuss how the 
proposed changes would affect his account. However, he couldnt visit his local branch 
because it was closed due to the Covid 19 virus and, as an older customer, he was self-
isolating and couldnt be in contact with other people. 
Mr D wrote to Halifax and asked for an extension to the deadline. Halifax called him on 16 
April 2020. Its agent told him he didnt need to go into a branch. He could simply call a 
separate number, choose to keep the account and set up the standing order for the 
minimum payments over the phone.
Mr D wasnt happy with this outcome, so he brought his complaint to this service. He said 
Halifax failed to follow industry guidelines to adopt a policy of forbearance and 
understanding towards their customers during the lockdown. He also complained that Halifax 
had coerced and manipulated its customers into accepting the changes to the account.
An investigator looked into his complaint, but she didnt uphold it. She felt unable to conclude 
that Halifax had done anything wrong. She said the letter gave him enough information and 
time to make an informed choice. 
Mr D didnt accept the investigators view. Hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence, Im afraid I agree with the investigators conclusions and for 
broadly the same reasons.
Weve all faced unprecedented difficulties this year as customers and, for banks, as service 
providers and employers. Older customers have been some of the hardest hit because they 
have been advised to self-isolate or to limit contact with other people. So, I can understand 
why Mr D felt let down by Halifaxs lack of support when he couldnt visit his local branch to 
discuss the account face to face.
However, in April 2020, Halifax couldnt foresee how long the restrictions would continue. It 
couldnt know when it would be possible for Mr D to visit a local branch. So, I understand 
why it decided not to extend the deadline or extend it only for him. In reaching this decision, 
Ive looked at whether he had enough information to make a decision without a face to face 
meeting. 
Ive read the template letter which Halifax sent to its customers. The terms and conditions for 
the account were explained in the main body of the letter and again in a table at the bottom 
of the letter. The letter gave two telephone numbers. The first number was an automated 
telephone service. It was only for customers who decided to keep the account. There was a 
second number to call if a customer wanted to ask about other accounts or had questions 
about the letter. There was also a website address if a customer wanted to read the full 
terms and conditions.
I understand Mr D didnt use the internet. Had it been the only method of communication, 
then I wouldve agreed that the service was a poor one. But Halifax also provided a 
telephone service. I agree with Mr D that the automated telephone service was of no benefit 
to any customer who wanted further information. But there was the second telephone 
number for queries. Mr D didnt call that number because waiting times were long. Instead, 
he wrote to Halifax. Halifax called him to discuss his complaint.
Looking at its contact notes, the Halifax agent gave Mr D the same information that was in 
the letter. I cant see that he asked any questions which were relevant to his personal 
circumstances. However, I accept he had the opportunity to ask questions which he couldnt 
do with just a letter. Im satisfied, therefore, that he had all the information he needed to 
make an informed choice on 16 April 2020. The notes also record that he said he could use 
the automated phone service to choose the account, but he wanted to go into the branch to 
set up the standing order. From what I can see, he wanted to set up the standing order from 
an account with another bank. He was worried that if he did this on the phone, it would 
increase his telephone bill. 
Essentially, on 16 April 2020, his primary concern was that he couldnt afford to set up the 
standing order on the phone because of the cost of the calls to both banks. I see that Mr D 
chose to keep the account and his banks statements confirm he set up the monthly standing 
order with effect from May 2020.
So, whilst he was undoubtedly frustrated with the service he received, I believe the impact 
on him has been minimal. And I note he hasnt provided any telephone bills showing any 
additional cost to him. 
I appreciate his strength of feeling about the way Halifax treated him during the pandemic. 
The FCAs guidance on Covid19 is aimed primarily at access to cash and forbearance with 
loans, credit, overdrafts and mortgages. Mr Ds complaint was about changes to the terms 
and conditions of his account and his concerns were resolvable over the phone. He wasnt 
denied access to his cash and he wasnt being pursued for any debts. I accept that banks 
need to think differently about how to provide services generally in this difficult time. 
However, in this particular case, I dont think Mr D was put to any great inconvenience by 
having to use the phone service. Banks also must think about the safety of their own staff.
Lastly, the decision to change the terms and conditions for the reward account was a 
commercial one and fell within Halifaxs discretion. Its not my role as ombudsman to 
comment on its commercial decisions or products. I can only consider whether it provided enough notice and information of the changes, which it did. Im sorry if Mr D felt he was 
coerced into keeping the account on more expensive terms, but I cant agree he was. He 
couldve opted for the basic current account. The choice was his, even if the choices were 
not desirable. Such was the nature of the products available to him.
For these reasons, I dont consider that Halifax has provided him with a poor service or that 
it has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Im sorry this will be disappointing news for Mr D, but I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2021.
 
Razia Karim
Ombudsman