DRN-2224983
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the information that she was given by Sytner Group Limited about 
the mileage allowance for a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement. 
Her husband is also involved with her complaint.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mrs A under a hire purchase agreement with a credit provider that 
she electronically signed in December 2018 and for which the dealer and credit intermediary 
was Sytner Group. The permitted maximum mileage set out in the agreement was 32,667 
but Mrs A says that, before signing the agreement, she told Sytner Group that she wanted 
an annual mileage limit of 12,000 - but it told her to sign the contract and contact the credit 
provider once the first payment had been made to change the mileage. 
She says that when she contacted the credit provider she was told that the she couldnt 
change the mileage. She complained to Sytner Group but it said that it was satisfied that the 
mileage restriction and the consequences of exceeding that permission were clearly stated 
in the documents that were provided to Mrs A.
Mrs A wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service but our investigator 
didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. She didnt agree that it would be fair 
for Sytner Group to increase Mrs As mileage allowance. 
Mrs As husband, on her behalf, has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. He says, in summary and amongst other things, that the contract didnt state 
that the mileage couldnt be altered at a later date and that it didnt conflict with the 
information given by Sytner Group. He says that Mrs A had not signed anything at the time 
of asking for the increased mileage and she contacted the credit provider because shed 
been told to do so by Sytner Group. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The hire purchase agreement that was electronically signed by Mrs A and under which the 
car was supplied to her is with the credit provider and not Sytner Group. Mrs A electronically 
signed the hire purchase agreement in December 2018 and I consider that the agreement 
clearly sets out the terms on which the car was being supplied to her. One of those terms 
was the option to return the car and, if she did so, the permitted maximum mileage would be 
32,667 and excess mileage charges would be applied for mileage in excess of that.
Mrs A says that she told Sytner Group before she signed the agreement that she wanted an 
annual mileage limit of 12,000 but she signed the agreement with the permitted maximum 
mileage of 32,667 because she says that she was told to sign the contract and contact the 
credit provider once the first payment had been made to change the mileage.
Mrs A says that shes more than happy to pay the extra amount for the higher mileage and 
her husband says that this complaint is about the principle. There doesnt seem to be any 
dispute that a change to the mileage limit was discussed before the agreement was signed - 
Mrs A says that she was told that shed be able to change the mileage with the credit 
provider but Sytner Group says that it was agreed that the mileage limit would stay the 
same.
Sytner Group has provided copies of the statement of demands and needs that was signed 
by Mrs A and the pre-contract credit information that was provided to her. The credit provider 
has provided a copy of the recording of Mrs As call to it in which she asked to change the 
mileage allowance.
In circumstances such as these, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
Mrs A signed the agreement and agreed to the mileage limit that it contained. Theres no 
requirement for the credit provider to change the mileage limit that Mrs A had accepted and 
the financial basis on which the car was being supplied to her was as set out in the 
agreement. She says that she would have paid the extra amount for a higher mileage limit  
but she doesnt know how much that would have been and the credit provider says that it 
doesnt allow such changes once an agreement is live. 
Its clear that Mrs A feels very strongly that she was told by Sytner Group that she would be 
able to change the mileage allowance after shed signed the agreement and I sympathise 
with the frustration and upset that she now feels  but Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that she was given incorrect information by Sytner Group or that it has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in connection with the hire purchase agreement. If the 
permitted maximum mileage set out in the agreement wasnt acceptable to Mrs A, I consider 
that it would be reasonable to expect her not to have signed the agreement.
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Sytner 
Group to arrange with the credit provider for the permitted maximum mileage to be changed, 
to pay any compensation to Mrs A or to take any other action in response to her complaint.
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman