DRN-3141573
The complaint
Mr M complains about a personal loan provided to him by TM Advances Limited, (TMA), 
which he says was irresponsibly lent. 
 
What happened
TMA provided a loan for £4,000 to Mr M on 26 July 2018. The loan was repayable by         
45 monthly payments of £289. The interest rate was 60.1%, (121.7% APR). If all the 
payments were made on time, the total amount to be repaid over the 45 months loan term 
was £13,005 including interest. The loan was to be partly used for debt consolidation. The 
loan was repaid in November 2020 by a relative of Mr M.
Mr M says that he had many payday loans at the time of the loan application due to an issue 
with gambling. His credit check showed many payday loans and that he had recently taken 
out a £6,000 loan with a different provider. TMAs loan had massively affected him. He has 
suffered from depression because of all his loans. 
In its final response letter, TMA provided information about Mr Ms declared income, 
expenses, and his credit commitments. It said it had increased Mr Ms living costs to ensure 
the loan would be affordable. TMA also said that Mr M had a disposable income of £841, 
that the loan was affordable, and the loan released Mr M from the cycle of payday loans. 
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and recommended that it should be upheld. He 
thought the information TMA would have seen from its checks was concerning. And he 
thought this should have prompted it to have found out more before deciding to lend  
including obtaining a thorough knowledge of Mr Ms financial circumstances. This was 
because the amount of short term debt Mr M had was very likely a sign of wider financial 
problems. And although Mr Ms monthly credit commitments shouldve decreased after the 
consolidation of his payday loans, he would still be paying a large amount of his income 
towards credit each month. The adjudicator had reviewed Mr Ms bank statements from the 
time and saw a significant amount of gambling. He was satisfied that if TMA had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks, it would more likely than not have shown that the
agreement wasnt affordable and sustainable for Mr M and/or it would be irresponsible to
lend to him given the amount he was gambling.
TMA disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review and resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
Im sorry to hear about Mr Ms health difficulties. 
When TMA lent to Mr M the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
Its rules and guidance obliged TMA to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this meant that 
TMA needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not a 
borrower could afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime 
of the agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet these 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so TMA had to think about whether Mr M could 
sustainably repay his loan. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for TMA to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr M. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks 
- the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period);
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ms case, I have considered the 
following questions:
 - Did TMA complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ms loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If 
not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
 - Did TMA make a fair lending decision? 
Did TMA complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ms loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
As Ive said above, TMA gathered some information from Mr M about his income and 
expenses before it agreed the loan. It also carried out a credit check. It said Mr M had a 
disposable income of £841 and the loan repayments were affordable.I can see why TMA would think the loan repayments would be affordable based on what it 
had calculated. But I think it should have gathered more information than it did for the 
following reasons.
Im concerned that TMA appears to have relied on Mr Ms statement of his expenses without 
verifying them. CONC 5.3.1(4) said:
If a firm takes income or expenditure into account in its creditworthiness assessment or its 
assessment required under CONC 5.2.2R (1):
1. (a) 
the firm should take account of actual current income or expenditure and reasonably 
expected future income or expenditure (to the extent it is proportionate to do so) where it 
is reasonably foreseeable that it will differ from actual current income or expenditure over 
the anticipated repayment period of the agreement;
2. (b) 
it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of 
the customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by 
the customer;
So, I think it would have been proportionate here for TMA to have verified Mr Ms actual 
expenditure. I note that it had a payslip on file, although this hasnt been received by this 
service.
Ive reviewed TMAs credit checks and its affordability form which shows additional credit 
information. The affordability form showed that Mr M had 14 active accounts with a total 
credit balance of £24,582 outstanding and monthly credit payments of £3,265.50. The 
checks showed that Mr M had two credit cards, but one of these had a balance of £2,513 
which was £63 over the credit limit. They also showed that Mr Ms current account was £7 
overdrawn.  TMA could also see from its checks that Mr M had received eleven loans in the 
six months prior to his loan application which were still outstanding. These included nine 
payday loans, a home credit loan with a balance of £1,802 and a five year loan with a 
£14,729 balance taken out just three and a half months before his loan application. Taking 
into account the settled loans shown on the credit checks, I can see that Mr M had needed 
to borrow credit every month since November 2017 with his most recent loan taken out in 
the same month as his application to TMA.
I think TMA was also likely to be aware that its credit checks might not have revealed the full 
extent of Mr Ms credit commitments. A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers 
credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised. Its checks might not necessarily 
be up to date. Also, not all lenders reported to the same credit reference agencies.
Overall, I think the results of its credit checks ought to have caused TMA significant 
concerns as I think they suggested that Mr M was struggling to manage his money as shown 
especially by his frequent use of and apparent reliance on payday loans, his recent need for 
another large loan within the previous four months and one credit card being over its credit 
limit. And I think the results of the checks might also have reasonably caused doubt on the 
accuracy of the income and expenditure information Mr M provided. I think TMA might have 
also been concerned as to why someone with such a large proportion of available income 
(according to his declared income and expenses) would have needed to borrow so much 
expensive credit relatively recently
I can also see that Mr M was increasing his total indebtedness by taking TMAs loan. Whilst 
Mr M said that £2,500 from the £4,000 loan was being used to repay eight payday loans, he needed £13,005 to repay TMAs loan. So, it appears that his total indebtedness was being 
increased as well as the time hed be indebted for.
Simply performing credit checks isnt enough. A lender needs to react appropriately to the 
information that any checks show. Mr M was entering into a relatively long and expensive 
loan agreement. He was entering into a commitment to make his monthly loan repayments 
for 45 months and was, after all, committing to repay £13,005 over that period. 
So, I think it would have been reasonable and proportionate here for TMA to gather further 
information about Mr Ms financial situation and to verify his actual monthly expenditure. It 
could have done this by, for example, requesting bank statements from Mr M, asking for 
copies of bills and/or receipts for his expenses and by asking him for more information about 
his existing credit commitments. As I cant see it did this, I dont think the checks TMA 
carried out before providing Mr M with his loan were reasonable and proportionate. 
But that in itself doesn't mean that Mr Ms complaint should succeed. Id also need to be 
persuaded that what I consider to be proportionate checks would have shown TMA that     
Mr M couldn't sustainably afford the loan. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? And did TMA make a fair 
lending decision? 
Mr M has provided bank statements from around the time he applied for the loan. Im not 
suggesting here that these are the checks that TMA should have done. But I think looking at 
these gives me the best picture of what the lender was likely to have seen had it made better 
checks. 
I note that Mr Ms monthly income on the statements was around the amount shown on 
TMAs documents. But had TMA sought some verification of Mr Ms spending, I think TMA 
wouldve been in a better position to understand Mr Ms financial situation before it decided 
to lend to him. 
Ive reviewed Mr Ms spending on his bank statements. Worryingly, the statements show that 
Mr M was spending a substantial amount on gambling. Hed spent over half his income on 
gambling in May 2018, and almost half his income in June 2018. Mr Ms spending on 
gambling was frequent enough throughout those months that it was more likely than not that 
it would continue in the same pattern and posed a risk to Mr M being able to repay the loan 
sustainably. In these circumstances, I dont think that TMA would have lent if it knew this, as 
I think it ought to have if it had made better checks. 
In addition, the statements suggest that Mr M was having problems managing his money 
and that he was reliant on short term loans. Hed borrowed numerous short term loans to 
supplement his income. Hed borrowed £3,265 via four short term loans in May 2018 (which 
was one more loan than TMAs checks showed) and hed borrowed a further £1,250 via two 
short term loans in June 2018. In May 2018 he was already repaying ten different short term 
loan providers and in June 2018 he was repaying eleven such lenders. By the beginning of 
July 2018, Mr Ms current account was overdrawn, and the account appeared to have no 
overdraft arrangement. Hed taken out another payday loan for £700 at the start of July 2018 
so the account was in funds. 
TMA said that the loan was affordable, and it released Mr M from the cycle of payday loans. 
But this assumed Mr Ms need for credit wasnt an ongoing one and I think his reliance on 
expensive short term loans to meet his existing costs showed that this wasnt a reasonable 
assumption. It seems to me there was a risk here that Mr M would need to borrow to meet 
his repayments on this loan, as he was currently doing so for his existing costs.So, I think if TMA had carried out what I consider to be proportionate checks, I think its likely 
it would have discovered Mr Ms relatively substantial expenditure on gambling and the full 
extent of Mr Ms financial commitments. I think TMA should reasonably have realised that  
Mr M was over committed financially and that he was having difficulty managing his 
finances. So, its likely that further checks wouldnt have provided the assurance TMA 
needed. And I think TMA ought reasonably to have realised that it was unlikely that Mr M 
wouldve been able to sustainably repay his loan. So, it should reasonably have concluded 
that it treated Mr M unfairly when it agreed to lend to him.
I can see that Mr M continued to borrow from short term lenders shortly after taking out 
TMAs loan. Within two weeks hed taken out two loans totalling £1,100, and I think this was 
foreseeable. 
It seems to me that TMA was focussing on its calculation of whether the loan was affordable 
for Mr M on a pounds and pence basis. But the lender was required to establish whether    
Mr M could sustainably make his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments 
were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The loan payments 
being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a consumer could sustainably 
make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. And as a 
borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their payments, it follows that a 
lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be 
able to sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they are unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
So, I think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld, and that TMA should put things right as 
follows: 
Putting things right  what TMA needs to do
1.Deduct the total repayments Mr M made from the amount borrowed. If
            this results in Mr M having paid more than he received, any overpayments should
            be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the      
overpayments were made until the date of settlement).*
2.Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ms credit file relating to the loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires TMA to take off tax from this interest. TMA must give     
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint I order 
TM Advances Limited to put things right as Ive set out above under the heading Putting 
things right  what TMA needs to do.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman