DRN-2614701
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) has declined his claim. 
What happened
Mr W had an income protection insurance policy which would pay him a benefit in the event 
of sickness.
Mr W became absent from work in March 2019 due to stress. He made a claim on the policy 
which Great Lakes accepted and it paid Mr W three months worth of payments. It then 
stopped payments as it said the policy terms and conditions only allowed payment for more 
than three months if Mr W was under the continuing care of a consultant or a Primary Care 
Trust for his stress.
Mr W complained and unhappy with Great Lakes response, referred his complaint to this 
Service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ws complaint as he was diagnosed with stress by a consultant 
and continued to be signed off by his GP. She therefore thought Mr W satisfied the terms of 
the policy and that Great Lakes should continue to pay the claim.
Great Lakes disagreed and said, in summary:
Mr W wasnt under continued care and so he only satisfied part of the criteria when 
he received a diagnosis from a consultant 
The consultant had advised Mr W could improve if he actively engaged with 
treatment 
The occupational health report didnt suggest that Mr W needed continued care by 
anyone other than himself
But things may have changed since it reviewed the claim and so it was willing to 
consider further information about the care and treatment Mr W had been receiving. 
However, Mr Ws GP hasnt responded or provided a copy of his medical records and 
so it was unable to do anything further. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 20 January 2021. Ill repeat my provisional findings here:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to a different conclusion to that of the investigator and dont think 
Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.  
The policy terms and conditions say:
We will not pay monthly benefit if the accident/sickness results directly or indirectly 
fromClaims for anxiety, depression, stress or any other mental health condition 
where you are unfit to work longer than three months, unless your condition has been 
diagnosed by a consultant or your local Primary Care Trusts mental health trust or 
action team. You must be under the continuing care of a consultant or your local 
Primary Care Trusts mental health trust or action team, in respect of the condition 
which has rendered you unfit for work and on which your claim is based, and you 
must have been certified by them as being unfit for work solely as a result of that 
conditionWe will not apply 5 c) above if you are taking drugs under the qualified 
medical advice or supervision of a doctor (and provided you have not exceeded the 
prescribed dose or failed to comply with any advice given in connection with taking 
such drugs).
Mr W had an occupational health assessment in August 2019. In summary, this said Mr W 
had been off work since March 2019 due to stress and hypertension. The report said Mr W 
had some features of burn out  a form of emotional exhaustion caused by extended 
commuting time and pressures of the role. An improvement was possible if he actively 
engaged with treatment and a return to some work was feasible in three months or probably 
longer. Stress hadnt been present for 12 months and with intervention, it would resolve. The 
report confirmed Mr W wasnt taking any treatment for his stress and related psychological 
symptoms. 
Ive seen Great Lakes asked for Mr Ws GP records and chased the GP surgery a number of 
times but didnt get a response to the questions asked. And so it couldnt review the claim 
without getting a response from Mr Ws GP. 
Great Lakes is entitled to review a claim to ensure Mr W continues to satisfy the policy 
criteria. Although Mr W was diagnosed by a consultant, there is insufficient evidence to 
demonstrate that Mr W has been under the continuing care of a consultant or a local Primary 
Care Trusts mental health trust or action team for his stress. In addition, the occupational 
health report suggests Mr W wasnt receiving any treatment or medication for his stress. And 
so I think its reasonable for Great Lakes to request further information about Mr Ws ongoing 
condition and treatment.
Our investigator said Mr W had continued to be signed off for stress by his GP through sick 
notes and that he had also booked sessions to reduce his anxiety and stress. But that isnt 
enough to satisfy the condition in the policy which specifies that Mr W must be under the 
care of a specialist for his condition. Mr W may have had appropriate treatment or 
medication which will be evidenced in his medical history. But without access to his medical 
records, Great Lakes cant consider his claim any further. And Im satisfied it has 
appropriately and regularly chased the GP for this information. 
I think its reasonable for Great Lakes to ask for further medical information and it will be up 
to Mr W to provide this via his GP. As there is insufficient evidence that Mr W has been 
under the continued care of a consultant or a local Primary Care Trust for his stress, I dont 
think Great Lakes has acted unreasonably or unfairly by stopping payments after three 
months. Mr W has provided some evidence of courses he has attended, but there is no 
definitive and clear evidence that he is receiving continued care which would involve a 
course of treatments or therapies designed to assist Mr W for his stress.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both sides have responded to my provisional findings, which I adopt as part of this final 
decision. Great Lakes has accepted my provisional decision but Mr W has not. In summary, 
he has said:
He is still unable to work.
He expects to receive a service that he has paid for.
He is just about to start a mental health course and has provided confirmation of 
when it is due to start.
He is not receiving any benefits and was expecting Great Lakes to honour the 
contract.
His condition is getting worse rather than better and asks whether a private 
psychiatric report would influence my decision.
Ive considered Mr Ws points very carefully. Im sorry to hear that Mr W remains unwell and 
that his condition is getting worse. Any new medical evidence or deterioration in his condition 
isnt something which I can consider in my decision. I am limited to looking at how Great 
Lakes dealt with Mr Ws claim at the time he made it, based on the medical evidence and his 
condition at the time. 
If Mr W does have further evidence to demonstrate that he now meets the policy terms and 
conditions, he should send this evidence to Great Lakes for it to consider. I dont doubt that 
Mr W is unwell or that he is receiving continuing care. But the onus is on him, to provide 
medical evidence to Great Lakes to demonstrate that he meets the policy terms and 
conditions. 
Im satisfied that Great Lakes has treated Mr W fairly and made a payment to him in line with 
the policy terms and conditions. And so I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
findings. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman