DRN-2802104
The complaint
Mr L complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo) took too long to report his 
account as settled to the credit reference agencies.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr L, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr L acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
I understand that Mr L made his last payment in late October 2020 but that his account 
wasnt marked as settled until February 2021.
Mr L thinks thats too long and MotoNovo have provided £20 compensation for any distress 
and inconvenience caused.
Whilst I understand Mr Ls concerns that his credit file may be damaged by that, Ive not 
seen sufficient evidence that any impact on his credit score has directly led to him not being 
able to secure credit, or that hes been financially disadvantaged as a result of any delay. 
MotoNovo rectified the situation quickly when Mr L raised the issue with them, and they 
ensured the account was shown as closed at the point when Mr L made his last payment in 
October 2020. 
Taking all the circumstances into account I think MotoNovos offer of compensation was fair 
and Im not asking them to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman