DRN-3476320
The complaint
Mr O is a sole trader. He complains that Santander UK PLC unfairly declined his Bounce 
Back Loan application and closed his accounts without notice or explanation.
What happened
Mr O banked with Santander, holding four accounts. 
Mr O applied to Santander for a Bounce Back Loan on 16 December 2020, but his 
application was declined. Mr O submitted a second application on 7 February 2021 and 
provided some additional information with a view to demonstrating his eligibility for the loan, 
but the bank maintained its decision.
Santander then wrote to Mr O on 9 February 2021 to advise that as well as deciding not to 
offer him the loan, it was withdrawing his banking facilities immediately. It restricted all four 
of his accounts, which were scheduled to be closed in 30 days time.
When Mr O complained, Santander said it had acted in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the accounts and that its decision to withdraw facilities would stand. While it 
said that it wasnt always possible to provide a full explanation for such decisions, it noted 
that the decision was made due to Mr Os Bounce Back Loan application and a subsequent 
review.
Mr O remained unhappy and asked us to look into things. He said that when seeking an 
explanation from Santander, it had suggested that he check records held with CIFAS (a 
fraud prevention service with a database of fraud records)  but when doing so, CIFAS had 
confirmed that it held no records about him. He also said the bank had accused him of fraud. 
He didnt think Santander had valid grounds for its actions and was concerned that they 
were motivated by his ethnicity. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Os complaint but didnt think Santander had done 
anything wrong. In summary, he thought that Santanders decision to decline the Bounce 
Back Loan application was reasonable as it had failed the banks checks. And he said that 
the terms and conditions of Mr Os accounts allowed for their immediate closure in certain 
situations  which he thought was a reasonable course of action for the bank to take in the 
circumstances here. 
Mr O didnt accept our investigators view. While accepting that Santander had the right to 
decline a loan application if it didnt meet the relevant criteria, he said that this shouldnt have 
had any bearing on his banking arrangements. He still didnt think that a valid reason for the 
closure of his accounts had been given, particularly as hed shown that no adverse 
information about him was held with CIFAS  so he remained concerned that the banks 
actions were based on his race.
With no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint last month, explaining why I thought it 
should be upheld in part and inviting both parties to respond with anything they wanted me 
to take into account before I made a final decision. I said:
The Bounce Back Loan application
While loans provided under both the Bounce Back Loan Scheme were backed by a 
government guarantee, lenders were still required to undertake certain checks before 
approving an application. These included Know Your Customer, anti-money 
laundering and anti-fraud checks. 
Ive reviewed the banks records of the applications and the checks that it carried out. 
These show that  as Mr O has been advised  the checks yielded some adverse 
information about Mr O held with CIFAS. This led Santander to decline both 
applications. I think it acted in line with the rules of the Loan Scheme in declining the 
applications on these grounds. 
Mr O continues to dispute the presence of any adverse information about him with 
CIFAS. Ive taken all of that into account, particularly that he has had confirmation from 
CIFAS on a number of occasions that there are no records held about him. But there 
are a number of reasons why he may have received this confirmation, despite a 
marker being present. This includes, most notably, that the answer Mr O received from 
CIFAS was only based on any addresses that he provided to it when raising his 
enquiry  whereas the banks checks will have been more complete, checking against 
any linked addresses and individuals to whom he is financially associated. Additionally, 
such records expire after a certain time  so it is also possible that the record existed 
at the time of the banks checks, but not at the time of Mr Os enquiries.
Mr O has explained that he was the victim of identity fraud in 2017. I accept that the 
CIFAS entries couldve been a result of that  in other words, an entry made in relation 
to activity carried out by a fraudster in Mr Os name. But Santander was entitled to rely 
on the information it obtained from CIFAS at the time. 
Taking all of this into account, I dont think Santander did anything wrong in declining 
Mr Os request for a Bounce Back Loan.
The immediate withdrawal of Mr Os banking facilities
Although Santander gave Mr O 30 days notice before the closure of his accounts, it 
withdrew the facilities immediately. The bank had the power to do so under the terms 
and conditions of the accounts  but only in certain circumstances. I dont think it 
treated Mr O fairly by doing so in the circumstances here.
After reviewing Mr Os first loan application  and seeing the adverse CIFAS 
information  Santander was happy to allow Mr O to retain his banking facilities. It only 
decided to withdraw its services after the second application on the basis that it 
thought Mr O had made false declarations when applying. I dont think this conclusion 
was reasonable. I say this because:
Santander thought Mr O had supplied an inflated and unrealistic turnover 
figure when applying for the loan, noting false turnovers being supplied on two 
occasions. In his second application, Mr O provided a figure of just under 
£36,000. The account activity supports this figure. He did provide a very 
different figure when making his first application  of around £3,600,000. But I think this was likely an innocent typing error rather than attempted fraud, 
particularly as hed asked to borrow £9,000 (being 25% of £36,000, his 
entitlement in line with the Loan Scheme rules).
Santanders records show it concluded that no clear business-related activity 
had run through the account for more than a year prior to Mr Os application  
noting that the last business-related credit was in July 2019. That wasnt 
correct. Statements for Mr Os accounts clearly show business-related credits  
from the same source as that of July 2019  being made to the account 
regularly through 2020, including the month prior to his application.
Evidently Santander didnt think the CIFAS information alone was sufficient to 
immediate withdraw Mr Os banking facilities. And it didnt have any concerns about 
Mr Os usage of his Santander accounts or the funds held therein. The only basis for 
its decision to immediately withdraw facilities from Mr O, then, was that it thought hed 
made false declarations when applying for the loan. But I dont think that conclusion 
was reasonable in light of the evidence available to it. It follows that I dont think the 
bank had valid grounds to take the actions it did.
So I think Santander made an error in closing Mr Os accounts in the manner it did. It 
seems that, if things had gone as they should have, the bank wouldve allowed Mr O to 
retain all of his accounts. While the bank retained the right to end a relationship with a 
customer if it wished, it wouldve needed to give Mr Os two months notice  and 
unrestricted usage of the accounts  before closing them, in line with the applicable 
terms and conditions.
As a result of the banks error, Mr O was forced into arranging alternative facilities for 
his personal and business banking needs immediately. This was during an already 
difficult time  the midst of the coronavirus pandemic, which was also impacting the 
availability of banking facilities (as many banks were closed to new customers, while 
prioritising support for their existing ones). So this wouldve caused Mr O some 
unnecessary stress and inconvenience  particularly as all of Mr Os facilities were 
held with Santander. Mr O had to make a number of applications to other providers 
before successfully opening a new account elsewhere, around three weeks later. 
I think the sudden and immediate withdrawal of facilities wouldve also been quite 
concerning and upsetting for Mr O  making him feel he had done something wrong, 
when at the most it seems he made an innocent mistake in adding some additional 
zeros to his turnover figure when first applying for a loan. He only discovered that the 
facilities had been frozen when unable to make a card payment. The banks actions 
also led him, understandably, to raise enquiries with the bank and other organisations 
such as CIFAS and credit reference agencies in an effort to understand what was 
happening.
Mr O has also been concerned that Santanders actions were motivated by his 
ethnicity, which Im sorry to see. Ive not found that this was the case  rather, the 
basis of the banks actions was the erroneous conclusion that Mr O had made 
fraudulent declarations in his loan applications. I can see why this matter  given Ive 
not found a legitimate reason for the banks actions  wouldve exacerbated Mr Os 
concerns in this respect. 
Taking all of this into consideration, I think it would be fair for Santander to pay Mr O 
compensation of £500 for the distress and inconvenience that the immediate 
withdrawal of his banking facilities caused him.Mr O says that Santanders actions adversely affected his credit rating, which made it 
difficult for him to open an account elsewhere and ineligible for preferential mortgage 
rates. But from what Ive seen, Santander hasnt registered any adverse information 
with any external agencies in relation to this matter. There may be a number of 
reasons why Mr Os credit score may have dropped over the period in question and/or 
why his applications for facilities may have been unsuccessful. So I dont think 
Santander is responsible for any issues Mr O has had in this respect.
Santander accepted my provisional decision but Mr O didnt. In summary, he said:
There was still adverse data being attributed to him that would continue to affect his 
financial dealings, so he asked that we ensure he was disassociated from these 
records.
Santander hadnt considered his longstanding relationship with the bank when 
withdrawing its services, and the satisfactory way in which hed managed his 
accounts. He thought Santander shouldve given him the opportunity to clarify any 
issues. This further reinforced his view that the banks decision was motivated by his 
race.
Hed wanted the Bounce Back Loan to expand his business that wouldve led to a 
turnover of £150,000, but Santanders actions had prevented him from doing this and 
in fact hed had to give up his business altogether. He said this was because the 
franchisor had terminated his agreement with it on the basis that the replacement 
bank account hed obtained was from a provider typically associated with customers 
who have a poor credit rating.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not reached a different conclusion to that of my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why the further comments and information that Mr O provided havent changed my 
mind.
Firstly on the information held by CIFAS (or any other agencies), this isnt something that 
Santander is responsible for and so not something about which I can direct it to take any 
action. Ive not seen that Santander has reported any adverse information about Mr O in 
relation to these issues with CIFAS or any other agencies. From what Ive seen, it doesnt 
appear that there is now any information held by CIFAS about Mr O. But hed need to make 
his own enquiries with CIFAS and/or the business(es) reporting such information in order to 
query or remove anything that he is unhappy with.
Mr O highlighted the way in which he intended to use the Bounce Back Loan and that he 
believes Santander deprived him of the opportunity to do so. But I explained in my 
provisional decision why I didnt think Santander did anything wrong in declining Mr Os 
Bounce Back Loan application. I appreciate that Mr O may have found his options limited, in 
terms of obtaining a Bounce Back Loan elsewhere after Santander closed his accounts, but I 
dont think that is something that Santander is responsible for. As above, Ive not seen that it 
recorded any adverse information about Mr O, so he was free to apply to other providers  
and, importantly, the decisions those providers then reached as to whether to lend or open 
the requisite account for Mr O werent, from what Ive seen, impacted by anything Santander 
did wrong.I can appreciate why Mr O thinks Santander shouldve contacted him to discuss the 
discrepancies in the information provided in his Bounce Back Loan applications. But it wasnt 
obliged to do so. Santander was dealing with a large volume of applications and the aim of 
the Loan Scheme was to provide finance as quickly as possible  so the application process 
was heavily reliant on the information provided by the applicant, which was made clear 
throughout the process. So I dont agree that this further suggests the banks actions were 
motivated by Mr Os race. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, Santander was always entitled to end its 
relationship with Mr O. The issue is that it withdrew its facilities immediately, rather than with 
two months notice  as I think was appropriate in the circumstances. This means that Mr O 
would always have needed to find alternative banking facilities  and, in all likelihood, ended 
up with the account that he now has. It follows that I dont think Santander is responsible for 
any of the issues that Mr O has experienced as a result of the alternative account he 
arranged. In any event, he hasnt demonstrated that his new arrangements led to the loss of 
his business or any other financial loss. In particular, I note that he says his franchise 
agreement was terminated due to the alternative account he obtained  but there isnt any 
documentary evidence to confirm this.
Ive also noted Mr Os concern with an account statement that he says hes received out of 
the blue, suggesting that he owes the bank a sum of around £55. That is quite a distinct 
matter from those raised within this complaint, so Mr O should speak to the bank about this 
and raise a separate complaint if he thinks it has made a mistake. In a similar way, Ive 
noted that Mr O says he now has no access to records of transactions made through his 
Santander accounts  but again, this is something that he should speak to the bank about in 
the first instance. It may be able to provide historic records, even though the accounts are 
now closed.
In summary then, I still think that the error on Santanders part was only in closing Mr Os 
accounts without giving him the two months notice provided for within the terms and 
conditions. It is right that the bank compensates Mr O for the impact of that error. Ive not 
seen that it caused him a financial loss, so it is only the distress and inconvenience that this 
matter caused him for which I think Santander needs to pay compensation. To that end, and 
having taken into account everything Mr O has told us, I still think that £500 is fair for the 
reasons given in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require Santander UK PLC to pay Mr O compensation of 
£500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman