DRN-3070425
The complaint
Mrs C says National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs C bought the policy in 1998 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint because:
I think National Westminster made Mrs C aware that the PPI was optional and that 
she chose to take it. I say this because National Westminster has provided a sample 
of the credit card application form Mrs C wouldve had to complete. The form 
includes a section about PPI, which had options for customers to either accept or 
decline the cover. Customers had to sign to show whether or not they wanted the 
PPI.
On balance I consider it likely that Mrs C wouldve completed an application form 
similar to the sample the bank has provided. And I think its unlikely that National 
Westminster wouldve added the PPI to the account if Mrs C hadnt chosen to take it.
National Westminster didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to check if 
it was suitable for her. That means it didnt have to ask about any other means she 
had to cover her credit card repayments.
Its possible the information National Westminster gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it should have been. But Mrs C chose to take out the policy and so 
appears to have wanted this type of cover. She was not affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy was competitively priced and apparently 
affordable. So I think it unlikely Mrs C would have made a different decision if better 
information had been provided. On balance I think she would still have taken out the 
policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman