DRN-1705807
The complaint
Mr C complains about an error made when he opened a new account with Santander UK 
Plc.
What happened
Mr C completed an online application for a current account with Santander in March 2019. 
But one digit of his date of birth was wrong. 
In June, Mr C went to Santander to fix this, as it was causing problems for a remortgage he 
was trying to do. Santander corrected their records by the end of June. On 10 July Mr C 
spoke to Santander about his credit file being changed too, as the discrepancy was stopping 
him getting the remortgage. 
Santander accept they initially said it would take a couple of days to change the credit file, 
which wasnt right. They corrected this with Mr C in a call on 16 July, and the change was 
made by the end of July. 
Santander offered Mr C £50 to recognise the emotional impact of telling him the credit file 
could be fixed within a couple of days. But they felt that the mistake in the date of birth 
wasnt their fault. They noted the details of the online application would have been entered 
by Mr C, not them. 
Mr C wasnt happy with that. He thought Santander should have spotted the date of birth 
was wrong when they set up the account. If they had, all the problems that arose could have 
been avoided. 
The matter came to us. Our investigator felt Santanders responses had been reasonable, 
and the £50 offer was fair in this case. Mr C didnt agree so the matter has come to me for a 
final decision. 
I agree with the investigator that Santanders responses to date have been reasonable, and 
the offer theyve made to resolve the complaints is fair. Ill explain why below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen Santanders record of the data given to them when Mr C opened the account. This 
shows the mistaken date of birth. As this was an online application, the data would have 
been typed in by Mr C, not someone from Santander. So I dont see that Santander were 
responsible for the mistake itself.
Mr C felt that checks done when setting up the account should have spotted that his date of 
birth was different to the one given to Santander. Santander say that their check looked to 
match Mr Cs surname and address to records they already held. They found matches from 
2002 and 2007, so didnt check any further.To decide if thats a reasonable level of check, Ive looked at details on the website of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA). Theres a page on there that says an account 
provider should check the identity of the customer when opening an account, typically with 
an address check. Santander did an address check, so Im happy their service met the 
standard needed. 
Mr C has commented that hes never had an account with Santander. This questions 
whether they had his address record to check against. Santander have no records of the 
actual product their address records relate to. But thats not too odd, given how old those 
records are. 
While I dont know exactly where the address records came from, I accept that Santander 
had them and used them when they did the address check in 2019. Having confirmed the 
address, I can see they did enough to meet the standard described by the FCA. So I dont 
think any further check was needed.
That means the date of birth error wasnt picked up, but that wasnt what the check was 
there to do. It was to confirm Mr Cs identity, which Im satisfied was done. 
Mr C has said that he had to visit a branch of Santander twice to fix the mistake. But 
Santander only have one record of him visiting the branch at around the time he says he did. 
I think Mr C probably did visit twice though. He mentioned doing so in his call to Santander 
on 10 July, but at the time was more focussed on fixing the credit file than raising the matter 
as a complaint. That convinces me it was mentioned simply as something that happened, 
rather than for any other reason.
I accept Santander only have one visit recorded, but I think it more likely this reflects a gap in 
their record keeping, rather than proving there was only one visit. 
I can see it has become a more significant point for Mr C as time has gone on, and Ive kept 
it in mind when thinking about the trouble and upset caused for him. Correcting an error in a 
customers date of birth should be a relatively straight-forward task, provided the customer 
has suitable ID with them. One visit should have been enough to do the job.
In terms of fixing the credit file, I think it was reasonable for Santander to initially leave this to 
automatically update. My understanding is the change would have filtered through on its own 
after a month or so. It doesnt seem to be until Mr Cs call on 10 July that Santander were 
told the matter needed to be dealt with quicker than that. 
I can see Santander manually made the request for the credit file to be changed on that 
date. It was then for the credit reference agency to make the change. The time it took to 
change the record reflects the process in place, rather than any delay or failing on 
Santanders part. 
Ive heard Santander said on the 10 July call that the credit file would be updated within a 
couple of days. That wasnt the case, and I note Mr Cs surprise when he was told on 16 July 
that it could take up to two weeks for the change to be confirmed. This should have been 
made clearer on 10 July.
Putting things right
The date of birth error itself, and the consequences it had for Mr Cs credit file, wasnt 
caused by a failing by Santander. They didnt spot the mistake, but their checks when 
opening the account didnt need to go to that level of detail. And they acted as soon as they 
were told there was a need for urgent action to correct Mr Cs credit file. These parts of Santanders service were reasonable, so Im not going to tell them to try to 
put right the inconvenience the error itself has caused for Mr C. 
Giving Mr C an incorrect expectation about how quickly the problem would be fixed though 
was unreasonable. Ive heard how surprised Mr C was when this was corrected. I cant undo 
that feeling, but compensation would be suitable to recognise it. 
To decide on an amount, Ive thought about how things might have been if thered been no 
poor service by Santander  if theyd sorted out the date of birth on their records after one 
trip to their branch, and correctly told Mr C on 10 July that the credit file could take up to two 
weeks to be put right. Mr C would still have had to wait as long for the credit file to be fixed. 
So the impact this had on his remortgage application and other plans, and the trouble and 
upset this caused, would be much the same as it was.
Santander have put forward a figure of £50 for recognising their poor service. And Ive 
decided thats a fair amount. It recognises that theres been added shock caused by 
Santander, but that the main cause of upset for Mr C was not their doing. 
My final decision
While Im sympathetic to the problems Mr Cs had because of the error in his date of birth, 
the failing in Santanders service played only a minor part in that. The £50 compensation 
Santander have already offered Mr C is a suitable remedy for the impact their service had on 
him.
My final decision is that to settle this complaint, Santander UK Plc should pay Mr C £50, as it 
has already offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman