DRN-4338663
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs P complain that AWP P&C SA unfairly declined their travel insurance claim 
after their flight was cancelled.
As most of the communication relating to the complaint has been from Mrs P, Ill refer mainly 
to her in my decision.
AWP is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agent. As AWP has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agent, in 
my decision, any reference to AWP includes the actions of the agent. 
What happened
In March 2023, Mrs P made a claim under her travel insurance policy with AWP after her 
and Mr Bs flights were cancelled by the airline. Mrs P says they had to stay abroad for an 
extra week because they werent able to get a flight home sooner.
Mrs P claimed for expenses theyd incurred as a result of having to stay away for an extra 
week, such as accommodation, parking and dog kennels.
AWP declined Mrs Ps claim. It said that as she had not checked in at the airport when the 
flight was cancelled, her claim wasnt covered.
Mrs P raised a complaint, but AWP maintained its position. So, Mrs P asked our service to 
consider the matter.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. He thought it was fair for 
AWP to decline Mrs Ps claim because it wasnt covered according to the policys terms and 
conditions.
Mrs P disagreed with our investigators outcome. She said she appreciated the wording in 
the policy document but felt it didnt apply to her claim because she was specifically told by 
the airline not to travel to the airport. She said the airline had told her it was no longer 
responsible for any claim once her new flight had been booked. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr B and Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
The policys terms and conditions say:
The benefit provided below is intended to provide compensation if you are delayed at your 
point of departure and is only applicable if you have travelled there and checked-in. If you 
have not travelled to your departure point you will not be covered, even if you have checked-
in online.
Mrs P says she and Mr B didnt travel to the airport because the airline informed her that the 
flight was delayed, prior to cancelling it. As they hadnt travelled to their departure point, I 
dont think its unreasonable for AWP to say that their claim isnt covered.
I appreciate Mrs P feels its unfair that her claim was declined. However, AWP has chosen to 
only cover travel delay where a consumer has arrived at the airport and checked in. 
Insurance policies dont cover every eventuality, and it was up to AWP to decide what cover 
to offer under the policy.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mrs P, but Im satisfied that AWPs decision to 
decline her claim was fair and reasonable, in line with the policys terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman