DRN-1671381
The complaint
Miss W complains about the service she received when visiting a Nationwide Building 
Society branch. 
What happened
Miss W visited a Nationwide branch to pay cash into her account. She expressed her 
dissatisfaction about the wait time after being in the cashier queue for around 20 minutes. 
Miss W is unhappy about being approached by the branch manager who she says accused 
her of being abusive, causing distress to other customers and who eventually refused to 
serve her. Miss W says she wasn't treated fairly compared to another customer also 
expressed dissatisfaction with the wait time.
Nationwide says Miss W was loudly expressing her concerns about the wait time which 
prompted the branch manager's attention. They approached Miss W to see if she was okay 
and to offer their support. They say Miss W continued to raise her voice, attempted to get 
other customers involved in the conversation and became confrontational. The branch 
manager says they did ask Miss W to lower her voice, or she would not be served and asked 
to leave the branch.
Miss W said she wanted to raise a complaint. The branch manager offered her the option of 
speaking to member services using the branch phone. Miss W said she preferred to raise 
her complaint from home but went ahead to raise it in branch. After speaking to member 
services, the queue had reduced, and Miss W went ahead to pay in her cash. Miss W wasn't 
happy that she had to spend an hour and a half in the branch to pay in cash.
Member services upheld Miss W's complaint and awarded £20 compensation. Miss W didn't 
accept Nationwide's resolution so brought her complaint to our service. An investigator 
looked into things and felt Nationwides offer was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Miss W didn't accept the opinion. Because an agreement has not been reached, this case 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete 
or contradictory, as some of it is here, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider is more likely to have happened, in light of the evidence that is 
available and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
The key facts about this part of the complaint aren't in dispute. Nationwide has admitted that 
Miss W experienced a longer than usual wait time. So, I have to decide whether the things it 
has done to put things right, including the amount of compensation its offered, is fair and 
reasonable. 
I think its right that Nationwide should compensate Miss W for the distress and 
inconvenience caused during her visit to the branch. However, I also think its important to explain that, as a service, our awards are designed to compensate consumers - not punish 
organisations.
Miss W wasn't happy that the cashier staff were helping customers with more than cash 
deposits and withdrawals. I don't think its unreasonable for Nationwide staff to help 
customers with a variety of banking needs. 
Miss W expressed her dissatisfaction with the wait times and was assisted by the 
branch manager. Miss W and Nationwide have both expressed their concern about each 
other's behaviour. All the evidence suggests things got heated and I think it's likely both 
parties played some part in that. The branch manager has admitted that they said theyd ask 
Miss W to leave the branch if she didnt calm down. I dont think its likely they wouldve said 
this unless Miss W played some part. 
Miss W was entitled to raise her concerns about the wait time and the service she received. 
Id expect the branch manager to assist with this. Im pleased to see they arranged for Miss 
W to speak to member services in branch to immediately take her concerns forward. So, I 
can't say Nationwide did anything wrong in this respect. 
Following the call Miss W was able to complete her transaction and was awarded £20 
compensation for the wait time. I think Nationwide's award is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say this because It's not unusual for banks and building societies to have 
busier periods. But, nationwide still acknowledged the inconvenience caused to Miss W and 
ensured she could complete her banking on the day. 
I appreciate Miss W had to spend further time in branch, but that was due to her wanting to 
raise a complaint and from what she has said most of her time was spent speaking to 
member services. Miss W also wasn't prevented from completing her banking transaction 
that day.
I think this is a fair outcome in the circumstances, for the reasons Ive explained - so won't 
be asking nationwide to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman