DRN-3425293
The complaint
Miss O says NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles Card irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Miss Os complaint is about a credit card account provided by NewDay. The account was 
opened in December 2015. Miss O was given an initial credit limit of £450. This limit was 
increased to £1200 in May 2019.
Miss O complains that NewDay irresponsibly lent to her.
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Os complaint and thought that NewDay ought to have realised 
that Miss O wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any further credit by the time it offered 
the increase to her credit limit of £1200 in May 2019.
NewDay disagreed with the adjudicator so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending including 
the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice is set out on this services 
website.
NewDay needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss O 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
Less detailed affordability checks can be reasonable and proportionate where a consumers 
financial situation is stable and where borrowing is insignificant given the consumers overall 
financial circumstances. But certain factors might point to the fact that NewDay should have 
done more to check that any lending was sustainable repayable. These factors include:
- The lower a consumers income, reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a loan amount from a lower level of income
- The higher the amount due to be repaid reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income
- The greater the frequency of borrowing ad the longer the period of time during which 
the customer has been indebted reflecting the risk that prolonged indebtedness may 
signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming unsustainable 
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why he thought NewDay shouldnt have provided Miss 
O with any further credit from May 2019 onwards. He noted that there were unanswered 
questions about Miss Os circumstances that NewDay needed to answer to check that she 
could repay the borrowing sustainably.
Ive noted that the credit limit increase was almost three times the original credit limit. Ive 
also noted that in the months leading up to the credit limit increase, Miss Os credit card 
statements show late and overlimit fees, gambling payments and unpaid direct debit.
The pattern of NewDays lending history with Miss O suggest that this may have given cause 
for concern that Miss O couldnt afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable 
manner. 
I think this information shouldve been enough to alert NewDay that there was a point at 
which they ought reasonably to have seen that further lending was unsustainable. Even if 
this information wasnt sufficient to alert NewDay that further lending was unsustainable, I 
think NewDay ought to have carried out further checks to ensure that further lending was 
sustainable.
I dont know what checks NewDay would have carried out. A reasonable and proportionate 
check would have been to look at Miss Os bank statements to check her income and 
expenditure.
Ive looked at Miss Os bank statements for the relevant period. These show that several 
direct debits failed in the period leading up to the credit limit increase. They also show that 
Miss O took out several short term high cost loans in April 2019, and that she had several 
gambling transactions between February and April 2019.
Based on what Ive seen, I think that if NewDay had carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks, this wouldve shown that Miss O wasnt able to repay the borrowing 
sustainably.
Putting things right
The increase to the credit limit meant that Miss Os indebtedness increased at a time when 
the evidence suggests that she was in financial difficulties. 
Miss O has been given the credit limit increase and has now repaid the full amount including 
interest and charges.
To put things right, NewDay Ltd must:
1. Find out how much Miss O would have owed at the time she settled the credit card 
account had the credit limit not been increased to £1200
2. Remove any interest and charges added to the account as a result of the increased 
credit limit
3. Refund the difference between what Miss O owed when she settled the account and 
what she would have owed had the credit limit not been increased
4. Add simple interest at 8% per annum on the difference between what Miss O would 
have owed when she settled the account from the date she settled it to the date of 
the refund. HMRC requires NewDay to deduct tax from this interest. NewDay must 
give Miss O a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one.
5. If, when NewDay works out what Miss O would have owed each month less the extra 
interest and charges, Miss O paid more than enough to clear the balance, NewDay 
should also pay  simple interest at 8% per annum on the extra she paid. NewDay 
should carry on paying interest until the point at which Miss O wouldve owed 
something on the account.
6. NewDay Ltd should tell Miss O what it has done to work out the sums refunded.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Newday Ltd trading as Marbles Card must 
take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman