DRN-2558859
The complaint
Mr Y is unhappy that HSBC Life (UK) Limited failed to make him aware of changes it made 
to the level of cover it was offering new customers. Mr Y said HSBC should have kept him 
informed if his whole of life policy was no longer fit for purpose and that Parkinsons Disease 
should be a specified critical illness. 
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr Ys policy didnt 
cover Parkinsons Disease when he took it out in 1995. So, when Mr Y was sadly diagnosed 
with Parkinsons Disease his claim wasnt upheld. He felt it wasnt HSBCs role to provide 
regular updates to its current customers on what was being offered to new customers.
Mr Y disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said HSBC failed to treat 
him fairly by not keeping him regularly informed after the point of sale about the cover his 
policy offered compared to new policies. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a similar conclusion to the investigator. I realise this will be 
very disappointing for Mr Y and Id like to assure him I havent made this decision lightly. In 
doing so, Ive looked at and considered all the evidence he and HSBC have provided us  
and Id like to assure him that if I dont mention a particular point, its not because I havent 
considered it, but to focus instead on whats important to the outcome.
Firstly, Mr Y accepts that Parkinsons Disease isnt listed as a critical illness under the policy 
he took out in 1995. So, I havent considered that here. Ive focussed on whether HSBC has 
made an error or treated him unfairly when it didnt make him aware of the cover it was 
offering new customers. 
HSBC has provided a copy of some recent annual statements which asked Mr Y to review 
the cover he has in place and if he wants any financial advice, he can contact a financial 
advisor. Mr Y feels HSBC shouldve made him aware that newer policies were offering 
greater cover for critical illnesses within these annual statements. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im afraid I dont agree. I dont think its HSBCs role to 
compare Mr Ys policy with newer policies its offering. Thats because HSBC wont be aware 
of all of Mr Ys circumstances at any given time. So, its not possible for it to provide 
information on whether those newer policies are suitable or not.  And its standard industry 
practice for insurers to define which critical illnesses, such as Parkinsons Disease, they are 
willing to provide cover for, and set the premiums for this policy based upon the risks they 
are willing to insure at the point of sale. 
So, Im not satisfied HSBC has made a mistake or treated Mr Y unfairly here. So, Im not 
going to ask it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman