DRN-2079103
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (Nat West) closed his account without 
giving him a reason. He says this has caused him inconvenience and he would like his 
account re-opened.
What happened
Mr H held a current account with Nat West. In 2018, Nat West carried out a review on Mr Hs 
account. Following the review, they decided to end their business relationship with Mr H and 
provided him with 60 days notice to close his account. Nat West closed Mr Hs account in 
May 2018 and issued Mr H with a cheque for the outstanding balance.
Mr H wasnt happy and complained to Nat West. He wanted to know why, after being a 
customer of theirs for so long, they decided to close his account. Nat West responded to Mr 
H and explained that their terms and conditions allow them to close an account as long as 
they give 60 days notice  which they did. And they explained they wouldnt be able to give 
Mr H the precise reason for the closure.
Mr H remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. The investigator said Nat 
West were entitled to close the account and didnt have to give Mr H a reason. Mr H 
remained unhappy and still wanted to know why. Another investigator looked into things and 
agreed that Nat West acted in line with their terms and conditions, as well as their legal and 
regulatory obligations. She also explained that they exercised their commercial discretion 
legitimately and therefore didnt think Nat West had acted unfairly.
Mr H remained unhappy so the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigators. I know this will 
disappoint Mr H, so Ive explained my reasons further below.
Ive considered Nat Wests actions when reviewing Mr Hs account. Nat West, like all UK 
banks, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Nat West were acting in line 
with these obligations when reviewing Mr Hs account. 
Following their review, Nat West decided to close Mr Hs account. Im pleased to see Nat 
West gave Mr H 60 days notice and let him know the relevant terms and conditions theyd 
relied on when making their decision to close his account. I recognise Mr H is upset about 
this, but that doesnt mean Nat West have acted unfairly.
Mr H has said Nat West asked him to send information about some transactions and Mr H 
provided them with statements and proof of cash withdrawals  so he doesnt understand 
why they still closed his account. Its important banks complete thorough investigations to 
ensure theyre adhering to their legal and regulatory obligations. Nat West have explained to 
Mr H there were many considerations when making their decision to close his account. So 
while I appreciate Mr H doesnt understand Nat Wests actions or rationale behind closing 
his account, I cant uphold his complaint on that point alone. What is relevant here, is 
whether Nat West were entitled to do what they did. And Im satisfied they were.
I appreciate Mr H is worried he will have issues when opening another bank in the future, but 
I havent seen any evidence that he has struggled to open an account, so I havent 
considered that point as part of my review.
Mr H would like Nat West to give him an explanation for their actions  he says hes been a 
customer for many years, and never done anything wrong. But a bank isnt obliged to give 
an explanation when they review or close an account. However, Id like to reassure Mr H that 
based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied Nat West acted appropriately in the 
circumstances. 
Overall, I recognise how strongly Mr H feels about whats happened. So, I realise hell be 
disappointed by my decision. But overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say 
Nat West have acted unreasonably or treated Mr H unfairly when they reviewed and closed 
his account. So, Im not going to ask them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman