DRN-2903860
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain Amtrust Europe Limited turned down a claim they made for legal 
costs under their legal expenses insurance policy.
Any references to Amtrust in this decision are intended to include the actions of its agents. 
What happened
What follows below is intended to be a summary of what happened. It doesnt therefore 
include all of the details or is it meant to act as a timeline of events.
Mr and Mrs D had legal expenses insurance provided by Amtrust, included with their home 
insurance policy. They were in dispute with a builder about work done on their property. 
They say it was overbudget and time, some of the work was of poor quality and the builder 
had failed to keep accounts leading them to believe theyd been overcharged. Mr and Mrs D 
contacted Amtrust for cover to pursue a legal claim for breach of contract.
Amtrust arranged for a solicitor firm on its panel to review Mr and Mrs Ds claim. The solicitor 
concluded the claim didnt enjoy reasonable prospects, (more than 50% chance of winning 
their case). Amtrust therefore refused to provide funding for legal costs for Mr and Mrs D to 
pursue their claim against the builder, in line with the policy terms.
Mr and Mrs D instructed their own solicitor who concluded that some of their claim had 
prospects of success, but further expert evidence, witness statements and information would 
be needed to substantiate their full loss. Mr and Mrs Ds solicitor sent a pre-action letter to 
the builder and obtained an offer of £10,000.
Mr and Mrs D approached Amtrust again to request funding. As per the terms and conditions 
of the policy, where there are two differing opinions, Amtrust sought the advice of a barrister. 
The barristers opinion also was the claim didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success 
based on the information that was available to them. They recommended Mr and Mrs D 
consider accepting the offer made or seek to negotiate with the builder about sharing the 
costs of obtaining an expert opinion on the work completed and moving the claim on from 
there.
Given an offer had been made, Mr and Mrs D had a limited timeframe in which to decide 
what to do. The barristers opinion ended up taking 11 weeks to arrive and within that time 
Mr and Mrs Ds solicitor negotiated a final settlement of £17,500 bringing the matter to a 
close.
Mr and Mrs D made a complaint to Amtrust, they were unhappy with how the claim had been 
handled. They disagreed with the opinions of the solicitor and the barrister. They also had 
concerns about how the solicitor had conducted the case and the amount of information hed 
requested. And they report he said he wasnt paid enough to read through it all.
Mr and Mrs D said they were disadvantaged by the delay in receiving the barristers opinion 
which meant they incurred further legal costs and were put in a position of having to settle 
the claim rather than risk losing the settlement.
As part of their complaint to Amtrust Mr and Mrs D also requested a copy of their personal 
information be sent to them. Within that documentation they discovered Amtrust had 
disclosed details of their concerns about the panel solicitor to the solicitor theyd instructed. 
Mr and Mrs D complained both to Amtrust and the relevant government organisation about 
the impact this had. They said they incurred charges having to speak with their solicitor 
about the matter and clarify what had happened and this also caused them embarrassment.
Amtrust reviewed the complaint. It explained it was entitled to rely on the legal opinions it 
was provided with and it was happy the claim had been dealt with in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. It did however identify Mr and Mrs D had been told if they could 
obtain a positive solicitor opinion, theyd be reimbursed that cost, so it agreed to pay £100 
toward this. It also said that while the delay in the barristers opinion being provided was 
outside its control, it could have been more proactive in chasing, so it offered Mr and Mrs D 
£150 compensation for this. It also apologised for the error in disclosing information to Mr 
and Mrs Ds solicitor and offered £50 compensation. This made the amount offered £300.
Amtrust also explained if Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with the actions of the panel solicitor, 
they would need to complain to the solicitor firm and follow their complaint process, it wasnt 
something Amtrust could consider.
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with Amtrusts response and brought the complaint to this 
service with detailed submissions. They maintained they had a positive solicitors opinion 
and had been successfully able to obtain a settlement. They felt this proved their claim had 
prospects of success and so Amtrust should cover the legal costs theyd incurred.
Our investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think Amtrust needed to do anything 
more. Having considered the terms of the policy they explained to Mr and Mrs D that Amtrust 
had dealt with the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. It had acted 
correctly by obtaining a barristers opinion and it was entitled to rely on the legal opinions it 
was provided with. Overall the investigator thought the amount offered to Mr and Mrs D to 
put matters right was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the investigator and asked for the matter to be considered by 
an ombudsman. They reiterated many of the points they previously made, including outlining 
the impact the whole matter had had on them.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 16 June 2021. I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint for the following reasons:
I appreciate the detailed information Mr and Mrs D have sent and the effort this has taken to 
pull together. It has allowed me to fully understand what has happened and provided 
sufficient information to allow me to reach a provisional decision. Whilst I dont intend to 
respond in similar detail, I have read all of their correspondence and taken it into account 
when making my provisional decision. So, if I dont mention any particular point or piece of 
evidence it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need 
to reference it to explain my current thoughts. I hope Mr and Mrs D dont take this as a 
discourtesy; it is just a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
The legal claimMr and Mrs Ds claim was turned down by Amtrust as the panel solicitors said it didnt enjoy 
prospects of success. Mr and Mrs D disagree this was the case and have mentioned 
prospects of success is very vague and can be determined purely on what a solicitor thinks 
or feels.
In relation to prospects of success, Mr and Mrs Ds policy says At anytime we may form the 
view that you do not have more that 50% chance of winning the case and achieving a 
positive outcome. If so, we may decline support or any further support.
It is common for nearly all legal expenses policies to have a term relating to prospects of 
success and I dont think this term is inherently unfair. It means an insurer doesnt have to 
provide funding for a claim that is unlikely to succeed. The cost of litigation can be expensive 
and a privately paying client wouldnt generally continue funding legal action if they were 
unlikely to win, so I dont think an insurer should have to either.
Mr and Mrs D have suggested the term is subjective, which to an extent is correct. A 
solicitors opinion is exactly that, and there can be instances, such as this case where 
solicitors have differing opinions. That is why we would expect, and is usually set out in a 
policy, that a barristers opinion is sought.
Amtrust themselves arent lawyers. So, I think its fair that it relies on suitably qualified legal 
advice, unless that advice is so obviously wrong that a layperson could be expected to 
identify it. I dont think that is the case here. Ive read the solicitors opinions  both the panel 
solicitors and that prepared for Mr and Mrs D, as well as the barristers. I think they are all 
detailed and set out the rationale for the decision that has been made. The barrister 
ultimately has the most experience and expertise and therefore their decision would 
supersede that of a solicitor.
It isnt my role to question the judgement of the lawyers, simply its to decide if Amtrust has 
acted fairly in applying the terms of the policy to Mr and Mrs Ds claim. In this instance, Im 
satisfied Amtrust fairly declined Mr and Mrs Ds claim for legal costs based on the advice it 
received.
While a case may not meet the threshold required for funding under a policy, this doesnt 
necessarily mean a consumer wont be able to obtain any settlement in a case they may 
wish to make. And the fact they may go on to do so, doesnt automatically make a previous 
opinion incorrect. In this case, Mr and Mrs D were able to obtain a settlement but at a much 
lower amount than they had been looking to originally pursue. While this was a positive 
development for them, Im not persuaded this means Amtrusts decision to decline the claim 
was incorrect or that it should now cover some of Mr and Mrs Ds legal costs.
Mr and Mrs D have suggested that as their solicitor was able to negotiate a settlement at the 
pre action stage, Amtrust should have allowed funding for this. There were suggestions at 
different points in the claims process that Mr and Mrs Ds claim may not be proportionate to 
pursue. Being the time and legal costs required to bring the case to court would more likely 
than not outweigh the amount that could be recovered. Mr and Mrs D have said that the 
costs they incurred to obtain the settlement were proportional.
I appreciate why Mr and Mrs D may feel this way however the fact the opinion on prospects 
wasnt favourable to them at Barrister level means Amtrust didnt have to provide any 
funding to cover their legal costs. That applies regardless of the final outcome of the claim, 
at what stage a settlement was negotiated or whether the costs were proportional to what 
was recovered.Mr and Mrs D have made several points about the actions of the panel solicitor. Solicitors 
have their own complaints procedures and regulations they must follow. So, Mr and Mrs D 
would need to follow that procedure if they are unhappy with the response the panel solicitor 
provided. I can see when Mr and Mrs D raised those concerns with Amtrust, it provided Mr 
and Mrs D with information about how they could pursue a complaint about the panel 
solicitor. Im therefore satisfied Amtrust dealt with their concerns appropriately here.
The service Mr and Mrs D received
Amtrust has already admitted it offered to reimburse Mr and Mrs D the cost of a positive 
solicitors opinion if they were able to obtain one. Im pleased to see they have 
acknowledged this and will reimburse Mr and Mrs D £100.
Amtrust has said, to acknowledge the fact it could have been more proactive in chasing the 
barristers opinion and for the error it made in disclosing Mr and Mrs Ds information, it was 
prepared to offer compensation of £200.
Ive considered this and what Mr and Mrs D have said about the impact both these events 
had on them and I dont think the amount adequately reflects the trouble and upset, not to 
mention additional cost they were put to with their solicitor. Im mindful it was Mr and Mrs Ds 
choice to instruct the solicitor they did, and it wouldnt usually be unreasonable where one is 
instructed, for an insurer to communicate through them. However, it is clear to me these 
unique circumstances put Mr and Mrs D under increased stress at a time sensitive moment 
in the proceedings.
Having considered everything, I think a sum of £500 compensation in addition to the £100 to 
be reimbursed for the solicitors opinion more adequately reflects the trouble and upset 
caused by Amtrusts actions. I must stress here, that I have fully considered everything Mr 
and Mrs D have said about how the whole situation has impacted them, however I must 
make a definition here about how much of that was caused by the legal situation at hand and 
how much can be attributed specifically to the incorrect actions of Amtrust.
I do think the oversharing of information, quite naturally meant Mr and Mrs D felt they had to 
explain themselves to their solicitor and they felt embarrassed doing so. This came at a time 
which was an already stressful point in the proceedings. Then it was compounded by the 
time it took to receive the barristers opinion which Amtrust accept they didnt chase 
proactively enough. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
Amtrust responded and said it accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to 
add. 
Mr and Mrs D, said that while they appreciated my thoughts, they still didnt believe the 
requirement to have a more than 50% chance of winning the case is fair as it is very 
subjective. They pointed out they incurred a further £200 in legal fees due to Amtrusts delay 
in chasing the barrister, which should only have taken a couple of weeks to produce. They 
also said theyve since found out that Amtrust didnt chase the barrister until week nine of 
eleven. 
Mr and Mrs D questioned what would have happened if the barrister had agreed the case 
had prospects of success, but theyd been forced to settle weeks earlier due to the 
uncertainty.  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr and Mrs D for taking the time to provide their thoughts on my provisional 
decision. I do understand how difficult and stressful they have found this whole situation and 
the impact it has had on them. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I do agree that to some extent the requirement of having 
more than a 50% chance of winning is subjective, as it is based on a lawyers opinion. 
However, this term is very common in legal expenses insurance. I appreciate Mr and Mrs D 
have their own thoughts about this term, but I cant conclude Amtrust has acted 
unreasonably by having this term in the policy or relying on the legal opinions it did. 
It has been acknowledged there was a delay and that Amtrust could have been more 
proactive in chasing the Barristers opinion. I need to limit my consideration to what did 
happen in this case, so while I appreciate Mr and Mrs D may question what if? this isnt 
something that I will be looking at here. 
When making my provisional decision, I acknowledged Mr and Mrs D incurred further legal 
fees due to Amtrusts delay and that is part of the reason why I increased the amount of 
compensation due  to take this into account. 
Ive reconsidered everything, however Im not minded to change my decision here or award 
anything further. 
For the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision I think Mr and Mrs Ds complaint 
should be upheld.
Putting things right
Amtrust should reimburse Mr and Mrs D the £100 fee they incurred for the solicitors opinion.
It should also pay them compensation of £500, which makes a total payment to them of 
£600.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint against Amtrust Europe Limited. 
It should put things right as I have set out in the section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman