DRN-2405795
The complaint
Ms O complains that Honeycomb Finance Limited will not let her out of an arrangement to 
pay for an educational course for her children.
 
What happened
In November 2017 Ms O says she was sold a cancel at any time arrangement for an online 
education course for her children. Honeycomb says she took out a Fixed Sum Loan 
Agreement over four years with it to pay for this online educational course, supplied by a 
separate company who were the educational course provider.
In February 2018 Ms O felt they no longer wished to have this online educational course. So 
she rang the course provider to cancel. During that call she was told to call Honeycomb 
about her wish to cancel this loan agreement.
Ms O says she didnt understand shed been signed up to a loan agreement. She says she 
didnt know about Honeycomb until she tried to cancel, and that she disputes signing any 
documentation whether electronically or handwritten. Ms O wants out of the agreement with 
nothing else to pay but Honeycomb say shes responsible for the total amount of credit 
(which was just under three thousand pounds at the time the agreement was created in 
2017).
Ms O complained but Honeycomb say its done nothing wrong. So Ms O brought her 
complaint here.
Our Investigator upheld Ms Os complaint, but Honeycomb didnt agree and pointed to the 
paperwork from the sale. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms O says that having learned about the educational course through a leaflet provided 
through her childrens school she expressed an interest in learning more about this, and a 
representative visited her home in November 2017. By the end of this meeting Ms O had 
purchased an educational course for her children. It appears the representative was acting 
for both the course provider and Honeycomb during the sales process. The total price of the 
course was £2872 of which £2842 was paid for with a loan from Honeycomb which was 
arranged by the representative. 
Ms O has been very clear and consistent in her representations that during the meeting with 
the representative she understood the situation was that they had a service which could be 
cancelled anytime. She also makes clear from the start that she understood she was setting 
up a monthly direct debit arrangement and not anything else. She says she wouldnt have 
knowingly taken a loan due to her personal circumstances at the time and the need for 
flexibility in her finances. She says about the sales process that whilst she looked at a 
computer about the educational course the representative was working on a computer tablet 
separately which was never shown to her. With regard to the hand signed and initialled 
document that Honeycomb says she completed she says shed never seen the document 
until it was provided to her many months after the representative visited. She says she 
doesnt sign or initial paperwork in the way this document is signed and initialled.
Repeatedly Ms O has said that she didnt understand that she was entering a loan 
agreement and that she didnt sign anything. Ms O does agree she entered an arrangement 
but believed it was monthly direct debit type arrangement for the provision of the online 
course.
It is not exactly clear the situation of the representative who sold this course other than it 
seems they were representing at least the course provider. However just because 
Honeycomb didnt sell Ms O the course or the loan directly, doesnt mean that it hasnt 
responsibilities to Ms O. It does have some obligations here due to certain protections 
afforded to consumers by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The loan Ms O entered with 
Honeycomb is regulated by this Act, and there are two sections of the Act which provide her 
with some protection namely section 56 and section 75. 
In summary section 56 has the effect of making the representative who sold the loan here, 
the agent of Honeycomb during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Ms O entering 
into the loan agreement, beginning with the first contact she had with the course provider. In 
essence this means Honeycomb can be held responsible for the things that were done or 
said during the sales process. Section 75 has the effect of allowing Ms O to hold 
Honeycomb liable for breaches of contract by the course provider, or misrepresentations 
made during the sales process by the representative in this case. As Ms O makes clear she 
believes the representations made to her at the time of the sale were in retrospect untrue.
Honeycomb has pointed to a number of documents which were electronically signed by Ms 
O on the day in question. Honeycombs position essentially is that the documentary 
evidence from the point of sale is overwhelming and is, in short, the end of the matter as Ms 
O agreed to everything in those documents. 
I dont agree that position is a complete or fair appreciation of what happened here. What 
was said by the representative is also important because the discussion will have started 
before the paperwork was signed (if Ms O did sign it-which she contests). And Ms O would 
have considered what the representative said in her decision making during the sale. And it 
is of note what Ms O said about how the representative kept the tablet they were working on 
separate from Ms O.
Ms O has been consistent in what she says about believing she could cancel any time. She 
says she believed this because this is what the representative told her. And events do 
support this as it is clear that she rang the course provider in order cancel the monthly 
payment.
As for the broader context of this sale Im also aware that the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) wrote to credit brokers outlining some key risks for them to consider and act upon. 
The FCA said it had found firms brokering credit agreements with third party finance 
providers had poor oversight of staff, leaving sales practices unchecked and potentially 
increasing the risk of mis-selling, fraud or other poor consumer outcomes. It highlighted in 
particular brokers which sell products in consumers homes as presenting a higher risk of 
consumer harm, especially where sales took place without appropriate oversight and on a 
commission-basis. The FCA did not name individual firms, but Im mindful of the fact that the 
sale here does, at least, fit some of the criteria the FCA identified as presenting a high risk of 
mis-selling.Importantly I also need to consider that this service has seen a significant number of cases 
about the course provider involved here and it using credit providers such as Honeycomb. 
These include the common theme of people understanding that they could cancel at any 
time or outside the stated terms. I havent seen anything that connects these complainants 
other than they were sold courses such as this by this particular course provider and often 
took finance to pay for it. That doesnt mean that the representatives always provided 
misleading or untrue information. But it does show that there was a significant risk that such 
representatives either were unclear on the arrangement being entered into or that 
unscrupulous or incompetent representatives may have presented the situation differently to 
that articulated in the documentation.
This service has also received information that the course provider sometimes operated 
informally a longer cancellation period than the fourteen days set out in its contracts. I can 
see the existence of official and unofficial cancellation periods of different lengths being a 
potential source of confusion during the sales process, and this again leads me towards a 
conclusion that misunderstandings were not uncommon.
Ive considered what Ms O has said very carefully. And taking everything into account Im 
persuaded on balance that Ms O was told a sufficiently different story by the representative 
regarding the operation of the agreement to that set out in the documentation provided by 
Honeycomb. I think it likely she was told that she could cancel at any time and I dont think 
she was told that she was entering a loan which had a commitment for years. And it was on 
this basis she entered into the agreement. And similarly I think it is on this basis things 
should be put right. And as Ive described due to the operation of sections 56 and 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974, Ms O can hold Honeycomb liable for the incorrect information 
provided by the representative in this case. So Honeycomb needs to do something to put 
things right.
In response to the views of the Investigator Honeycomb has said that reliance on one partys 
recollections when compared to its tangible and credible documentary evidence would isnt 
fair. I disagree. Firstly Ms O doesnt dispute she agreed to take the course but that she didnt 
understand that shed entered into a loan agreement to pay for it. Importantly the key issue 
here is what was said to Ms O before and whilst she entered the agreement and what she 
relied on in deciding to sign. Secondly and more importantly Honeycomb has only described 
what it considers what would have been said and done by its representative not what was 
actually said. In essence it is relying on the representative describing the matters accurately. 
However it hasnt provided commentary from the representative in this case in support of its 
position. Ms O was there in person and heard what was actually said and I find her 
comments persuasive in light of what we already know. And along with what Ive already 
said with regards to sales such as this more broadly and considering what this service 
knows of sales such as this, means I consider it fair on balance that Honeycomb put things 
right in this particular case.
I can see that Honeycomb point to one of the documents that Ms O signed by hand and 
initialled various parts of and thinks this is persuasive. However it needs to bear in mind that 
Ms O has made clear she did not see the electronic documents at all or at least in any detail 
and didnt have opportunity to study them carefully. She describes how the representative 
had gone through a presentation beforehand and that whilst she was looking at the 
educational programme on one computer the representative was working on a computer 
tablet that she never saw. And importantly she disputes signing the handwritten 
documentation which Honeycomb point to. She says her signature is different and the way 
she initials documentation is different to the form. She says shed never seen this form until it 
was supplied to her later.So in the context of the whole meeting and the presentation made to her by the 
representative as she describes it, I think it would be unfair in the round to say that this 
document on its own is sufficient to overturn the consistent and persuasive representations 
Ms O has made about what happened that day. Bearing in mind the issues Ive described it 
seems fair to me to allow Ms O to withdraw from the agreement when she tried to on the 
basis of what Im satisfied on balance she was told.
Honeycomb point to other outcomes arrived at by this service on similar complaints. And as 
Ive described just because there are concerns about some of the sales made in this manner 
doesnt mean no sale was made properly. This service considers each case on its individual 
merits and in some cases consumers make clear they knew exactly what the terms were. 
And this service has decided accordingly. But there are also a significant number of 
instances of consumers describing issues as Ive already outlined. And for the reasons Ive 
described here I think Ms Os comments about what happened in her specific case are 
persuasive.
I note that Honeycomb hasnt persuasively engaged here on why these complaints about 
such sales keep arising and coming to our service. All in all Im persuaded by what Ms O 
says did happen here rather than what Honeycomb said would or should have happened in 
her case. So Ms Os complaint is successful.
  
Putting things right
I direct Honeycomb to take the following actions:
Cap Ms Os liability for the loan at the sum of the repayments which were due as of
the date she first contacted either the course provider or Honeycomb to cancel. 
Anything above this amount must be written off and no longer pursued.
If Ms O has paid more than this capped liability, then any overpayments must be
refunded to her, along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date she
made each overpayment, to the date she receives a refund.
If Ms O has paid less than this capped liability then an affordable repayment plan 
must be arranged for the outstanding balance up to the cap.
Remove any negative information relating to the loan from Ms Os credit file and 
mark it as settled from the first date she contacted either the course provider or 
Honeycomb to cancel. If Ms O has not paid up to this capped liability then 
Honeycomb does not need to mark the loan as settled until she has paid up to the 
cap.
Arrange with Ms O for the return of any course materials, DVDs and anything else 
she received under the contract, and the ending of any other services supplied under 
the contract. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Honeycomb to take tax off this interest. Honeycomb must
give Ms O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if Ms O asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint against Honeycomb Finance Limited 
and direct it to put things right as I have set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman