DRN-3133734
The complaint
Mrs D says that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) didnt carry out appropriate checks when 
lending to her and if it had, the checks would have shown the lending was unaffordable for 
her.
What happened
In January 2020, Mrs D was provided with an Aqua credit card with a limit of £300. In
January 2021, Mrs D complained to Aqua that her credit limit was too high and at the time
the lending was approved, she already had two other credit cards with high limits, a few
payday loans and a large overdraft. She said the lending was unaffordable, she had to
borrow from elsewhere to make the minimum repayments and she was struggling to pay the
balance of the credit card. She said she wanted Aqua to refund any interest and charges
paid and her credit file amended.
Aqua looked into Mrs Ds complaint in February 2021. But it didnt think the lending was
unaffordable. It said it carried out proportionate checks before lending and these checks
showed Mrs D could afford to repay what she was lent. It also closed Mrs Ds account so
she wouldnt be able to use it going further. And it refunded £24 of late payment fees as a
gesture of goodwill.
Unhappy with this, in March 2021, Mrs D referred her complaint to our service. She said
Aqua shouldnt have lent to her. And her expenditure outweighed her income at the time of
lending, due to her personal situation and the amount she owed to other creditors.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He considered both the information Aqua had
provided and bank statements and a credit file provided by Mrs D. Our investigator thought
that based on this information, Aqua lent irresponsibly. He thought Aqua should refund all
interest and charges, pay Mrs D 8% simple interest on any remaining amounts if the refund
resulted in her having a credit balance and remove all adverse information from Mrs Ds
credit file.
Aqua disagreed. It said it didnt obtain Mrs Ds bank statements or credit file when it made
the decision to lend  and it wasnt required to. It said the information it had obtained meant
that Mrs D met its lending criteria and so it approved the lending to her.
Aqua remained in disagreement, so the case was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision on 28 September 2021, in which I said the following:
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website
 including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered
this approach while deciding Mrs Ds complaint.
Before deciding to lend, Aqua needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks, to
satisfy itself that Mrs D would be able to repay what she borrowed in a sustainable way.
A proportionate check is dependent on a number of factors including  but not limited to -
Mrs Ds particular circumstances (e.g. her financial history, current situation and outlook, and
any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit she
was looking to obtain. The checks should be borrower focused and Aqua needed to ensure
the payments under the lending agreement wouldnt cause Mrs D any undue difficulty. There
may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check should
have been  such as any indications of borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes
in future circumstances.
Mrs D was also given a credit facility where there was an expectation that shed repay what
she borrowed plus the interest due within a reasonable period of time. The relevant rules,
regulations and guidance in the period Aqua lent to Mrs D dont set out what a reasonable
period of time is. So I think its important to note that a reasonable period of time will always
be dependent on the circumstances of the individual case.
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Aqua did what it was required to do
before agreeing to lend to Mrs D.
When deciding to lend to Mrs D, Aqua says that Mrs D provided income details on her
application and she passed its affordability checks, which were based on external credit
bureau data.
The application shows Mrs D had confirmed she was working as a part time contractor and
her gross annual income was around £20,000. Aqua has provided information to show what
the credit search showed. At the time of lending, Aqua obtained information about the
number of accounts Mrs D had, her outstanding unsecured loan balance, whether she had
any accounts in arrears, the number of defaults she had and when these accounts were last
defaulted. As the information showed Mrs Ds unsecured lending was relatively low and she
had no missed payments or arrears since the default 43 months previously, Mrs Ds
application fell within Aquas lending criteria.
Ive reviewed the information Aqua obtained about Mrs D before lending to her. Mrs Ds
declared income at the time, together with there not being anything too concerning on her
credit file, leads me to think that it was fair for Aqua to conclude Mrs D would be able to
repay £300 within a reasonable period of time. In addition, I dont think there was anything in
the information Aqua obtained that would suggest to it that Mrs D wouldnt be able to repay
the amount she borrowed sustainably. So I dont think Aqua did anything wrong when it
decided to provide Mrs D with a credit card that had a limit of £300.
I appreciate Mrs D has provided our service with her bank statements and her credit file from
the time of lending. However, given the factors Aqua had to take into account at the time of
lending, it wasnt required to obtain this information. And I dont think it needed to, given that
I think it obtained reasonable and proportionate information to enable it to make a fair
lending decision.
Aqua has said Mrs D has been making monthly repayments towards her account and so her
outstanding balance has reduced. Its asked Mrs D to contact it if she is finding it difficult to
make payments. If Mrs D does choose to contact Aqua, Id remind it of its obligations to treat
her with forbearance and due consideration if she is in financial difficulties.
Aqua responded to say it agreed with my decision. Mrs D didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new evidence has been provided for me to consider following my provisional decision, 
it follows that there is no reason for me to reach any different conclusion than set out in my 
provisional decision. So, for the reasons given in my provisional decision, which I have 
outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021. 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman