DRN-3878445
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains that Santander UK PLC unfairly terminated 
its Bounce Back Loan and closed its bank account.
Mr G is Ss director and brings the complaint on the companys behalf. 
What happened
S was incorporated in November 2016. It held a bank account with Santander and 
successfully applied to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan of £50,000, which was drawn down 
on 12 May 2020.
In August 2020, Santander conducted a review of Ss Bounce Back Loan application and 
blocked the companys access to its bank account  and the remaining loan funds held 
therein  while it did so. 
Santander wrote to S on 11 August, explaining that it had some concerns as to the 
companys eligibility for the loan it had obtained. It said:
When requesting the loan, S had declared an annual turnover of £204,000 but the 
banks records showed income of approximately £37,000. This was relevant as a 
business was only entitled to borrow up to 25% of its annual turnover under the Loan 
Scheme rules.
It had identified that S may not have used the loan funds for business purposes, as 
was intended under the Loan Scheme. This was based on Ss transfer of the majority 
of the loan funds to Mr Gs personal account, also held with Santander.
Santander asked Mr G to provide information to demonstrate that S met the eligibility criteria 
and had used the loan funds appropriately. On review of what Mr G was able to provide, the 
bank concluded that S wasnt eligible for the loan it had obtained  so it terminated the 
agreement. 
Santander recovered around £5,800 from Mr Gs personal account with the bank and 
applied this, along with the remaining balance in Ss account, to the loan balance. This left 
an outstanding amount of around £40,000, which became repayable immediately. Santander 
also closed Ss bank account.
Mr G sought to appeal Santanders decision, ultimately leading to this complaint, as he 
maintained that S was eligible for the loan. He said that the annual turnover figure hed used 
had been a projection, based on a purchase order to the value of £300,000 it had received. 
He didnt think Santander had investigated the matter thoroughly before reaching its decision 
and said that the banks actions had caused the company to lose its £300,000 deal. But 
Santander maintained its decision, so Mr G referred the matter to us. 
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think Santander had done anything 
wrong in terminating the loan agreement and closing Ss account. He said that S wasnt 
entitled to use a projected turnover figure when applying  and that the application form had 
been clear in asking for the companys actual trading income. So the figure Mr G provided 
was incorrect and, in turn, this amounted to an event of default under the terms of the facility.
Our investigator did, however, note that Santander had offered to refund charges applied to 
Ss account while it was restricted  but some of these hadnt been reversed. So he thought 
it should refund any charges that had remained.
Santander accepted our investigators view and agreed to refund charges of £15 that had 
been missed previously. 
Mr G didnt accept our investigators view. He said he hadnt intended to deceive the bank, 
but had mistakenly believed that he could use an income forecast when applying. He said 
the online application was vague on this point, and that it wasnt uncommon to apply for 
finance based on expected revenue.
Mr G also queried whether Santander would be refunding any amounts charged to the 
Bounce Back Loan during what shouldve been the first year of repayments. He was also 
unhappy that debt collectors had been appointed and contacted him about the outstanding 
debt. And he believed Santander had made a libellous accusation that he had fraudulently 
tried to apply for another loan with another company, and wanted any records to that effect 
corrected.
With no resolution, Ss complaint was passed to me to decide. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision last month. While my conclusions were largely similar to those 
of our investigator, my reasons were slightly different. So I wanted to give both parties the 
chance to respond with anything else they wanted me to take into account when making a 
final decision. I said:
There were a number of eligibility requirements that had to be satisfied before a 
business could obtain a loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. Of particular 
relevance here, these included that the loan amount could be no more than 25% of 
the applicants annual turnover, which was to be based on turnover during the 2019 
calendar year. Businesses established after 1 January 2019 could use an estimate.
S was established in November 2016, meaning it wasnt entitled to use an estimate 
when applying. 
I understand Mr G believes the application questions to have been unclear in this 
regard. Santanders online application form asked for the applicants 2019 annual 
turnover. A short explanatory note said that estimated figures could be used if your 
business was established after 1 January 2019. I dont think this ought reasonably to 
have led Mr G to believe that S  having been established before 1 January 2019  
could use an estimate.
Santander approved Ss application on the strength of the companys self-declaration 
that it met these criteria. In keeping with the nature of the Loan Scheme, applicants 
self-attested to eligibility with minimal checks by lenders in order to process 
applications and provide funds quickly. It wasnt expected or required to verify the 
information provided by an applicant, and I cant say it made an error in approving 
the application on the basis of the information that Mr G provided.When Santander subsequently reviewed things  as it was entitled to, in line with its 
anti-fraud obligations both under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme and its wider legal 
and regulatory requirements  it concluded that S wasnt eligible for the loan it had 
obtained and that it had grounds to terminate the agreement. I think that decision 
was reasonable, as it is evident that S didnt have the turnover it declared, and wasnt 
eligible for the loan it had obtained. It also gave S sufficient time and opportunity to 
respond to its concerns before reaching a decision. 
Under the terms and conditions of Ss Bounce Back Loan agreement, Santander was 
entitled to terminate the loan and demand its immediate repayment in certain 
circumstances. This included where any information provided in the loan application 
was found to have been misleading, incomplete or incorrect. Mr G says that he didnt 
intend to deceive Santander and didnt knowingly misstate Ss turnover. Even 
accepting that, the fact remains that the information he provided was incorrect and 
that the company wasnt entitled to the loan it had obtained as a direct result of the 
misinformation. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Santander to terminate the 
agreement in the circumstances. 
Santander also had legitimate concerns as to how the Bounce Back Loan funds had 
been utilised. A Bounce Back Loan could only be used to provide economic benefit to 
the business  and not for personal purposes. The majority of the loan funds had 
been transferred to Mr Gs personal account, with significant payments then made to 
various finance providers and personal payees. And although the payment of a 
salary could well amount to a legitimate business expense, this seems difficult to 
justify in the circumstances here  with around £50,000 paid to Mr G within three 
months, a far greater amount than was being paid prior to Ss receipt of the loan. So 
it also seems that the loan wasnt used for the requisite purpose. This also entitled 
Santander to terminate the agreement, being a breach of the terms and conditions. 
Under the terms and conditions of Ss account and the loan agreement, Santander 
also had the right of set off  in short, it was entitled to use any credit balance held 
by S in any other account with Santander towards the repayment of any amounts the 
company owed to the bank. So I dont think Santander did anything wrong in 
removing the funds from Ss account and applying these to reduce the amount it was 
owed under the Bounce Back Loan agreement. The banks recovery of funds from Mr 
Gs personal account is the subject of a separate complaint, so I wont comment on 
that further here.
Ive noted that Mr G is concerned that additional amounts may have accrued on the 
Bounce Back Loan, but Ive not seen anything to suggest that S has been asked to 
pay any more than it borrowed. The loan was terminated within the first 12 months of 
the term, during which time no interest was applied and no payments had fallen due.
The actions Santander took when restricting and later closing Ss bank account were 
in line with the applicable terms and conditions and  given all Ive said about the 
validity of its concerns over Ss entitlement to (and use of) the loan  were 
reasonable steps for the bank to take. And the bank was free to appoint a debt 
collector to pursue repayment of the amount due, with its right to do so unaffected by 
the ongoing complaint.
So based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think Santander did anything wrong in how 
it terminated and recalled the Bounce Back Loan from S, or in its restriction and 
closure of the companys bank account. It follows that there is no basis on which I 
could fairly hold the bank responsible for any impact this may have had on the 
company.Santander has already agreed to refund any charges that accrued on the account 
while S was unable to access it. Thats as much as I could fairly require it to do in the 
circumstances. 
Lastly, Ive considered what Mr G has said about Santanders suggestion in one 
letter that S (or a group of companies to which it belonged) had illegitimately obtained 
more than one Bounce Back Loan. This was a mistake. While regrettable, Ive not 
seen that it has prejudiced the companys position in any way  including, for 
example, as a result of information being registered about this with credit reference 
and/or fraud prevention agencies. But if it has done so, Id expect this to be removed. 
The bank should confirm the position when responding to this provisional decision.
Santander responded to say that it hadnt reported anything to the effect that S had made 
more one than Bounce Back Loan application, and had nothing further to add.
Mr G responded to say that the transfer of funds to his personal account had been to repay 
himself for invoices hed settled on Ss behalf. In response to further queries about these 
transactions, Mr G provided some copy invoices and said theyd been paid in cash. He 
acknowledged that this meant it was difficult for him to evidence the position and, therefore, 
that he accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with little by way of further information or evidence from either party for 
me to consider, I see no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions. 
Mr G has suggested that the transfer of the loan funds to his personal account represented 
the repayment of a directors loan used to settle invoices. But hes been unable to 
substantiate that. Hes sent us some copy invoices, but theres no evidence that he paid 
them out of his own pocket  or indeed that they were settled at all. So this hasnt led me to 
reach a different view as to the inappropriate usage of the loan funds. Although even if it 
had, I still think Santander wouldve had sufficient grounds to terminate the agreement on 
the basis of Ss ineligibility as set out in my provisional decision  to which Mr G didnt 
respond with anything further for me to take into account.
In my provisional decision, I said that Santander should instruct the removal of information 
recorded with any third parties in relation to its apparent mistaken belief that S had obtained 
more than one Bounce Back Loan, if any was recorded. The bank has confirmed that it didnt 
register any such information and, as Ive not seen anything to suggest otherwise, I dont 
think it needs to take any action in this respect.
That means, therefore, that the only action I think Santander needs to take in response to 
this complaint is to refund any of the bank account charges it applied from 11 August 2020 
onwards. There was evidently some delay in Santander closing the account, which in the 
event only happened in June 2021. So this refund ensures that S isnt left out of pocket. 
Given that there were no funds within the account to which S was entitled to use  in light of 
the banks reasonable decision to use its right of set-off to pay down the Bounce Back Loan 
debt  I dont think there was any other impact on the company for which any further 
compensation is warranted.My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require Santander UK PLC to refund to S any account 
charges applied from 11 August 2020 onwards that it hasnt already reimbursed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman