DRN-2598184
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited (British 
Gas) under his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr B complained to British Gas about issues with booking an annual service under his 
HomeCare policy.  Mr B wanted the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) to reply to his complaint.
When British Gas replied, it said it had been dealing with a high demand for its services. 
British Gas said it was unable to promise that its service would improve, but it was 
unacceptable for it to take two weeks to be able to contact British Gas. It said the CEO had a 
team who dealt with issues raised.
Mr Bs annual service appointment was then cancelled, so he complained again. When 
British Gas replied, it accepted it had cancelled appointments and said this was permitted 
under the terms and conditions of the policy. It offered £260 compensation, which included 
£65 for the annual service on the boiler and a further £65 for a missed annual service on Mr 
Bs gas fire.
Mr B complained to this service. Our investigator said British Gas had dealt reasonably with 
Mr Bs complaint and that the amount of compensation offered was fair in the circumstances.
As Mr B did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think British Gas dealt with this complaint fairly. I will explain why.
Mr B complained about the level of service he received from British Gas and that there was 
an increasing time gap between annual services. This meant they were now more than 12 
months apart. Mr B also had problems with contacting British Gas.
Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions. These said that an annual service would take 
place during each period of agreement. This meant that so long as an annual service took 
place during that period, British Gas had done what it said it would, even if those 
appointments were more than 12 months apart. So, I havent seen anything that shows 
British Gas did anything wrong by offering Mr B annual services more than 12 months apart.
British Gas accepted it shouldnt have taken two weeks for Mr B to be able to contact it to 
make an annual service appointment. I can understand Mr Bs views about not being able to 
get through on the phone and when his webchats were terminated before they were 
completed or that it wasnt possible to start one in the first place. I can see that this would 
have added to Mr Bs overall view of the service provided by British Gas and that this 
affected his ability to arrange the annual service offered under the policy.
British Gas then cancelled the annual service appointments. This was due to the availability 
of engineers and then Covid-19 restrictions. Im also aware that Mr B said another 
appointment had been cancelled, although British Gas couldnt find evidence of this.
Ive looked at the policy documents. These said we prioritise breakdowns and may need to 
rearrange your annual service. So, I think British Gas had explained that annual services 
would sometimes need to be rearranged and the reason for this. For the first cancelled 
appointment, Mr B said he had a missed call from British Gas and he said it didnt explain 
the appointment had been cancelled. It was only when Mr B then spoke to British Gas to 
discuss his complaint that he was told about the cancellation. 
Ive thought about this carefully. I can understand Mr Bs strong views about this. However, 
Mr B knew the appointment had been cancelled about a week before it was due to take 
place. Im aware that the situation could have been different if Mr B hadnt spoken to British 
Gas, but I cant consider hypothetical situations or make a finding on that possible scenario.
Another appointment was then moved from its original date to a week later due to the 
availability of engineers. It was then cancelled due to Covid-19 restrictions. I can understand 
Mr Bs views on this, but I can see that he was told in advance about the appointments not 
being able to take place as scheduled. Im also aware that the Covid-19 restrictions were 
outside of British Gass control. So, I think British Gas did what it could in the circumstances. 
However, Im aware this meant that Mr Bs boiler hadnt been serviced.
Given what had happened and that it might be difficult to guarantee when the annual service 
would take place, British Gas offered Mr B £260 compensation in total, including £65 for the 
cancelled boiler annual service and £65 for the cancelled gas fire service. Mr B said he 
wanted the full annual premium refunded. Ive thought about this. The policy provided two 
elements: an annual service and an emergency call-out service. Mr B didnt make use of the 
emergency call-out element, but Im aware this service was available to him had he needed 
to make use of it. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to say that British Gas should refund 
the full amount. 
Ive also thought about whether £65 was a reasonable offer for each of the missed services 
and I think that it was. British Gas has said this is how much the annual service costs as part 
of the policy. This is also the figure given in the policy booklet as the cost of that element. 
So, I think it was reasonable for British Gas to offer that amount. I should also add that even 
if British Gas cancelled another annual service appointment, as Mr B said it did, I still 
wouldnt have said that the whole premium should have been refunded. In my view, the 
appropriate action was to refund the cost of the annual service and consider whether there 
was other compensation payable, which was what British Gas did.
I also think the £130 that made up the rest of the compensation was reasonable based on 
what happened and the overall distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B by the range of 
issues with trying to arrange the annual service.
Mr B has also said British Gas should publish more details on its website about how to get in 
touch and that the CEO should have responded to him. However, it isnt within the remit of 
this service to require British Gas to do either of these things. Businesses are allowed to 
decide their own policies on how they operate, subject to any requirements set by the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. So, having considered the circumstances of this complaint, I agree that Mr B was provided 
with poor service by British Gas. However, I think British Gas appropriately dealt with this 
through the compensation offered. As a result, I dont require British Gas to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont require British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything 
further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman