DRN-4122038
The complaint
Mr P complains that IG Markets Limited didnt explicitly inform him of the charges it would 
make on his share-dealing account. 
What happened
Mr P opened an execution-only share dealing account with IG. After seeing his first-year 
statement Mr P noted that hed incurred charges he hadnt been expecting. Mr P complained 
to IG that it had hidden these charges and he had no knowledge of them. Mr P complained 
to IG and asked it to refund the charges it had taken from his account. IG said its terms and 
conditions explained its fees and charges and that by opening his account Mr P had 
confirmed hed read and understood these and that hed understood that these were also 
on-line. IG said it doesnt itemise conversion charges in yearly statements but that the 
information is available in Mr Ps live account and history page. IG said Mr P could open a 
multi-currency account by accessing his account on-line. IG didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought that IG made Mr P sufficiently 
aware of the fees, charges and foreign exchange costs within its terms and conditions. The 
IG website provided details of the charges on-line for Mr P to view at any time. The 
Investigator explained the charges were detailed on each transaction within his account 
history, which was also available on-line. Mr P didnt agree with the Investigator asked that 
an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has strong views that IG didnt explicitly tell him what charges and costs he would incur 
before he executed a trade. However, Mr P had given consent to IG providing cost and 
charges information on its website. IG explained in the terms and conditions that Mr P could 
apply for a multi-currency account on-line, or he could contact a dealer at IG. The terms and 
conditions, which Mr P accepted before he started trading, highlighted the investment risks 
associated with share dealing accounts and provided a reasonably clear explanation of any 
charges and commission IG would apply. For example:
Our Share Dealing service is not suitable for everyone. A full explanation of the risks 
associated with our Share Dealing service is set out in the Risk Disclosure Notice and you 
should ensure you fully understand such risks before entering into this Agreement with us.
Our Commission terms will be notified in writing to you, however, in the event that we do not 
notify you of the Commission terms, we will charge the standard commission rate as 
published on the Product Details section of our website.
The terms and conditions Mr P accepted at the time explained in section 2, (7) You 
acknowledge that the Product Details that apply at the time when you Buy or Sell an 
Instrument will be those displayed on our website(s), which may be updated from time to 
time. IGs terms and conditions make it reasonably clear its Mr Ps responsibility to make 
himself aware of what his base currency is. The terms and conditions on IGs website said, 
When you buy and sell shares in a currency different to your account currency, we will 
convert currencies at the time of execution based on the best available bid / offer exchange 
rates, plus our spread of 0.5%. 
Mr P provided screenshots of some of his trades from the IG app that dont show the foreign 
exchange charge or a link to what the charge was.  IG has also provided screenshots 
showing that its on-line platform has, since 2020, provided an additional link to the foreign 
exchange charge and an explanation what the charge was. IG accepts Mr P wouldnt have 
seen this if he was using his app to trade due to the limited space available on the IG app. 
Regardless of this itss my opinion that IG had already done enough to make Mr P 
reasonably aware of its charges in respect of foreign currency shares and made Mr P aware 
the terms and conditions were on-line to check out the current charges when he was 
deciding whether to place a trade.
Mr P says that IG should have done more to help him identify he may be trading in a way 
that incurred more costs than necessary. I understand Mr P has very strong feelings about 
this, and I empathise that the costs may have been different if he had a multi-currency 
account. However, IG provides an execution-only service to Mr P, and it wasnt contracted to 
provide him with advice about his trades. The terms and conditions made it reasonably clear 
that if Mr P wanted to trade foreign currency shares, he could arrange a multi-currency 
account on-line or call a dealer to set one up. The costs of each trade would also have been 
available in Mr Ps personal account history for him to see and to make an informed decision 
about whether the account he held was the right one for him based on his trading activity.
Overall, in the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied IG provided sufficient charges 
and cost information to Mr P at the time he opened his account. IG also made it reasonably 
clear to Mr P where charges and cost information was held on-line. Im persuaded this 
information was sufficient for Mr P to make an informed decision about how he should trade 
and whether he should trade shares in other currencies or open a multi-currency account.  
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint against IG Markets Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman