DRN-1628095
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out to go with a 
credit card that she applied for in November 1994. Mrs R, who is represented by a third 
party, says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds), then trading as Lloyds TSB, mis-sold her the PPI. 
She says she didnt remember the PPI being added to her card and didnt need it.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why.
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mrs R didnt have to take out the PPI. But from what Ive 
seen it looks like she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant 
remember this. 
Mrs R says she bought the PPI at meeting. Ive seen that Lloyds accepts that it made a 
recommendation that she should buy the cover and that the sale most likely happened at a 
meeting in a branch. Ive also seen a copy of the card application from on which I can see a 
box has been ticked to show that Mrs R wanted PPI added to her card. I think she would 
have had the opportunity during the meeting to discuss taking PPI with the Lloyds 
representative and then to review the application form before she signed it. So I think on 
balance Mrs R had enough opportunity to think about whether she wanted PPI to go with her 
new card and decided she did. 
Ive looked at the sale on the basis that Lloyds needed to make sure the card was suitable 
for her and also that it gave her enough information so that she could make an informed 
choice about whether she wanted to take it. I think its likely she received some information 
about the policy at the time of the sale and that she was given the full policy text either at the 
meeting or by post soon afterwards. 
But its still possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. Given that she chose to take it out, though, it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  so it would have 
been useful to her if something went wrong. 
I say this having taken into account that Mrs R told us she would have received some sick 
pay from her employer  being 6 months at full pay followed by 6 months at half pay - if she 
couldnt work due to accident or sickness. But the PPI would pay out in addition those benefits, for up to 12 months if she couldnt work due to accident or sickness, or if she lost 
her job. It also meant she wouldnt have to rely on other sources of funding. 
On the question of cost the PPI also looks like it was affordable and Mrs R hasnt made us 
aware of any particular issues with being able to pay for it.
Overall, therefore, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mrs R off 
taking out the cover. 
Ive seen that Mrs R has already been paid back some of the cost of the PPI. So based on  
my findings I dont think Lloyds needs to do anything more. 
I realise that Mrs R will find this outcome disappointing but I would like to assure her that I 
reached my finding having carefully considered all the evidence and information she has 
provided. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17August2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman