DRN-2364066
The complaint
 Mr B complains that Brightside Insurance Services Limited (Brightside) mis-sold him a 
commercial property owner insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B owns a property which he lets out as mixed use. The ground floor is a commercial 
premises and there are two residential flats on the floors above. In March 2019, Mr B was 
looking to renew his insurance cover and was in contact with Brightside. 
Mr B sent Brightside an email part of which said I need assurance that legal expense policy 
will assist me as landlord to defend any disputes that may happen with my commercial 
tenants. Brightside referred Mr Bs query to the underwriter and later responded to Mr B  
saying that the legal expenses cover was operative. 
Following this, Mr B took out the policy and paid a premium of around £1,500. Part way 
through the policy Mr B discovered that the contract and debt recovery section of his policy 
excluded a dispute with a tenant or leasee where you are the landlord. Mr B complained, 
he felt hed made clear he wanted to be covered for disputes with tenants. He felt the policy 
had been mis-sold. 
Brightside accepted there had been some confusion and offered to arrange further cover. 
But they didnt offer any redress and the matter was referred to our service. Brightside later 
offered to refund their fee from the sale of the policy which amounted to around £200. 
One of our investigators thought the complaint should be upheld. She thought the policy had 
been mis-sold. But she also concluded that Mr B hadnt taken steps to protect his position 
once he became aware he didnt have the cover he initially thought he had. Ultimately, she 
recommended that Brightside pay certain costs in the event of a claim being favourably 
assessed that had an event date between 14 April 2019 (the start of the policy) and 21 
August 2019 (when Mr B was aware he didnt have the cover he needed). This was in 
addition to refunding the broker fee which Brightside had already offered.
Both parties disagreed, Brightside had concerns that this would put Mr B in a better position 
to their detriment. Mr B felt it unfair for the dates to be limited, as he says he was awaiting 
Brightsides complaints process and was hoping they would resolve things for him.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Brightside sold Mr B the policy on an advised basis. So, they had an obligation to ensure it 
was suitable for his needs. Im satisfied that Mr B made clear that he required cover for 
contract disputes with his tenants and that Brightsides recommendation wasnt suitable as it 
didnt provide this.
I appreciate that Brightsides response to Mr B was informed by their contact from the 
underwriter. But it remains Brightsides responsibility to ensure the policy was suitable when 
making a recommendation. And Mr Bs query wasnt particularly technical or complex. So, I 
think Brightside ought to have picked up that the policy they were selling, didnt provide an 
element of cover that was important to Mr B. This was easily ascertainable from the policy 
documents. 
Had Mr B been told that this policy didnt meet his needs, on balance, I think its more likely 
than not that he would have taken out another policy that Brightside offered. This was with 
another business Ill refer to as N. Ns policy had a negligible price difference and more 
closely met his needs. 
But Mr B was aware on 21 August 2019, that the policy he had been sold didnt cover him for 
tenant disputes, and he failed to take action to ensure he had cover in place. And whilst I 
can understand his point about awaiting the outcome of Brightsides complaint investigation, 
there was no guarantee as to what that would be. Id also be more persuaded by Mr Bs 
argument if upon receipt of Brightsides final response to the complaint (in November 2019), 
he had then taken action to ensure he was covered. But whilst I accept Mr B made some 
enquiries, he hasnt said or evidenced that he did take out such cover. By not taking any 
action, Mr B in effect accepted that he was uninsured against the risk of tenant disputes. 
If Mr B had cancelled his policy and taken out another, or sourced bespoke cover until his 
next renewal was due  Id have considered directing Brightside to cover the costs incurred 
such as cancellation fees and charges. But as this didnt happen, I dont think Brightside are 
liable for any claims where the date of occurrence is outside of 14 April 2019 to 21 August 
2019. I appreciate the likelihood of a claim now materialising relating to that time period, is 
increasingly slim. But the policy with N is a claims occurring policy. This means that cover is 
available for claims that occurred within the period of insurance, rather than claims made 
during the period of cover. So its fair that this indemnity is provided, as it would have been, 
had a more suitable recommendation been made at the time. 
Mr B has alluded to a number of claims he thinks ought to be responded to. I dont think 
Brightside need to take any action in relation to these claims for the following reasons. 
Mr B was concerned about a rent dispute with his commercial tenant at the time. But the 
evidence shows that, in February 2019, he used part of the tenants deposit to make up the 
rental arrears. As such the date of occurrence for this claim (as defined in Ns policy) would 
fall outside of the period of indemnity, it pre-dates the policy inception in April 2019. 
Mr B has spoken about malicious damage to a flat roof which he believed his tenant was 
responsible for and potential legal action linked to this. But he accepts the date of 
occurrence for this was in November 2019. This is after he had an awareness that he wasnt 
covered. So, I dont think Brightside need to respond to this claim either. The same is the 
case for an allegation of damage to an internal ceiling in his commercial premises, allegedly 
caused by his tenant. I understand the date of occurrence for this to be in February 2020, 
and so again, outside the period of cover being proposed as redress.
Finally, there was a concern from Mr B that he might be held liable for a dispute over gas 
and electricity use between his properties. He says he can potentially be liable under the 
terms of the lease if a tenant doesnt pay their bills. But Mr B hasnt provided evidence that 
hes had to make a payment nor suffered a loss in this way. As such there cant be a claim to 
cover a loss if it hasnt yet occurred. So, at this time, Brightside also dont need to respond to 
this claim. Brightside voiced concerns that the proposed redress might put Mr B in a better position. 
The policy that was actually sold required that claims be made within the period of 
insurance. Ive considered this but I dont agree. The policy with N more closely met Mr Bs 
needs and the fact that this is a claims occurring, rather than a claims made policy means 
that cover should be in place. This isnt unfairly putting Mr B in a better position, it is just 
putting him in the position he would have been in, had Brightside identified that the policy 
they were selling at the time wasnt suitable. 
In summary, Im satisfied that the policy sold wasnt suitable and so, in the event of Mr B 
submitting a claim with a date of occurrence between 14 April 2019 and 21 August 2019, it 
should be dealt with in the way Ive outlined below. 
I also think that finding out he wasnt covered for a risk he had asked to be covered would 
have caused Mr B some distress and inconvenience. Brightside have already offered to 
reimburse their broker fee (which I understand to be just under £200). I think this is fair and I 
consider this sufficient to compensate for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
 
My final decision
 For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Unless theyve already done so, Brightside Insurance Services Limited must reimburse Mr B 
with their broker fee totalling £199.96. 
And in the event of Mr B making a claim with a date of occurrence between 14 April 2019 
and 21 August 2019 they must:
Appoint and pay a specialist loss adjustor to consider the claim under the same 
terms as the alternative policy offered by N (and attached to this decision). 
If the loss adjustor concludes the claim would be covered by the policy, then 
Brightside should pay for the legal expenses cover under the same terms as the 
policy with N. 
In appointing a loss adjustor, Brightside should offer Mr B the choice of two loss 
adjustors to choose from. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman