DRN-3908897
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) have failed to refund £1,350 she says 
she lost as part of a scam.
What happened
Mrs A visited a furniture shop (R) in February 2022. She paid a £300 deposit for a dining 
table on 4 March 2022, with the remaining £1,050 balance becoming payable once it was 
ready for delivery. She was contacted by R around two weeks after paying the deposit 
saying she would need to pay the balance, which she paid on 16 March 2022. Both 
transactions were authorised push payments made from her Starling account to a personal 
account in the name of Rs director. 
However, despite having paid the balance, the dining table wasnt delivered. R gave a 
variety of excuses such as the delivery van having broken down. Mrs A was assured she 
would receive the goods shed paid for, but the table never arrived. Mrs A subsequently 
established that Rs shop had closed down, and its director had disappeared, meaning she 
had lost her money. 
Mrs A contacted the police and also registered a claim with the small claims court. A county 
court judgment was issued in default as Rs director failed to attend the hearing. However, 
Mrs A has had no success in recovering the funds this way as the director cannot be located 
and has also since filed for bankruptcy.
Mrs A also sought to recover the funds through Starling under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM Code). However, Starling refused to provide a refund as it 
considered the matter to be a civil dispute and therefore out of scope for reimbursement 
under the Code.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He was satisfied that Mrs A could be considered as 
having been scammed in these circumstances, such that Starling should reimburse her 
money under the CRM Code. Starling disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to 
determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the reasons set 
out below.
Starling has signed up to the CRM Code, which was in force at the time Mrs A paid the seller 
of the furniture. Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a 
customer who has been the victim of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam. But the 
CRM Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all APPs. In this regard, it states:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for 
goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in 
some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier
Starling considers the matter between Mrs A and R to be a civil dispute and therefore 
outside of scope for reimbursement under the Code. Ive considered the evidence Mrs A has 
provided, as well as evidence provided by the receiving bank. And having done so, Im not 
persuaded the seller was a legitimate supplier for goods at the point Mrs A made the 
disputed payments from her Starling account. 
The statements from the receiving bank show that Mrs A made payment to an account in the 
name of Rs director (rather than a company account), where the money she paid was swiftly 
transferred out of the account to other individuals. The account had also been opened for 
less than a week prior to the payments being made by Mrs A, and the overall payment 
activity does not appear to be consistent with what would be expected from a legitimate 
business. I note that blocks have also since been placed on the account by the receiving 
bank as of 22 March 2022 following reports of fraud, and there are also other reports of 
people having paid money to the company and claiming they have been scammed after not 
receiving the goods they paid for. 
I appreciate that R may have originally operated as a legitimate business. But having 
considered the circumstances Ive set out above, Im satisfied its likely that Rs director set 
out to defraud Mrs A from the outset and never had any intention of providing the furniture 
she paid for. The excuses provided by the seller as to why the goods hadnt been delivered 
were also spurious at best and were not plausible with regard to why it couldnt be delivered. 
So, on balance, Im satisfied the seller did not have any legitimate intention at the point 
Mrs A made her purchase, but rather has shown an intent to defraud, and I do not consider 
this to be the type of civil matter excluded under the CRM Code.
The Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim of APP scams, 
like the one Mrs A has fallen victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. Other 
than submitting that Mrs As dispute is a civil matter, Starling hasnt put forwards any other 
substantive reasons as to why any of the exceptions within the Code should apply. And 
having reviewed the evidence, Im not persuaded that any of the exceptions would apply 
either. Ive not seen, for example, that an effective warning was provided that was ignored by 
Mrs A. And neither do I think she had no reasonable basis for believing that the seller had 
genuine intentions, given she had visited the shop and had received invoices for what she 
thought she had purchased. 
Therefore, Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for Starling to 
refund the disputed payments Mrs A made to R. I am aware that Mrs A also has a county 
court judgment for the full amount to be recovered from Rs director. So, should she 
eventually be successful in recovering her money through the judgment, she will be liable to 
reimburse Starling the amount it has paid her. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint and direct Starling Bank Limited to:
Refund the total value of the two disputed transactions (£1,350).
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount from the date Starling declined 
Mrs As claim under the CRM Code until the date of settlement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman