DRN-3748009
The complaint
Miss C has complained that Nationwide Building Society wont refund transactions she says 
she didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In July 2021, several payments were made from Miss Cs mobile banking to an individual 
and several companies, over the course of over a week.
Miss C says this wasnt her. She says her card and phone did not go missing in 2021, and 
neither did any of the other valuables she kept in the same place. She didnt give anyone 
else access to her card or phone, and her phone was protected by a password. She hadnt 
told anyone her PIN, it was a random number assigned by the bank, and the only record of it 
was in a file at home amongst other banking paperwork. She had not written down her online 
banking passcode or shared it with anyone. She lived and worked at home, where only her 
immediate family lived. She was certain that no one she knew could have done this.
Nationwide held Miss C liable for the payments in dispute. They found theyd been made on 
her phone, at her usual IP address, authenticated by her genuine card and PIN.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Miss C 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive taken into account everything both sides have said, though Ive focused on 
the key points. And Im grateful to Miss C for being candid and open with us in her testimony 
 I understand that shes been through a tough time, for which she has my sympathy.
I need to decide whether Nationwide can hold Miss C liable for the disputed transactions or 
not. Broadly speaking, Nationwide can hold Miss C liable for the payments in dispute if the 
evidence suggests that she authorised them.
Im satisfied from Nationwides technical evidence that the payments in dispute used 
Miss Cs genuine mobile banking app, on her phone, with two-factor authentication. So I can 
see that these transactions were properly authenticated. The question, then, is whether the 
evidence suggests that its most likely Miss C consented to the transactions, or not.
First, Ive considered the possibility that an unknown fraudster used Miss Cs account.
The only device registered to Miss Cs account was her genuine phone  the same one she 
used for her normal activity. This was the device that was used for the disputed payments. 
Miss C did not lose this phone or give anyone else access to it, it was password protected, 
and she was still using it for genuine activity in between the disputed payments. So there is 
no likely or plausible way that an unknown party couldve had repeated physical possession 
of Miss Cs phone for over a week without her noticing.
Miss C brought up the possibility of hacking, saying that she found a virus on the phone 
afterwards. But shes not been able to provide any evidence of this virus. And while hacking 
does happen sometimes, theres no evidence which shows or substantiates that her phone 
was hacked here. Indeed, from what Miss C told us, she didnt download any suspicious 
apps or click any suspicious links or anything like that. And the only suspicious call she 
received was when someone called from a blocked number and shouted at her before she 
ended the call  but thats not a possible method for hacking a phone. You cant hack 
someones phone by calling from an unknown number and shouting at them. So there 
doesnt seem to be a likely way that her phone was hacked. And importantly, the disputed 
payments were made from the exact same IP address that Miss C used for her other 
genuine spending  which also supports that this was not a case of hacking.
Further, the person using Miss Cs phone used her online banking passcode. And Miss C 
had not recorded the passcode anywhere or told it to anyone. So theres no likely or 
plausible way that an unknown fraudster wouldve known it.
Even more importantly, these payments required Miss Cs genuine physical card to be put in 
a card reader, along with her correct PIN, as a second form of authentication. And I can see 
from the electronic records that this was done successfully here in order to put through the 
disputed payments. To clarify, it does not matter which individual card reader was used; but 
this did require Miss Cs real, physical card. It could not be done with a cloned card, nor with 
just her card details as she suggested. So Im satisfied that Miss Cs real physical card was 
used, along with the correct PIN, to make the disputed payments.
Miss Cs card did not go missing  which I can see since she was using it for genuine 
spending in between the disputed payments. And an unknown fraudster would not have 
been able to repeatedly find Miss C, steal her card, use it for a payment, then find her again 
and give her card back to her, again and again for each new payee, without her ever 
noticing. There would also be no good reason for a thief to give Miss C her card back  it 
would drastically increase their chances of getting caught while substantially cutting down 
the amount they could steal.
I also dont see a likely or plausible way that an unknown party couldve learned Miss Cs 
PIN without her permission. It was a random number, she hadnt entered it recently before 
the disputed payments started so there was no recent opportunity to watch her putting it in, 
she hadnt told it to anyone, and the only record of it was safe at home. 
As such, there is not a likely or plausible way that an unknown party did this.It is possible that someone known to Miss C may have made the transactions without her 
permission, such as a family member. But I dont think its likely. It still would have been very 
difficult for them to have gained access to all of Miss Cs phone, her phones password, her 
card, and her PIN. Its not clear how they couldve learned her online banking passcode. And 
its not especially likely that theyd be able to repeatedly use Miss Cs physical card and 
phone without her ever noticing. Further, Miss C was certain that no one she knew could or 
would have done this  so it seems shes effectively ruled out this possibility herself.
Lastly, Ive considered the possibility that the disputed payments could have been made with 
Miss Cs consent.
I mightve expected a thief to try to withdraw as much money as possible, as quickly as 
possible, before the account gets blocked. But here, there were very large gaps between the 
disputed transactions  up to several days. And the person using Miss Cs account did not 
take nearly as much as they could have, leaving significant money still available. There were 
even credits into Miss Cs account from the disputed payees.
Further, there were no further attempts to pay the disputed payees after Miss C blocked her 
account  so it seems the person using the account knew it was blocked.
I also note that in between the disputed payments, Miss C logged into her online banking 
and carried out genuine activity, like paying a family member. So she wouldve seen the 
disputed transactions while they were still happening. But she didnt report them until after 
they were finished. Its unlikely that Miss C would wait to report the disputed payments if they 
were made without her consent.
Lastly, Ive not seen any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Miss C 
couldve authorised these payments or given someone else permission to make them. 
Miss C pointed out that the payments used a name thats not the one she usually goes by. 
But it was a genuine alias of hers, so I dont find that to be significant.
In summary, Im satisfied that Miss Cs genuine mobile phone, IP address, online banking 
passcode, card, and PIN were used to make the disputed payments. Based on the evidence, 
there isnt a likely way an unknown person did this, or that someone known to Miss C did this 
without her permission. Indeed, Miss C herself seems to have ruled out that possibility. That 
leaves only one likely possibility  that Miss C made the transactions or gave someone else 
permission to make them. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult 
message for Miss C to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of 
probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
So based on everything Ive seen, I think its fair for Nationwide to decline a refund in this 
case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 Adam Charles
Ombudsman