DRN-2880171
The complaint
Mr C complains Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) unfairly declined a 
fire damage claim he made on his car insurance policy. Hes also unhappy about its decision 
to cancel the policy.
Reference to Watford also includes agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts about what happened are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons 
for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) isnt 
relevant to what happened in Mr Cs case. CIDRA only applies where a consumer 
fails to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation to an insurer when 
taking out, renewing or notifying of an amendment to a consumer insurance contract 
(a policy). Here, Mr C failed to notify Watford hed had his cars alloy wheels painted 
black since taking out his policy.
Mr Cs policy does require him to notify Watford of any modifications to his car during 
the term of the policy. It also entitles Watford to, amongst other things, cancel the 
insurance contract or reject a claim if theres a breach of that condition. I think these 
terms are made sufficiently clear in the policy documentation. So, Im satisfied Mr C 
should have let Watford know he intended to paint the wheels, and he didnt. 
In certain cases, it might be reasonable for the insurer to vary the terms or cancel the 
policy mid- term when a condition is breached. Our service considers these actions 
are reasonable only when the nature of the risk the insurer agrees to insure changes 
fundamentally. By entering into an insurance contract, the insurer effectively agrees 
to cover the policyholder against certain contingencies such as changes of a more 
minor nature. Generally, if a policyholders circumstances change during the term of 
the policy, we see that as a part of the general risk that insurers take on. So, 
I wouldnt expect an insurer to cancel a policy mid-term for changes which are not 
fundamental. Ive kept this in mind when considering whats fair and reasonable in 
Mr Cs case.
Watford has said its unable to demonstrate painting wheels, specifically, is an 
unacceptable risk according to its underwriting criteria. It says the nearest example 
relates to paint work  Paint Work  Non Standard  which it considers as 
unacceptable modification. Ive given this a lot of thought and while I accept it could 
be argued painting wheels falls under this category, in my opinion, Mr Cs failure to 
notify Watford didnt significantly change the nature of the risk. His car had alloy 
wheels as standard and the only difference or change was the black paint. In my 
opinion, think this had a negligible impact on the performance of the car or the 
likelihood of it being stolen or damaged. In any event, the damage Mr Cs claimed for 
was caused by an electrical fault. 
So, when thinking about whats fair and reasonable in this particular case, Im not 
persuaded the change Mr C made mid-term was fundamental to the risk Watford 
agreed to insure when it entered into a contract with him. It follows I dont consider it 
was fair or reasonable of Watford to rely on a change of risk to decline the claim, or 
to cancel Mr Cs policy. 
Ive also considered the impact Watfords decision to decline Mr Cs claim and cancel 
his policy had on him. Hes told us hes been experiencing financial difficulties and 
I think Watfords actions will have caused him further distress. If Watford had settled 
Mr Cs claim fairly I think it is likely to have had a positive impact on his mental 
health, which hes told us has been affected adversely. I consider Mr C has been put 
through some trouble and upset as a result of Watfords actions. So, its only fair this 
is recognised. I dont think Watford needs to reinstate Mr Cs policy as it would have 
lapsed by now had it run to its term. But I consider the investigators recommendation 
of £200 to be fair compensation in the circumstances.  
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Ive found it was unfair of Watford to rely on a change of risk to decline Mr Cs claim and to 
cancel the policy. In the circumstances, to resolve this complaint, Watford Insurance 
Company Europe Limited should:
Settle Mr Cs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions terms of the policy 
(less any excess or outstanding premiums). If settlement is by way of a payment, it 
needs to pay interest* at a rate of 8% simple per year, calculated from the date of 
loss until the date of settlement.
Remove any record of Mr Cs policy cancellation from or on its records as well as any 
external databases.
Pay Mr C £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its caused him.
* If Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited considers its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs (HMRC) to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct Watford 
Insurance Company Europe Limited to settle the complaint as set out in the previous 
section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman