DRN-2880542
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc failed to complete a balance transfer request, as the 
limit they agreed for his new credit card with them wasnt sufficient. This meant that he 
incurred interest charges with another credit card provider. 
What happened
In September 2020, Mr B completed an online application for a credit card account with 
Santander. Santanders offer allowed for balance transfers which would be free of interest 
charges for an initial period. Mr B wanted to transfer £9,396 he owed to another credit card 
provider. He included this amount in his application. 
Santander confirmed to Mr B that his card application was successful. But they later told him 
that the balance transfer request hadnt been processed. So, Mr B contacted Santander to 
find out why. Santander said that the limit theyd agreed wasnt enough to cover the transfer 
hed requested. 
Mr B wasnt happy with Santanders response. He said he hadnt been told what his limit 
was. He said that if hed known, he wouldve arranged to repay the amount owed on another 
card from savings. So, Mr B complained to Santander. He said that as a result of 
Santanders failure to complete the transfer, as requested, his existing credit card provider 
had charged interest on the amount that he owed. He wanted Santander to apologise for 
their mistake and reimburse the interest charges hed incurred.
Mr B says that he didnt hear any more from Santander about his complaint. So, in January 
2021, he contacted them again. Santander told him that his complaint hadnt been upheld. 
But Santander hadnt sent a letter to Mr B confirming this. 
Santander wrote to Mr B in January 2021. They confirmed that they hadnt upheld his 
original complaint. They didnt believe theyd done anything wrong. But they did say that the 
letter responding to his original complaint didnt appear to have been sent to him. They 
apologised for this and paid £30 as compensation for their mistake here.
Mr B wasnt happy with Santanders response. He wanted Santander to refund the interest 
charges hed incurred together with a payment for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
He decided to refer his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint. She didnt think 
that Santander had done anything wrong or acted unfairly in these circumstances. She also 
thought that Santanders payment of £30, reflecting the way in which theyd handled Mr Bs 
complaint, appeared fair.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators findings. So, he asked for his complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander have provided a copy of the information provided by Mr B when he completed his 
online credit card application. The application provides the ability for Mr B to include any 
balance transfer(s) that he wishes to complete. I can see that Mr B detailed an amount to be 
transferred of £9,396. 
Mr Bs application was for a Santander All in One Credit Card. Ive read Santanders 
related Key Facts Document. It includes the Pre-Contractual Explanation, Pre-Contract 
Credit Information and the Statement of Lender and Borrower Responsibilities. The 
Summary Box & Key Information states, Maximum credit limit subject to status. This is 
usual within a credit card application. Santander, in line with most lenders, uses their own 
assessment criteria to decide whether a credit card account is offered. They also use the 
criteria to decide what limit theyre able to provide. 
Santanders assessment will consider a number of factors including the information provided 
by Mr B and also obtained from credit reference agencies. They would normally consider Mr 
Bs existing credit history and track record before reaching any decision. 
Where one lender may lend, another may not, I wouldnt expect any lender to provide full 
details of their lending criteria as this would be commercially sensitive. But I would expect 
Santander to have reasonably assessed Mr Bs ability to repay any amount borrowed from 
them. It appears that Santander did that here.
Santanders Pre-Contractual Explanation states When making a balance transfer, the 
minimum amount is £100, and the maximum amount must not exceed 95% of your available 
credit limit. Under the section headed Key features of the credit product it states, We will 
tell you your credit limit when you first receive your card. We will determine your credit limit 
based upon your ability to repay.
Mr B says he wasnt told what credit limit was agreed by Santander. So, I asked Santander 
how and when the credit limit agreed was communicated to Mr B. Santander said that the 
limit agreed was £3,900. They said that this limit was detailed on the letter which 
accompanied the credit card sent to Mr B. Theyve provided a sample copy of this letter. It 
clearly shows the limit agreed at the top of the letter in a box to the right of the name and 
address.
Mr B said, once he found out the balance transfer hadnt taken place, he paid off his credit 
card balance owed from savings. He believes that if Santander had clearly informed him the 
balance transfer wouldnt take place, he wouldve acted sooner to repay the balance and not 
incur interest.
Santander have provided a copy of a letter sent to Mr B which confirms that his balance 
transfer request hadnt been processed. So, it seems that Santander met their obligation 
here. Mr Bs application was for a credit card. It included a balance transfer request. The fact 
that Santander werent able to agree a limit sufficient to cover this amount wouldnt lead 
them to decline Mr Bs application outright. Mr B had the option to transfer a reduced amount 
and avoid any related interest costs with another account provider. He also had the option to 
explore other providers and options.
While I do have sympathy for Mr Bs situation here, I cant reasonably hold Santander 
responsible for not being able to agree a limit sufficient to cover the amount that Mr B 
wanted to transfer. That is a commercial decision for Santander and not one that I would 
reasonably question. I also cant reasonably hold Santander responsible for interest costs 
incurred on any debt that Mr B held elsewhere. They wouldnt have had any control over 
this.
As regards Santanders handling of Mr Bs complaint, Santander paid Mr B £30 recognising 
that they had failed to send their response letter to his original complaint. This appears 
reasonable in the circumstances.  But Santanders complaint handling process is not a 
regulated activity. So, it wouldnt be an area that this service can consider.
I appreciate that Mr B will be disappointed, but I dont think Santander have acted unfairly 
here. They considered Mr Bs application on its own merits and agreed to provide a credit card account and limit. Unfortunately, the limit wasnt sufficient to meet Mr Bs needs. They 
confirmed the limit agreed, when they issued a card, and they wrote to Mr B when they 
couldnt complete the transfer requested. Although Mr B incurred interest costs elsewhere, I 
cant reasonably hold Santander responsible for that.
I think its also fair to say that if Mr Bs application had been submitted earlier, there may still 
have been time to explore alternative options before incurring interest costs on his existing 
credit card debt. While Mr B wouldve known when interest would be incurred on his existing 
debt, Santander wouldnt have known this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman