DRN-4371766
The complaint
Mr F complains that Scottish Widows Limited (SW) hasnt managed his stakeholder pension 
plan well.
What happened
Mr F has had a stakeholder pension plan with SW since 2003. At the time he started the 
plan, he was married, employed and earning just over £11,000. 
The application form for the plan shows that Mr F chose to invest in three separate funds. 
Mr F was unhappy with the performance of his plan. So he contacted SW on 11 May 2023 to 
tell it he was disappointed with that and the overall value of his plan.
SW didnt think itd done anything wrong. On 15 May 2023 it told Mr F that it wasnt 
responsible for the performance of the plan. It explained to Mr F that the performance of his 
funds depended on market movements, which were outside of its control.  
Unhappy with SWs response, Mr F brought his complaint to this service. 
SW confirmed to our investigator that Mr F could switch to different funds if he wanted to. 
And that he didnt currently have an IFA listed against his plan.
Our investigator asked Mr F if hed considered switching funds over the last few years. And 
when hed first realised that the performance wasnt what hed expected. She also asked him 
what performance hed been expecting. And what had led him to expect that performance.
Mr F said he felt that his fund should now be worth around £24,000, which he felt was 
realistic if SW had invested wisely. He said he also wanted SW to return the management 
fees hed paid, given the poor job he felt itd done.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said shed couldnt see any 
evidence that SW had mismanaged Mr Fs plan. 
Mr F didnt agree with our investigator. He said hed relied on SW to invest his money wisely 
and to get a good return for his retirement. He felt that a more cautious investment approach 
wouldve been better suited to him. And that SW shouldve advised him better regarding his 
investments with it, as he wasnt informed enough to make investment decisions himself.
Mr F also asked our investigator to arrange for SW to provide further information about his 
plan. Our investigator explained that Mr F should ask SW directly for that information. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be disappointing for Mr F. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision.
Firstly, I think its important to explain that SW acted solely as the administrator of Mr Fs 
pension. Its not authorised to provide any investment advice, but to act as directed by Mr F 
in relation to any investment decisions relating to his pension.
So although Mr F considers that SW shouldve advised him about his investments and told 
him to take a more cautious investment approach, I dont agree. SW wasnt authorised to 
advise Mr F how to invest his funds. Instead, its Mr Fs, or his IFAs, responsibility to monitor 
the performance of his investments and ensure they are suitable for his circumstances. 
Although Mr F couldnt be sure who chose his initial investments, the application form shows 
that he chose them himself, or with the help of his Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) at the 
time. The annual statements SW sent Mr F over the years reminded him to review his 
investments from time to time to ensure they still met his needs. Im also satisfied that 
investment information was readily available to Mr F. Therefore I consider that if hed wanted 
to change his investments if he was concerned about performance, he could have.
I can see that Mr Fs plan was being invested in line with the investments he chose when he 
applied for the plan in 2003. I cant see anything to suggest Mr F provided SW with 
alternative investment instructions after that. So I think it correctly invested his money in line 
with his instructions. 
In summary, SW wasnt responsible for ensuring Mr Fs funds were appropriate for him. And 
I havent seen anything to suggest SW mismanaged his plan, as it followed his investment 
instructions. As such, I cant fairly ask it to return the management fees it charged him. Nor 
can I reasonably ask it to compensate him for what he considers the poor performance.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman