DRN-4460335
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs E complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) have unfairly declined a
claim made under their commercial property insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs E own a house which they rent out to a tenant. The rental property is insured 
with AXA. In August 2020, they made a claim on their policy as cracks had appeared in the 
garage wall following a neighbour removing land next to the garage. AXA initially declined 
the claim under the subsidence section of the policy. Mr M and Mrs E didnt agree with this 
and so referred the complaint here. 
Another Ombudsman at this service issued a final decision on 26 March 2023. The 
Ombudsman didnt uphold the complaint as AXA had said another report was needed to 
determine the cause of the cracking, which the Ombudsman thought was fair. Following the 
decision AXA appointed a loss adjuster to complete a report on the garage which said the 
damage wasnt something covered by the policy. Unhappy with the claim still being declined, 
Mr M and Mrs E raised another complaint. 
AXA reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the claim didnt fall within the scope 
of the policy and maintained its position that the claim wasnt covered. Mr M and Mrs E didnt 
agree and referred the complaint here. They said the garage had been damaged by the 
neighbour removing soil from next to one of the walls and thought the claim should be 
covered under the accidental damage section of the policy. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and explained that she could only consider what 
had happened between the previous final decision and AXA issuing its final response on 26 
May 2023. She didnt think AXA had done anything wrong by declining the claim but did find 
that it hadnt handled it well. Particularly around explaining the outcome it had reached. AXA 
agreed to pay £300 compensation for the poor claim handling which our investigator thought 
was fair. 
Mr M and Mrs E didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. So, the complaint 
has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my findings, I would like to clarify that in this decision Im only able to 
consider whats happened between the previous final decision being issued and AXA issuing 
its final response letter. So, in this decision, I will only be considering what happened 
between 26 March 2023 and 26 May 2023. 
Mr M and Mrs E have said the accidental damage section of the policy should cover the 
claim. This is because the removal of land by a neighbour has caused damage to the 
garage. Ive therefore reviewed this section to see whether AXA has acted fairly by declining 
the claim.
 Under the accidental damage section, the terms and conditions of the policy says: 
The Buildings section is extended to include the following cause
 Any other damage excluding
4    the collapse or cracking of building(s)
There are other exclusions listed but Ive not listed them here and have highlight one quoted 
by AXA. Ive also reviewed the loss adjusters report completed on 19 April 2023 which says:
As advised at our meeting, the garage has been affected by an 
uninsured peril [sic]
We have reviewed the Accidental Damage wording and confirm there is 
no policy cover.
 
In regards to the damage, and our obervations. [sic] 
It would be expected that the garage builder would take into 
considersation [sic] the land around the structure. 
Therefore, using a neighbours [sic] garden to support the garage 
foundations would be considered poor planning
When reviewing the cause of the damage, the removal of supporting land by the neighbour, 
and the policy terms. Im satisfied AXA has acted fairly and reasonably by declining the 
claim. I say this as the cause of damage is reported to most likely be the removal of land 
from the neighbours garden and Mr M and Mrs E agree with this. The question here is 
whether this is accidental damage and covered by the policy. 
The policy doesnt define accidental damage. However, I dont think that makes a 
difference because even if this is accidental damage and therefore an event covered by the 
policy, Im satisfied there are exclusions which relate to this event. So, Im not going to make 
a finding on whether this is an insured event under the policy here. 
The exclusion AXA has referred to is referenced above. The damage to Mr M and Mrs Es 
garage is cracking in the walls. And, as this is specifically excluded, Im satisfied its not 
covered by the policy. The loss adjusters report also refers to faulty or defective 
workmanship, as it refers to poor planning. Faulty or defective workmanship is also excluded 
under the policy. 
I appreciate Mr M and Mrs E dont agree that these exclusions apply and think the claim 
should be covered under this section as there is damage to the garage. However, without 
further persuasive evidence to show the cause of damage is one covered by the policy, Im 
not persuaded AXA has acted unfairly by declining the claim. 
Ive also considered AXAs poor claim handling. AXA hasnt clearly explained the reasons for 
declining the claim and has acknowledged this. Its also offered £300 in compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience this has caused. Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable 
amount, so Im not going to tell AXA to pay anymore.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr M and Mrs E £300 for distress and inconvenience, 
if not already done so.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman