DRN-2817882
The complaint
Mrs T complains about the assessment made by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva)
of her late husbands life assurance claim, and the amount she has been paid.
What happened
In November 2006 Mr and Mrs T took out a joint decreasing life assurance policy to cover
their outstanding mortgage. At this time Aviva offered a mortgage shortfall guarantee as part
of this policy. This meant that if the sum assured for a successful claim was less than the
amount owed on the mortgage, the outstanding amount would also be paid. One of the
conditions of this guarantee was that the difference should be solely due to changes in
interest rates.
In May 2018 Mr T was sadly diagnosed with cancer and in October 2019 he passed away.
At this time Mrs T made a claim on the policy which was accepted and Aviva paid the claim
from the date Mr T passed away. However, Mrs T was left with a shortfall in her mortgage.
Mrs T asked Aviva why there was a shortfall given the guarantee it had offered. Mrs T also
spoke to Aviva about the fact the policy offered a terminal illness benefit. Mrs T said that it
was only in October 2019 that she realised this was available under her policy. She told
Aviva that had she known this, she and her late husband would have put in a claim when he
was diagnosed. So, Mrs T also asked Aviva to consider back-dating the claim under the
terminal illness part of the policy and provided some medical evidence in support of this.
Aviva assessed the information and back-dated the claim to 1 March 2019 as it said this was
the earliest point it could be satisfied that the terminal illness criteria was met. This made no
difference to the sum assured (which changed on an annual basis on 1 November) but Aviva
paid additional interest on the sum assured from 1 March 2019 until the claim was actually
paid. It also refunded the premiums Mr and Mrs T had paid during this time. Aviva said there
would be no additional payment due under the mortgage shortfall guarantee - it explained
that the shortfall Mrs T had wasnt due to interest rates.
Mrs T remained unhappy as she felt the claim should be payable from the date Mr T was
diagnosed with terminal cancer, which was in May 2018. She also felt she should be
covered by the mortgage shortfall guarantee. So she complained, but Aviva didnt change its
decision.
Mrs T then brought her concerns to our service. Mrs T told us shed taken out an extension
on the mortgage and drawn down equity. But she felt that about £11,000 of the shortfall was
due to increased interest rates and should have been covered.
Mrs T thought it was unreasonable that Aviva had just relied on the information shed given
and not approached Mr Ts medical professionals.
Aviva told us it was only obliged to pay the claim from the date it was notified.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ts complaint as they felt the medical evidence didnt
conclusively show that Mr Ts prognosis was less than 12 months at any time
before March 2019. They also thought the mortgage shortfall wasnt a result of raised
interest rates.
Mrs T didnt agree with this assessment. She provided additional medical evidence to our
service in support of her claim that Mr T was terminally ill prior to March 2019. Mrs T also
complained that shed offered to obtain this evidence for Aviva previously, but it refused to
agree to consider it.
Our service shared the additional evidence and Mrs Ts further concerns with Aviva. It said
that the information didnt alter its decision and said it had made a fair decision beyond its
contractual obligations. It also agreed I could consider this complaint as part of this decision.
After reviewing the evidence, I felt it was likely Id reach the same outcome as the
investigator but for slightly different reasons. I also needed to consider new complaint points. 
So, I shared my provisional findings with Mrs T and Aviva so they had the opportunity to 
make any comments or provide further evidence before a final decision was issued.
What I provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about Mrs Ts loss and the fact she now finds herself in a difficult
situation where the life assurance payment didnt fully cover the cost of her mortgage.
But having considered things carefully, I dont think Aviva has acted unreasonably here  Ill
explain why.
For a claim to be accepted under the terminal illness section of the policy, the terms and
conditions clearly state that the life assured must be diagnosed with an advanced or rapidly
progressing incurable condition which is, in the opinion of the Companys medical advisor,
such that the life expectancyis no greater than twelve months from the date the condition
is notified to the Company by the Planholder.
It's clear from the policy wording that the claim is payable from the date Aviva is notified.
So, Aviva is correct in saying that it isnt contractually obliged to pay the claim any earlier
than this. In this instance it was notified in October 2019.
Aviva chose to consider the medical evidence Mrs T initially provided and agreed to pay the
claim from March 2019.
Mrs T is unhappy that Aviva didnt attempt to obtain further information to investigate from
when the retrospective terminal illness claim was payable. Shes also unhappy that it refused
to consider additional information she wanted to obtain in support of an earlier payment date.
Ultimately, I think Avivas actions comply with the terms and conditions of the policy. So, its
fulfilled the contractual agreement it made with Mr and Mrs T. It then went above and
beyond this, to the benefit of Mrs T, when it agreed to backdate the claim to March 2019.
Given it was under no obligation to do so, I think this was fair in the circumstances.
I appreciate Mrs T feels that it should fully investigate a retrospective terminal illness claim
and consider if it was appropriate to pay it from an earlier date. But theres no contractual
requirement for Aviva to do this. Even though Aviva chose to backdate the claim to
March 2019 on the basis of some medical evidence, I dont think that means it was then
obligated to investigate or consider further medical evidence.Ive considered whether it would, nevertheless, be fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances for me to direct Aviva to do so  but I dont think it is. A terminal illness
payment is an early payment of the sum assured on a life assurance policy. This enables the
terminally ill individual to have access to the money for whatever purpose they deem
appropriate before they pass away. So, retrospectively considering such a payment isnt in
line with its fundamental purpose, and the assessment of any such claim is made much
harder by the passage of time and the benefit of hindsight  something Aviva isnt
responsible for. Whilst I can understand why Mrs T wants Aviva to do more here, I dont
think it has acted unfairly in choosing not to do so. Had Aviva told Mrs T that it would only
pay the claim from October 2019, I would have considered this reasonable.
In light of Mrs Ts complaint, and whilst matters were being considered by our service, Aviva
has now looked at the new evidence Mrs T provided. It has confirmed that this doesnt alter
its position. Whilst it doesnt think this evidence shows Mr T met the terminal illness definition
earlier, Aviva still maintains that it doesnt need to consider this evidence. Taking everything
into account, I think this is reasonable. But I think it might help Mrs T to understand that
having personally reviewed the evidence and Avivas observations about it, I also agree that
it doesnt persuasively demonstrate Mr T met the definition outlined in the policy any earlier
that the March 2019 date.
I say this noting many of the letters Mrs T has provided were written recently. I think such
evidence carries less weight as it can be impacted by both the passage of time and the
benefit of hindsight. And whilst I appreciate the recent consultant letters reflect on
contemporaneous medical records, I still dont think they show Mr T met the definition.
They suggest the average life expectancy on diagnosis was 12 months. But an average of
12 months is not the same as stating Mr Ts life expectancy being no greater than twelve
months, which is what the terms and conditions of the policy require.
Mrs T has also provided evidence Mr T received government terminal illness benefit from
July 2018. But Aviva said this benefit is awarded on the basis death could be reasonably
expected in six months/your health professional wouldnt be surprised if death occurred
within the next six months. Aviva has said this is a lower threshold than its policy definition
and so the fact Mr T qualified for government terminal illness benefit doesnt satisfy it that
hed met the policy definition at that time. Looking at both definitions, I think this is fair.
Ive then looked at the mortgage shortfall in light of the guarantee the policy offers.
Having done so the evidence indicates that the reason for the shortfall is not due to the
increased interest rates on the mortgage but because additional funds were borrowed.
The shortfall is therefore a combination of the additional borrowing and the resulting interest
from this borrowing. So, Im satisfied Aviva is correct in saying this guarantee doesnt apply
here and I dont think it needs to do anything further in relation to this.
For all of the reasons Ive outlined above, I think Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably in the
handling of this claim and I dont think it needs to consider if the claim is payable from an 
earlier date.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mrs T nor Aviva had anything further to add after receiving my provisional findings, 
so I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman