DRN-3418841
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the service she received from HSBC UK Bank Plc when she asked
them for assistance during a period where she was struggling financially, including that
HSBC ultimately defaulted her account.
What happened
In April 2020, Mrs H contacted HSBC and requested a payment holiday on her personal loan
account because she had been financially impacted as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic
that was emerging globally at that time. HSBC agreed to a three-month payment holiday
which ended at the start of July 2020. Following this, Mrs H was still experiencing financial
difficulty and asked HSBC for continuing financial assistance. HSBC offered Mrs H a six-
month long-term affordability plan, during which time no monthly payments were required
from Mrs H but where arrears would accrue on the account if no payments were made and
where those arrears would be reported as such to the credit reference agencies.
Mrs H didnt make any payments during this plan, and the arrears on her account grew
accordingly. In September 2020, because of the arrears on the account, HSBC issued a
default notice to Mrs H, and the account was subsequently defaulted for non-payment in
November 2020. Mrs H wasnt happy about this, and she didnt feel that HSBC had provided
her with the financial support that they should have done. So, she raised a complaint.
HSBC looked at Mrs Hs complaint. They felt that had initially explained the nature of the six-
month long-term affordability plan correctly to Mrs H, but they felt that when Mrs H had
contacted them in October 2020, having received the default notice sent to her the previous
month, that they could have provided a clearer explanation to Mrs H at that time as to what
might happen on the account moving forwards. Because of this, HSBC made a payment of
£100 to Mrs H to compensate her for any inconvenience that shed incurred.
Mrs H wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and liaised with Mrs H and HSBC about it,
at which time HSBC offered to make a further compensation payment of £400 to Mrs H. Our
investigator felt that this further offer of compensation from HSBC represented a fair and
reasonable resolution to what had taken place, including that Mrs Hs account had been
defaulted for non-payment, which our investigator felt had been fair.
Mrs H remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 9 March 2022 as follows:
In April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published temporary guidance
regarding the provision of three-month payment holidays to eligible consumers who 
were experiencing difficulty meeting the payments due on their credit accounts 
because of financial difficulties brought about by the impact of Covid-19. The FCA 
guidance included that, for these three-month payment holidays only, the reporting of 
these payment holidays to the credit reference agencies would be suspended, so 
that an eligible consumer who benefited from such a payment holiday didnt have 
their credit file impacted by doing so.
When Mrs H fist contacted HSBC, she was given one of these three-month FCA 
prescribed payment holidays which covered the payments that would have been 
required on the account in April, May, and June 2020.
On 1 July 2020, the FCA published continuing guidance, as a result of the ongoing 
nature of the Covid-19 pandemic, which explained that if a consumer had been 
granted a three-month payment holiday that had ended, if that consumer was still in 
financial difficulty that they should be granted a second three-month payment holiday 
on the same terms  that is, that interest would continue to be charged but that 
arrears wouldnt be considered as having accrued and wouldnt be reported to the 
credit reference agencies.
It therefore seems apparent that HSBC should have given Mrs H a second FCA 
prescribed three-month payment holiday in July 2020, rather than setting up the six-
month arrangement that they did, where Mrs H wasnt required to make payments 
towards the account but where arrears were considered to have accrued when 
payments werent made and where those missed payments were reported to the 
credit reference agencies. And I feel that its difficult to reach any conclusion other 
than that Mrs H has incurred an unfair detriment by not being provided with the FCA 
prescribed financial support by HSBC that she should have.
Had Mrs H been given the second FCA prescribed three-month payment holiday, this 
would have covered the payments due on her account for the months of July, 
August, and September 2020, meaning that at the end of September, Mrs Hs 
account would have been in a position of having no arrears with the payments on the 
account scheduled to resume the following month.
Furthermore, a third set of guidance issued by the FCA explained that consumers in 
the position that Mrs H should have been in here  who had had two lots of three-
month payment holidays but whom might still be experiencing financial difficulty 
because of the impact of Covid-19  should continue to be given ongoing financial 
assistance by credit providers such as HSBC following the end of the second three-
month payment holiday.
This further financial assistance should be tailored to the consumers circumstances 
at that time and wouldnt benefit from the same terms as the prior three-month 
payment holidays, meaning that any missed payments should be considered as the 
accrual of arrears on the account and reported as such to the credit reference 
agencies.
Mrs H has herself explained that her financial situation was always due to improve in
December 2020, when other financial commitments were fulfilled, and that she could 
have resumed payments on this account in that month. And Mrs H has stated that 
she has made payments towards the disputed default balance from December 2020 
onwards.It therefore seems reasonable that had HSBC followed the FCAs guidance here, that 
Mrs H would have received two lots of three-month payment holidays where no 
arrears were considered to have accrued on the account, and should then benefited 
from continuing financial assistance. Its difficult not to expect that this would have 
involved a conversation between Mrs H and HSBC where I feel Mrs H would have 
advised HBC of her impending ability to resume payments in December 2020, such 
that some form of financial assistance should reasonably have been provided to Mrs 
H by HSBC for the months of October and November 2020 to facilitate this 
resumption of payments.
Importantly, in this scenario, Mrs Hs account doesnt reach a state of arrears where 
the defaulting of that account occurs. And by not providing the FCA prescribed 
financial support that I have outlined above to Mrs H, I find it difficult to conclude 
anything other than that HSBCs actions have unfairly led to the defaulting of Mrs Hs 
account and to Mrs H incurring the kind of damaging credit reporting in the face of 
the effects of Covid-19 that the FCA guidance was designed specifically to protect 
consumers such as Mrs H against.
All of which means that my provisional decision is that I will be upholding this 
complaint in Mrs Hs favour and instructing HSBC to rework the account so as to 
remove all adverse reporting on the account from April 2020 onwards, including the 
default, and to apply all payments made by Mrs H from late 2020 onwards to reduce 
the balance of the account as it should have been following that reworking. HSBC 
must then resume administering the account on the original basis and with the 
original monthly payment amount.
I also feel that Mrs H has incurred significant distress and inconvenience because of 
whats happened here, and Mrs H has herself highlighted this point in her 
correspondence with this service. HSBC had themselves offered further 
compensation to Mrs H totalling £400, but this was on the basis that HSBC didnt feel 
that the structure of the support that they had offered to Mrs H had been problematic. 
Given that I do feel that Mrs H has incurred further detriment because of HSBCs not 
providing the type of support to Mrs H that they should have provided here, it stands 
to reason that I also feel that further compensation above the amount already offered 
by HSBC is merited.
As such, my provisional decision also includes that HSBC must make an increased 
payment of £600 to Mrs H to compensate her for the trouble and upset this matter 
has caused. This payment may not be applied by HSBC to reduce the balance of the 
account unless Mrs H gives her permission for it to do so.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mrs H and HSBC the opportunity to respond to 
it and to provide any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I 
moved to a final decision.
Both Mrs H and HSBC did respond, with neither party raising any objections to the content of 
my provisional decision letter. As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision on the 
same basis as outlined in my provisional decision letter, and I can confirm that my final 
decision is that I do uphold this complaint on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
HSBC must rework Mrs Hs account so as to remove all adverse reporting on the account 
from April 2020 onwards, including the default, and to apply all payments made by Mrs H from late 2020 onwards to reduce the balance of the account as it should have been 
following that reworking. 
HSBC must then resume administering the account on the original basis and with the 
original monthly payment amount.
Finally, HSBC must make a payment of £600 to Mrs H to compensate her for the trouble and 
upset this matter has caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman