DRN-2272543
The complaint
Mr H complains about the time taken to transfer his ISA to a new platform with Invesco Fund 
Managers Limited (Invesco), from a third-party platform provider, referred to as the 
transferor. 
Mr H says hes lost out financially as a result of this delay. 
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
In September 2019, Mr H applied to transfer his ISA to Invesco. 
On 9 September 2019, Invesco sent the transfer request to the transferor. 
On 24 September 2019, Invesco sent an automated chaser letter, in response to 
which the transferor contacted the business to say it hadnt received the original 
request.
Because the original transfer request document had already been sent, Mr H was 
asked to complete, and provide, a new transfer request form by the Transferor. On 
10 October 2019, the new request from Mr H was received by Invesco. 
Invesco made a new request to the transferor on 18 October 2019. On 1 November 
2019, it sent another automated chaser letter. 
On 5 November 2019, the transferor called Invesco to say it had received the chaser 
letter but not the original request. The transferor asked Invesco for a scanned copy of 
the paperwork to be sent to a different address which Invesco did. 
On 29 November 2019, the transferor confirmed that the request couldnt be 
completed.  
By this stage, 30 days had expired so another request  from Mr H  had to be 
made. This was done and submitted to the transferor on 9 December 2019, and a 
chaser letter was subsequently sent on 17 December 2019. 
The transfer was eventually completed on 6 January 2020. 
Although the investigator could understand Mr Hs frustration, the investigator was 
unable to say that Invesco is responsible for the delays.   
It seems the transferor not receiving the transfer request is the reason for the delays 
but its not something he can blame Invesco for. 
Hes satisfied that Invesco sent the requests, so cant say its responsible for the 
delays.  
Furthermore, because theres a 30-day window within which to complete the transfer, 
a new transfer had to be submitted each time that the process took more than 30 
days. 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators view. Because the investigator couldnt pinpoint who 
was to blame, he asked for an ombudsmans decision 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr H says, Im unable to safely 
say that Invesco is responsible for the delays. It seems Mr H largely accepts this point. 
Despite what Mr H says, Im unable to uphold this complaint just because the investigator 
cant pinpoint which business is to blame for the delays.
In this case Im only considering the actions of Invesco and not the transferor. In other 
words, Im not looking at which party is to blame for the delays, but whether Invesco has 
done anything wrong, and I dont think it has.
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise Mr Hs 
strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided submissions to support this complaint, 
which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr H and Invesco, and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
It seems that that Invesco sent the correct requests by first class post but for unexplained 
reasons they werent received by the transferor, even though the automated chaser letters 
(also sent by first class post) were received. 
Im not sure how this happened, especially on more than one occasion. Its possible that the 
requests went missing in the post, but if this was the case, I cant hold Invesco responsible 
for the actions of a third-party postal service. 
I note that on 26 September 2019, in response to the initial chaser letter the transferor first 
contacted Invesco to say it hadnt received the transfer request. There was nothing Invesco 
couldve reasonably done to ensure the process moved quicker prior to this point. 
I note the transferor provided an alternative/new address which Invesco sent a new 
application to on 18 October 2019, having obtained a new request from Mr H in the 
meantime. In the circumstances Im satisfied that Invesco acted within a reasonable amount 
of time. 
I note on 5 November 2019, the transferor confirmed once again that it received the chaser 
letters but not the application to transfer, but I cant blame Invesco for this. 
I note subsequently Invesco provided a scanned copy of the application form, as requested 
by the Transferor, to the new address. But on 29 November 2019, the Transferor confirmed that it couldnt proceed with the application as it hadnt received the original instruction from 
Mr H. 
Im mindful of the 30-day window within which to complete the request after which a new 
application  originating from Mr H  had to be submitted. But in this instance, this isnt 
something I can hold Invesco responsible for. I note it only sent the scanned copy of the 
request to the Transferor, because it was asked to. 
In any event, a new request to transfer  originating from Mr H  was submitted by Invesco 
within days, on 9 December 2019, by recorded delivery (as a gesture of good will) even 
though Invesco wasnt required to do this. A standard chaser was also sent on 17 December 
2019 in case there were any issues. On this occasion the transferor received the application, 
and the transfer request was eventually completed on 6 January 2020.  
In the circumstances, I think Invesco did everything that it was reasonably required to do. 
So, whether (or not) any other party is to blame, Im unable to attribute any of the delays to 
Invesco. 
I appreciate Mr H will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. I 
realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im unable 
to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman