DRN-3348578
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M have complained that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) unfairly declined a 
claim under a landlord insurance policy.
I will normally only refer to Mr M, as he dealt with the claim.
What happened
Mr M rented out a property to tenants. When he visited the property, he found it was 
occupied by a number of people unknown to him. He contacted the police and also made a 
claim with Ageas for malicious damage. Ageas declined the claim because it said Mr M 
hadnt complied with the terms of the policy. It said he needed to provide gas and electricity 
certificates and that although he had contacted the police, this was to report racial abuse by 
the property occupants, not to report malicious damage.
When Mr M complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
Mr M hadnt complied with the terms and conditions of the policy and there wasnt enough 
evidence to show malicious damage at the property. So, it was reasonable for Ageas to 
decline the claim.
As Mr M didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The policy provided cover for malicious damage and said the policyholder needed to inform 
the police if malicious damage was suspected. Mr M contacted the police. He said this 
included to report malicious damage. However, the police said this was to report a different 
issue. The police visited the property but didnt make a record of any malicious damage. 
Ageas later checked with the police directly and the police confirmed no damage had been 
recorded within the police report as the police officer hadnt observed any such damage 
when he attended. I looked at the police report, which described why the police had been 
contacted and the police response. There was no mention of malicious damage.
Ive also looked at a video of the property. This showed the property was dirty and other 
signs it hadnt been taken care of, including holes in a wall. It can be difficult to say with 
certainty whether damage was the result of malicious intent. But, there were, in my view, 
signs of general neglect and a lack of care at the property which I think was more likely to 
have happened over a period of time. The policy covered one-off insured events. The police 
also visited after the time at which Mr M said the malicious damage had happened. But the 
police said malicious damage hadnt been observed at the property. 
So, based on everything Ive seen, I think it was reasonable for Ageas to decline the claim, 
as I dont think there was evidence to show the condition of the property was the result of 
malicious damage. Im aware that Ageas said Mr M hadnt complied with a condition of the 
policy to supply gas and electricity certificates. However, Ageas looked at the malicious 
damage claim anyway. Given I think it was reasonable for Ageas to decline the claim, the 
certificates dont affect this. As a result, I dont require Ageas to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman