DRN-2918645
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined their cancellation claim 
under their travel insurance policy. My references to Great Lakes include its agents.    
What happened
In January 2020 Mr and Mrs L booked a holiday in September 2020 to a European country 
and took out a single trip travel insurance policy, insured by Great Lakes. The policy covered 
Mrs Ls declared medical conditions which include a rare skin condition caused by a problem 
with her immune system. They also paid an additional premium for Travel Disruption 
extension cover (TDE).
On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 a pandemic. On 
17 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential travel abroad and the UK government advised people over 70 years old or with 
underlying health conditions to prepare to self-isolate for up to three months. Mrs L was 
taking immunosuppressants and oral steroids to treat her skin condition and was categorised 
as a high-risk patient for Covid-19. She and Mr L self-isolated and Mrs Ls doctor supported 
that decision.
On 24 July 2020 Mrs L had a follow-up phone appointment with her hospital doctor about her 
skin condition. She was responding well to treatment but as she was high risk for Covid-19 
the doctor advised Mrs L not to go on the trip in September 2020. Mr and Mrs L cancelled 
their holiday and claimed on the policy for the cancellation costs. 
Great Lakes declined the claim. It said the reason for cancellation wasnt covered by the 
policy as Mr and Mrs L had decided to cancel as a precautionary measure due to her health 
not because she was ill. It also said they had cancelled before the FCO advised against all 
but essential travel to their destination.
Mr and Mrs L complained to us. They said Great Lakes decision was unfair as they 
cancelled only due to Mrs Ls doctor advice. When they booked the holiday and took out the 
policy Mrs L was able to travel.
Our investigator said Great Lakes should fairly pay the claim in line with the remaining policy 
terms plus interest.
Great Lakes disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. It said Mrs Ls skin condition 
seemed stable and well controlled. There was no shielding letter from Mrs Ls doctor just 
evidence that her hospital doctor advised her against going on the trip.
Before I made my decision I noted that Mr and Mrs L had claimed for cancellation costs for 
two other people as well as themselves. As only Mr and Mrs L were insured under the policy 
our investigator contacted them to explain that if I said Great Lakes should pay the claim 
only their portion of the cancellation costs would be covered, which Mr and Mrs L accepted.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority say an insurer must handle claims 
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when 
deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ls 
complaint.
The cancellation section of the policy provides cover for Mr and Mrs Ls non-refundable 
cancellation costs, up to the policy limit, if a trip is cancelled for specified insured events 
which include either of them having an unforeseen illness.
The TDE section of the policy provides cover for Mr and Mrs  Ls non-refundable cancellation 
costs, up to the policy limit, if they were not able to travel due to FCO advice against all 
travel or all but essential travel.
From the medical evidence Ive seen Mrs Ls existing skin condition was well controlled with 
medication when they cancelled the holiday so she didnt have an unforeseen flare up of her  
illness. And at the time they cancelled I dont think the FCO were advising against all but 
essential travel to their destination.
So I think Great Lakes could say Mr and Mrs Ls reason for cancelling the trip didnt fall into 
the insured events the policy covered.  
However, I need to decide if Great Lakes decline of the claim was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Importantly, the policy terms include the following exclusion:
No section of this policy shall apply in respect of:
Claims arising as a result of the following
Arising from you acting against the advice of a doctor.
Great Lakes says it hasnt seen a medical letter advising Mrs L to self-isolate. But Im 
satisfied theres medical evidence that Mrs Ls doctors advised her not to travel in 
September 2020 because she was at high risk from Covid-19 due to her skin condition and 
medication for the condition. The medical evidence includes:
Mrs Ls doctors letter of 26 March 2020 which says I had a telephone consultation 
with (Mrs L) who has been really sensible to self-isolate because she is categorised 
as high risk patient in two immunosuppressants drugs and oral steroids. She needs 
to do this for twelve weeks
Mrs Ls doctors letter of 31 July 2020 details Mrs Ls medication for the skin 
condition and continues In view of the present pandemic, we feel it unwise that she 
travel
Mrs Ls doctors letter of 6 November 2020 says due to Mrs Ls skin condition and 
medication she was not fit to travel in September
On the medical certificate Mrs Ls GP answered Yes to the question asking whether 
it was medically necessary for her to cancel the trip and says Mrs Ls existing skin 
condition made it necessary to cancel the trip. 
I think the above medical evidence is clear that if Mrs L had travelled as planned in September 2020 she would have done so against the advice of her doctors. The policy 
exclusion means if she had travelled she wouldnt have been covered at all by the policy. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to have put Mr and Mrs L in the position 
of having no cover if they cancelled the trip on the doctors advice due to Mrs Ls covered 
medical condition and no policy cover at all if they had gone on the trip against doctors 
advice. 
I note the medical certificate says cancellation of the trip could have been anticipated on 
18 February 2020. That was the date Mrs L saw a consultant and further medication was 
recommended. But theres no evidence that at that time the consultant advised Mrs L not to 
travel. The medical evidence from her hospital doctor is Mrs L was advised on 24 July 2020 
not to travel in September. So I dont think she should have cancelled the trip earlier than 
she did.  
Putting things right
For the reasons above I think its fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to pay the portion of 
Mr and Mrs Ls costs under their cancellation claim, subject to the remaining policy terms 
and limits. It should add interest as Ive detailed below.    
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay the claim for Mr and 
Mrs Ls portion of cancellation costs, subject to the remaining policy terms and policy limit. 
Interest* must be added at 8% simple a year from the date of claim to the date of settlement.
*If Great Lakes Insurance SE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr and Mrs L how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr and Mrs L a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim.     
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman