DRN-3322727
The complaint
Mrs T has complained about the service she received from her mortgage lender Barclays 
Bank UK PLC. Mrs T is unhappy about Barclays handling of an application to port her 
mortgage from one property to another. 
Mrs T says she had to remortgage with another lender and incur costs, such as an early 
repayment charge (ERC), because Barclays provided such poor service. Mrs T would like 
Barclays to refund the costs that she says shes incurred because of this matter and 
compensate her for the stress its caused.
What happened
On 23 March 2021 Mrs T applied to port her Barclays mortgage to another property. Mrs T 
wanted to borrow around £100,000 of additional borrowing as part of the transaction. Mrs T 
asked her financial adviser to act as her mortgage broker in the transaction.  
Mrs T says on 1 April 2021 all the initial paperwork and application was submitted. On 19 
April 2021 Barclays underwriters asked that Mrs T pay off a personal loan as a condition of 
the borrowing. Mrs T did this the following day. The porting application was approved subject 
to a satisfactory valuation.
Mrs T says she experienced problems getting the valuation for mortgage purposes 
completed for the property she was purchasing. At times Barclays said a valuation had 
already been completed when it hadnt. It later tried to arrange for more than one valuation 
to be carried out by different firms of surveyors. 
Mrs T cancelled the porting application on 24 May 2021. This was despite a surveyor being 
booked to complete a valuation for mortgage purposes on 27 May 2021. 
Mrs T complained to Barclays. She felt that what should have been a straightforward porting 
application had turned into two months of hard work without getting her application agreed. 
She had become disillusioned by the mistakes made by Barclays and felt she had to apply 
for a mortgage with another lender or she risked losing the property she wanted to purchase. 
On 3 June 2021 Barclays gave its final response to Mrs Ts complaint. It upheld the 
complaint and agreed it had caused delays. Barclays offered to repay the costs that Mrs Ts 
broker had said should be charged for the hours he spent chasing the porting application. 
The broker had said this would cost £3,237.50. And Barclays offered a further £565 to 
compensate Mrs T for the time taken to resolve the matter and the upset caused by its poor 
customer service handling the porting application.
However, Barclays wouldnt agree to also refund the cost of the Early Repayment Charge 
(ERC) of around £7,400. It said that if Mrs T had allowed the valuation booked on 27 May 
2021 to go ahead, then mortgage offer could have been issued shortly after, and the porting 
application would have completed within a reasonable timeframe. 
Mrs T was dissatisfied with Barclays response and didnt accept its offer. Mrs T brought her 
complaint to our service. Mrs T also wanted Barclays to refund the ERC, exit fee and the 
additional interest she will pay on the new mortgage product that shes taken out with 
another lender. 
Our investigator thought Barclays had done enough to put things right and didnt think any 
further costs should be covered. Mrs T disagreed and asked that an ombudsman reach a 
final decision on her complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has upheld this complaint and accepted that its customer service fell short in the 
handling of Mrs Ts porting application. Barclays has accepted its failings and made an offer 
of compensation. Mrs T doesnt think the offer is adequate. And so, in this dispute, I must 
decide whether I consider Barclays existing offer of compensation is fair and reasonable to 
resolve this matter.
Having carefully considered the complaint brought to us, Im inclined to agree with our 
investigator. I think Barclays existing offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Ill 
explain why. 
Mrs T has asked that Barclays provide an explanation of what it was doing on each day of 
the mortgage application process and would like us to consider in some detail where time 
was lost in the porting application process. Im not persuaded that this is necessary in our 
investigation into this complaint. I think its clear from the evidence already presented by 
both sides, that Barclays service was found lacking and that unnecessary delays were 
caused by it. 
Ive looked at the exchanges between Mrs Ts broker and Barclays. Its clear that the broker 
had issues getting help from Barclays to process the application. And that there were 
subsequent delays and administrative mistakes arranging and communicating what was 
happening with the valuation for lending purposes. Its unsatisfactory that Mrs T and her 
broker were told a valuation had been completed when it hadnt. And then Barclays appears 
to have scheduled multiple valuations with different firms. While I have asked Barclays for 
more information about why there were problems with the valuation, as at that date of this 
decision it hasnt provided us with information about this.   
I can see that there was a valuation booked for 27 May 2021 which was subsequently 
cancelled. This was because Mrs T had decided not to proceed with Barclays by 24 May 
2021. Instead Mrs T withdrew her porting application. Shed decided to take out a new 
mortgage with another lender. This decision ultimately led to her incurring the ERC for 
breaking the interest rate product early and an exit fee when the loan was repaid.
I can see why Mrs T, and the broker on her behalf, felt disappointed and frustrated at the 
level of service given by Barclays. However, with the valuation booked in for 27 May 2021, I 
consider Barclays could still have completed the transaction within a reasonable timescale.
Ive also thought carefully about Mrs Ts decision to move to another high street lender. Mrs 
T has provided more information about the timescales of this other application. Mrs Ts said 
she applied to another lender on 30 April 2021. The new lender offered the mortgage on 21 
May 2021 and the loan completed on 8 June 2021. From Mrs Ts testimony it seems she 
had already started the process of getting a mortgage from another lender in late April. This 
was in the same month as shed started the process to port her Barclays mortgage and so she hadnt yet experienced the delays and frustration with the valuation at that point. 
I dont think it was clear at this time that Barclays wouldnt be able to port the mortgage. And 
I consider that Mrs T would have started an application with another lender knowing that this 
would mean shed need to pay an ERC to repay her mortgage to repay her mortgage with 
Barclays before the end of her interest rate product. 
Overall, I think Barclays handling of the porting application could have been far more 
efficient. I consider it poor that more than a month after Mrs T had cleared the personal loan 
required as a condition of the porting application, she still hadnt received a mortgage offer. 
But in the overall scheme of things, and with my wider knowledge of how long porting 
transactions can take to process, I dont consider the timescales here were so long that Mrs 
T should have all the break costs involved in repaying her mortgage early covered by 
Barclays.
What should Barclays pay now to settle this complaint? 
Barclays has offered to refund around £3,200 to Mrs T. This amount is based upon a figure 
quoted by Mrs Ts broker asking for £3,237.50 to compensate him for around 18 hours of 
work. 
Ive asked Mrs T for further information about the nature of the fee agreement she had with 
her broker. Mrs T has said that there wasnt an initial fee agreement as she was an existing 
client. In fact, her broker doesnt charge a fee for existing clients as they are paid a fee by 
the lender for the work done. 
So, the figure quoted as the costs of the broker have come about when Mrs T asked her 
broker to set out the costs involved in this transaction being delayed. I understand Mrs Ts 
explanation of how this figure came about and that her adviser couldnt do other more 
lucrative work as he spent a lot of time chasing Barclays. 
In this instance, based on the evidence provided, I consider it reasonable that Barclays has 
offered to pay Mrs T the amount requested in the brokers invoice. I agree with Barclays that 
its ultimately for Mrs T to decide whether she wishes to share the compensation given to her 
to her adviser for his involvement. Barclays has also offered £565 for the trouble and upset caused to Mrs T through the 
process. I understand that the process of selling one property and buying another within a 
set timescale is a stressful matter. And I consider that Barclays made this situation more 
stressful for Mrs T due delays in its handling of her application and misinformation it gave 
along the way. Mrs Ts porting application took several weeks longer than it should have to 
proceed to offer. Bearing in mind the period of delay, and the upset caused by Barclays at 
an already stressful time, I consider that the compensation of £565 offered is fair and 
reasonable to settle the matter. 
Mrs T has said that her parents had to stay in alternative accommodation because she 
hadnt been able to move to her new property as quickly as shed hoped. Im sorry to hear 
about that and for the inconvenience this caused to her relatives. However, I dont think it 
would be reasonable to ask Barclays to cover costs or upset caused to third parties outside 
of this dispute between Mrs T and Barclays. I appreciate that what was happening to her 
relatives was a real concern to Mrs T, but I consider the cost and inconvenience caused to 
wider family members isnt something that Barclays can reasonably be held accountable for 
in this dispute. In any event, Im satisfied the impact on Mrs T of the worry caused to them is 
fairly reflected in the offer Barclays has already made. 
conclusion
I know Mrs T will be disappointed by my decision. Mrs T has said shed like the ERC 
refunded in full, the costs of her brokers time covered by Barclays and the mortgage exit fee 
reimbursed to her. However, I wont be asking Barclays to refund the ERC and exit fee on 
this occasion. 
Ultimately, while I can understand Mrs Ts decision to ask her broker to pursue a new 
mortgage with another lender, there were costs involved in this. Barclays has offered 
compensation which amounts to around half of the ERC to be paid to Mrs T. I agree that this 
complaint should be upheld - but I consider that the award already offered by Barclays Bank 
UK Plc is fair to settle the matter.  
I leave it to Mrs T to decide how she wishes to use the compensation that Barclays has 
offered. I make no further award.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK Plc. 
Barclays Bank UK Plc has already made an offer to pay £3,237.50 plus a further £565 for 
the trouble and upset caused to Mrs T to settle this complaint. I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances. So, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay Mrs T £3,237.50 
plus £565 to settle this complaint if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman