DRN-2836990
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are complaining about the administration of their car insurance by Aviva 
Insurance Limited. The policy holder is Mrs H with Mr H as named driver. Mr H has been the 
main correspondent.  
What happened
In December 2019, Mr H was driving his car, a Suzuki, when he was stopped by police. 
They told him he was driving without insurance and impounded his car. Aviva later admitted 
theyd entered the wrong registration number on the system so it was their fault the car had 
been impounded. This was the second time in a few months that Mr H had been stopped by 
the police and had a car impounded because of Avivas errors. Aviva paid Mr and Mrs H 
£400 to cover the costs of recovering the car from the impound and then a further £150 to 
cover transport costs, and in January 2020 they offered a further £300 in compensation for 
the inconvenience and upset theyd caused. 
Mr H went to pick the car up from the impound but was told the car was undriveable and a 
total loss. It seemed to have been damaged in the process of towing the car to the impound. 
Mr and Mrs H made a claim, and Avivas claims team began to handle this. Aviva asked Mr 
and Mrs H to provide copies of their driving licences and also the ownership document for 
the car (the V5). They said they needed to see these documents before theyd progress the 
claim. 
During the course of January and February 2020, Aviva and Mr H had several conversations 
about the documents that Aviva had asked for. Mr H was unwilling to provide them and 
Aviva insisted they needed to see the documents before progressing the claim. During April, 
Mrs H provided the V5 and her driving licence, but Aviva didnt receive Mr Hs driving licence 
until the end of June.
When Aviva received the final document they spoke with Mr H to confirm they could value 
the Suzuki but at this point Mr H told Aviva hed reported the car stolen. Aviva told Mr H 
theyd need him to remove the stolen marker before they could make any payments for the 
vehicle valuation. They told him theyd assessed the pre-accident value at £2,160. And they 
said theyd deduct £150 excess from this and pay him £2,010 when hed removed the stolen 
marker.
Mr H has raised a number of complaints to Aviva about this incident. Our service initially 
treated these as two separate complaints but this decision will deal with all the complaint 
points in relation to the Suzuki.
In summary, Mr and Mrs Hs complaint points are:
The valuation of the Suzuki is too low and should be around £4,000.
Its taken Aviva too long to progress this claim.
This has meant theyve had no access to a vehicle since early February 2020 when 
the courtesy car period expired.
Some of Mr Hs personal belongings are still in the car and hes had no access to 
them.
The whole incident has had a significant impact on Mr Hs mental health, and on his 
family. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaints. She said the valuation of the Suzuki was fair. 
She felt Aviva had progressed the claim as quickly as they could have done given the time it 
took Mr and Mrs H to provide the documents Aviva asked for. She said she hadnt seen 
enough to say that Aviva should compensate Mr and Mrs H for anything that happened after 
January 2020. But she thought Aviva should increase their offer of compensation from £300 
to £500 because of the significant impact the impounding had on Mr Hs mental health and 
consequently on Mrs H. 
Aviva accepted our investigators view  but Mr and Mrs H didnt. They asked for an 
ombudsmans decision  so its come to me.
When I reviewed the case, I thought we might be able to resolve it more effectively without a 
decision. So I asked Aviva if theyd consider:
treating the incident as a direct loss rather than as a claim on Mr Hs insurance; 
paying Mr and Mrs H the value of the car (including the excess) without requiring the 
stolen marker to be removed or alternatively re-valuing the car as a stolen vehicle 
and offering to pay that valuation; and
increasing their offer in respect of trouble and upset. 
I also asked them to provide some instructions as to how Mr H could collect his personal 
belongings from the car.
Aviva agreed to treat the incident as a direct loss rather than a claim, and they agreed to pay 
the value of the car without any further debate over the stolen marker. They offered to pay 
£800 total compensation for the overall impact on Mr and Mrs H. And they gave the phone 
number for the company holding the car so that Mr H could arrange to collect his personal 
belongings. Mr H asked if Aviva would cover the cost of travelling to pick up his belongings 
but Aviva declined this request. Instead they offered that if he sent a list of belongings they 
would arrange for the belongings to be sent to Mr H.
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept Avivas offer. Mr H was still unhappy with the valuation of the 
Suzuki and how long the whole incident had gone on for. He felt the compensation should be 
significantly higher to recognise the impact on him and his family of being without a vehicle 
for over a year. So I considered everything again and issued a provisional decision on 4 May 
2021. In my provisional decision I said I thought Avivas latest offer would be a fair 
resolution. In that decision I said:
Overall treatment as direct loss rather than a claim
I can see from some of the correspondence between Mr H and Aviva that one of the 
things that upset Mr H was that Aviva were treating it as a claim against his and Mrs Hs 
insurance policy. I can understand why  if it hadnt been for Avivas mistake the 
damage to the car would never have happened. Aviva have now agreed to treat it as a 
direct loss and will need to make the relevant changes to their own records and the 
central databases to ensure they accurately reflect the incident.
Valuation
Aviva used one of the trade motor guides to assess the pre-accident value of the 
Suzuki. This is the approach wed normally suggest  though we might expect to see 
more than one guide consulted. The valuations from the three guides we use ranged 
from £1,790 to £2,090, so Avivas valuation is higher than any of the three guide values. 
I appreciate Mr H says the Suzuki is worth more, and provided some examples of 
adverts for similar vehicles to Aviva. But, looking at these, the cars being advertised at a higher price had much lower mileage and were slightly newer than Mr Hs car. In 
addition, advertised prices tend to be higher than actual sale price  which is why we 
normally consider the guide prices to be more persuasive. So Im not persuaded that the 
valuation should be higher and Im minded to say Avivas valuation is fair and 
reasonable. 
Delays
The Suzuki was impounded in December 2019 and it has taken until April 2021 for 
Aviva to pay the settlement for the vehicle. 
However, between January 2020 and June 2020, Aviva was waiting for Mr and Mrs H to 
provide the documents theyd asked for to validate the claim. And from June 2020 to 
April 2021, Aviva were unwilling to pay the settlement because Mr H had reported the 
car stolen. 
Aviva explained to Mr H on several occasions that their terms and conditions allowed 
them to ask for copies of documents in order to validate claims. Mr H didnt want to 
provide the documents and so I can understand why Aviva didnt progress the claim. 
Mr H reported the car stolen because he was frustrated with how long Aviva had held 
the vehicle and not paid the settlement for it. So it seems the delays were largely 
caused by Mr and Mrs Hs unwillingness to cooperate with Avivas request for 
documents. 
But I think Aviva are partly to blame for the delays. If this incident had been treated as a 
direct loss rather than a claim from the beginning, its likely much of Mr Hs frustration 
might have been avoided. He may have been more willing to provide documents  or 
Aviva may have decided they didnt need them given the incident had arisen due to their 
error. 
So Im inclined to say that Aviva need to take some responsibility for the delays  but 
that Mr and Mrs H should have cooperated with Aviva and this would have enabled the 
matter to be settled much more quickly. I havent considered compensation for this 
separately, but have covered it below when looking at the impact of the whole incident 
on Mr and Mrs H.
Access to a vehicle
I can see Mr H repeatedly asked Aviva for additional access to a courtesy car beyond 
early February. However, the policy terms state that when a car cant be repaired, a 
courtesy car will only be provided for 14 days  or until the settlements paid, if thats 
earlier. 
The Suzuki was confirmed as a total loss on 17 January 2020. Aviva extended the 
courtesy car hire at that point to 31 January. So they provided a courtesy car in line with 
the terms of the policy. I think this is fair  if Mr and Mrs H had provided the documents 
theyd been asked for within a few days its likely the settlement would have been paid 
around the time the courtesy car hire expired. 
Mr H didnt return the courtesy car when asked to. The hire company picked the car up 
a week or so after the hire period ended, and reported a significant amount of damage 
to Aviva. I can see when Mr H later asked for a courtesy car, Aviva took this into 
consideration when they declined. Im inclined to say this was fair  they werent obliged 
to give Mr H a courtesy car under the policy terms and previous behaviour suggested 
that any car provided might be damaged.
I know Mr and Mrs H are upset that they havent had access to a car for over a year. 
Aside from Mr and Mrs Hs part in the delays (as outlined above), Im aware Aviva paid 
total loss settlements to them in respect of two other cars around the end of 2019. So 
Im not minded to hold Aviva responsible for the fact that Mr and Mrs H havent had access to a vehicle  it seems to me they could have replaced one of the vehicles they 
lost in late 2019.
Personal belongings
Part of Mr Hs complaint is that he hasnt had access to the personal belongings that 
were left in his car. I can see he discussed this with Aviva on several occasions and 
they suggested he send in a list and they would arrange for the belongings to be 
returned to Mr H. However, I cant see Mr H did this. Aviva have now provided details so 
that Mr H can make arrangements to collect the belongings himself. If hed prefer, hes 
still welcome to send a list of belongings to Aviva  theyre still willing to have them sent 
to his home address at no cost to Mr H. Im minded to say this is fair  Mr H has two 
options for getting his belongings back.
Overall impact of the incident on Mr H and his family
Mr H has told us of the impact this has had, and I can see he mentioned this to Aviva 
during the course of numerous conversations as well. Ill summarise what hes said:
Being stopped by the police for the second time in a few months was extremely 
stressful, as well as embarrassing. He had to wait in the cold for several hours and 
then needed to go to hospital to be treated for stress afterwards.
This led to an increase in seizures and panic attacks over the following months.
Having no access to a vehicle has meant Mr and Mrs H have effectively been 
prisoners in their own home. Theyve felt very isolated. 
Mr H has been unable to see his children because of not having a car  or on 
occasion has spent significant amounts on taxis to travel to see them. So this has 
had an impact on the wellbeing of Mr Hs children as well.
Its clear to me that the initial impounding of the car as well as the subsequent lengthy 
conversations and arguments between Mr H and Aviva have exacerbated Mr Hs mental 
health conditions. And I can understand how this would have been compounded by 
feeling isolated by having no car.
However, I have to consider to what extent I can hold Aviva responsible for what Mr and 
Mrs H have been through. And, as Ive explained above, I think they could have 
significantly reduced their suffering by providing documents when Aviva first asked for 
them, and perhaps also by using the settlements from previous vehicle write-offs to buy 
another car. 
Taking all this into account, Im minded to say Avivas offer of £800 is fair and 
reasonable. 
Aviva accepted my provisional decision, but Mr H didnt. In summary, Mr H said the impact 
of Avivas errors and poor customer service had been devastating to his health and to his 
family and he felt that £800 was nowhere near enough to recognise this. He also said hed 
sent the required documents in to Aviva so felt that aspect of the provisional decision was 
factually inaccurate.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Hs comments on my provisional decision. I appreciate Mr H is extremely 
upset by Avivas actions. However, Mr Hs comments arent new, theyre a repeat of 
previous comments, and they havent changed my mind. So, my final decision is unchanged 
from my provisional decision.   My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Aviva Insurance Limited 
need to:
Pay £2,160 in settlement for the Suzuki (if they havent already); 
Treat the incident as a direct loss rather than a claim, making the relevant changes to 
their own records and to central databases (including the Claims and Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE); and
Pay £800 to Mr and Mrs H for the substantial upset their mistake has caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman