DRN-3646121
The complaint
Mr R complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited trading as 
Hargreaves Lansdown (HL) caused unnecessary delays in processing the transfer of his 
Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) to another provider.
What happened
Mr R had a SIPP with HL which he wished to transfer to another provider, who Ill refer to as 
[X]. A letter requesting the start of the transfer process was sent by [X] on 30 August 2021 
and received by HL on 3 September 2021.
But HL didnt recognise this letter as a transfer request so didnt treat it as such. [X] emailed 
HL on two further occasions (30 September 2021 and 11 October 2021) asking for an 
update on the transfer request, but HL thought it related to an old transfer, so told [X] on both 
occasions there were no active transfer requests in progress.
On 27 October 2021 Mr R called HL to try to ascertain what was going on. HL told him there 
was no active transfer in progress as the previous one had completed in 2020.
On 28 October 2021 HL received a transfer request from [X] via an electronic transfer 
gateway system. This request was processed, and the transfer was completed on 
2 November 2021.
Mr R complained to HL about the length of time the transfer had taken and that hed paid 
additional management fees during this delay. He also said hed been inconvenienced by 
having to chase this transfer request.
But HL initially denied any liability for the delay. In its response to his complaint, HL said that 
it hadnt had any contact from [X] until 20 September 2021, when [X] was chasing a transfer 
request. HL said it responded to this, and the subsequent chaser, by informing [X] that there 
were no active transfer requests. And it was only when [X] sent the request by the electronic 
transfer gateway system that it was able to process it. And when this happened it completed 
the transfer within four working days.
But Mr R pointed out to HL that [X] had written to it on 30 August 2021 with a transfer 
request. When this was looked into by HL it admitted that the written request shouldve been 
passed to the transfer team, but because it hadnt been received by the normal electronic 
means, this hadnt happened. In recognition of this HL offered Mr R £200 as compensation 
for the extra fees hed paid, and for the inconvenience hed experienced. This offer was 
subsequently increased to a total of £325.
But Mr R didnt accept this so complained to our service. He felt the level of compensation 
offered didnt adequately reflect the distress and inconvenience hed been caused. However, 
having looked at the circumstances, our Investigator thought HLs offer of £325 
compensation for the fees incurred and the inconvenience hed suffered was fair.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HL is not disputing that it shouldve actioned the transfer request from the point it received 
the letter from [X} on 3 September 2021. It agrees it made an error in not doing so and has 
offered compensation of £325 to Mr R to cover the additional fees he incurred from the delay 
in the transfer, and the inconvenience he was caused. But Mr R thinks the amount offered 
doesnt adequately reflect this. 
So I need to decide whether I think this offer is enough. And having considered everything I 
agree with the investigator, for broadly the same reasons. I dont think HL need to do 
anything more here. Ill explain.
The role of our service is to identify if an error, or errors have occurred. And where one or 
more has been identified, we aim to put the consumer back in the position they wouldve 
been if the error hadnt occurred. 
Now in this complaint, HL has agreed it made an error, and the transfer of Mr Rs SIPP from 
itself to [X] was delayed. And it has agreed to pay Mr R compensation for this. It has shown 
that Mr R paid charges totalling £136.14 for the months of September 2021 and October 
2021, and it has agreed to refund these charges and included this amount in a total 
compensation offer of £325. 
I can see that once HL received the electronic transfer request, it completed it within four 
working days. But electronic requests are usually significantly quicker than paper requests, 
such as the one initially sent by [X]. So I dont think it would be fair to say HL shouldve 
completed the initial transfer, had it actioned it properly, within the same timescales. And it is 
impossible to know how long it wouldve taken, but I dont think it would be unfair to say an 
in-specie paper transfer such as Mr Rs shouldve been competed within 10 working days. 
So Im satisfied Mr Rs transfer shouldve been completed by around 17 September 2021. 
But considering the charges Mr R incurred, I note that whilst I dont know exactly how much 
[X] charge, I think it is likely that there wouldve been some charge imposed by it once the 
transfer was completed. So Mr R wouldve been liable for some charge anyway, whether it 
was from HL or [X] once the transfer had completed. So HLs offer to include the charges for 
September and October is, in my opinion, more than fair in the circumstances.
But I do accept that Mr R did suffer some inconvenience when trying to chase what was 
happening with the transfer. And I also accept that any process which involves a significant 
proportion of ones retirement provision is stressful, especially when it doesnt go smoothly. 
But I cant see that Mr R contacted HL more than once during this process. He has told our 
service that he made numerous calls and emails to [X] to try and find out what was going on, 
but I cant fairly hold HL responsible for any distress caused by this. I can only hold it 
responsible for the delays it caused, not for the information Mr R was given, or not given, by 
[X]. But ultimately, HL was responsible for the delay, and the subsequent inconvenience Mr 
R was caused, so some compensation is due.
Whilst being cognisant of Mr Rs thoughts on the matter, Im satisfied that the offer of £325 
which HL has made to Mr R is fair and reasonable in this case. This offer adequately 
compensates him for the charges he incurred in September 2021 and October 2021, and the 
inconvenience he suffered as a result of the delays HL caused in the transferring his SIPP to 
[X]. My final decision
I require Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited trading as Hargreaves 
Lansdown, if it hasnt already done so, to pay Mr R a total of £325 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman