DRN-1693805
complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Lloyds Bank PLC blocked two cheques in error. 
background
Mr and Mrs K gave their daughter two high value cheques. When she attempted to pay in 
the cheques to her bank account, they were declined. Mr and Mrs K complained to Lloyds 
about this.  
Lloyds established that its system said Mr and Mrs K didnt have the necessary rights to sign 
cheques on the account. There was no reason for this. Previous cheques had been 
honoured without any problem, and the issue only came to light because of the value of the 
cheques. 
Lloyds accepted that it was at fault. It resolved the problem and offered £100 compensation. 
It later increased this by a further £350 after Mr and Mrs K explained the impact the error 
had had on them. Mr and Mrs K remained unhappy and brought a complaint to this service. 
They said the declined cheques had caused them and their daughter a great deal of worry 
and upset. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He accepted Mr and Mrs K 
were caused a lot of worry by the situation. However, he thought the compensation offered 
by Lloyds was fair. He explained we couldnt compensate Mr and Mrs Ks daughter, as she 
wasnt one of the account holders. 
Mr and Mrs K didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter has been passed to me 
to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Lloyds has accepted that it was fault for the error. The remaining issue for me to decide is 
whether the compensation of £450 it has offered is reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs K have gone to great lengths to explain the impact Lloyds error has had on 
them. Ive taken all of their submissions into consideration - however Ive only included a 
short summary within this decision. This reflects the fact that our service, wherever possible, 
aims to be informal. 
Mr and Mrs K explain the money was intended as a Christmas gift to their daughter, and 
they gave her the cheques before they went on holiday. Regrettably, their daughter then had 
to interrupt their holiday to tell them she hadnt been able to cash the cheques. Mr and Mrs K 
were understandably very worried about this. 
Mr and Mrs K contacted Lloyds about the matter as soon as they became aware of it on 24 
December. Lloyds looked into it and found out what happened, however unfortunately Mr and Mrs K werent contactable by phone for a few weeks so it couldnt explain this to them. 
Lloyds therefore wrote to Mr and Mrs Ks home address about the matter on 4 January. 
I can understand Mr and Mrs Ks frustration with this. Theyd told Lloyds they werent going 
to be back in the UK for some time, and so couldnt see the letter Lloyds had sent them. 
Lloyds told Mr and Mrs K it wasnt prepared to email them a copy of the letter it had sent or 
give a detailed explanation of the matter over email. It explained this was because of an 
internal security measure. Although Mr and Mrs K are particularly unhappy about this, that 
decision was up to Lloyds. However, Id have still expected Lloyds to make Mr and Mrs K 
aware the issue had been identified and put right.  
I see Lloyds did email Mr and Mrs K on 11 January to explain that the issue had been 
resolved. Lloyds also read out the contents of the 4 January letter to them over the phone. I 
think Lloyds took reasonable steps here to make Mr and Mrs K aware it had put the matter 
right. 
Mr and Mrs K arent satisfied with Lloyds explanation of what happened, and want further 
investigation into this. I dont think thats necessary. Although Lloyds doesnt know why the 
error occurred, its explained to Mr and Mrs K what action it has taken to put things right and 
ensure it doesnt happen again. I think this is sufficient. 
Overall, its apparent that Mr and Mrs K were caused unnecessary worry and upset by the 
error and Ive no doubt this did have some impact on their enjoyment of their holiday. 
However, they were aware the funds remained in their bank account, and were also aware in 
early January that the issue had been identified and resolved. Much of their frustration stems 
from the fact that Lloyds wouldnt communicate fully with them by email, however as Ive 
explained, that decision was up to Lloyds. Despite this, Lloyds was still able to reassure Mr 
and Mrs K that the matter had been resolved. 
After considering everything, I think the compensation payment of £450 is reasonable in the 
circumstances. I therefore wont be requiring Lloyds to increase this. 
Mr and Mrs K have also explained how Lloyds error has impacted their daughter. However, 
as the investigator has explained, we cant take this into consideration as part of this 
complaint, as their daughter isnt an account holder. I understand Lloyds has opened a 
separate complaint for their daughter. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, as Im satisfied Lloyds offer was 
reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman