DRN-3378292
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the problems she experienced when trying to register for online 
banking with Metro Bank PLC (Metro Bank).
What happened
Mrs P held a savings account with Metro Bank which was due to mature in July 2021. At the 
point of maturity, Mrs P wanted to transfer her funds to an account she held at another bank. 
She wanted to do this online but had difficulty registering for online banking with Metro Bank. 
She called Metro Bank to set up the online facility and the advisor stayed on the phone with 
her while she completed the registration process. Metro Bank says that the final step is for a 
passcode to be sent to the customer which enables them to complete the login process. 
But Mrs P experienced difficulties with this stage of the process. She says that, over the 
course of around half an hour, three different passcodes were sent to her, but each 
passcode was sent more than once. She was extremely concerned by this as they were 
supposed to be one-time passcodes. 
Mrs P lodged a complaint with Metro Bank. It raised an incident ticket so that the issue could 
be investigated. Mrs P said she would call back the following day to arrange over the phone 
for the funds to be transferred. She did so and the money was sent out to her nominated 
account that same morning.
But Mrs P wasnt happy about the situation. She says she was worried about a security 
breach when she noticed the same passcodes had been sent to her more than once and 
thought it could be a scam. She says the money in the Metro Bank account was her life 
savings and she was very distressed when she couldnt access the account. Even after 
shed managed to complete the transfer, she says she continued to worry until the funds 
arrived in her other bank account, which took a few hours.
When Metro Bank responded to her complaint it said that customers should always get a 
different passcode, but network issues could have had an impact, causing her to receive the 
same passcode more than once.  It apologised that Mrs P had been disappointed, but said it 
wasnt able to uphold the complaint.
Mrs P wasnt happy with Metro Banks response and brought the complaint to this service.  
Our Investigator didnt think Metro Bank had acted unfairly and didnt ask it to do anything. 
But Mrs P didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Metro Bank says the issue of the passcodes was investigated by its Digital Team. It says it 
didnt identify any issues on Metro Banks side which explain why the same passcodes were 
sent to Mrs P more than once. It says this could have been caused by an issue with Mrs Ps 
network provider. I think thats a reasonable suggestion. I havent seen anything which 
disproves this theory or indicates another explanation for the problems Mrs P encountered. I 
realise Mrs P feels strongly that the issue was caused by Metro Bank. She says it didnt act 
with due skill, care and diligence. But I havent seen any evidence of that. So I cant safely 
conclude that what happened here was Metro Banks fault.
Metro Bank says the only thing it could have done was to reset Mrs Ps online banking 
credentials. But it says that, as Mrs P had already transferred her funds by the time it 
completed its investigation, this didnt seem necessary. I think thats a reasonable stance.
I can appreciate that the situation was concerning for Mrs P. But, despite the initial problems, 
she was able to complete the registration process and then make the transfer to her chosen 
account on the day of maturity. So she hasnt experienced any financial loss as a result.
Shes explained the worry and distress she experienced, and I can understand her point of 
view. But, as I explained above, I cant conclude from the information available to me that 
this was Metro Banks fault. So, although Im sorry to disappoint Mrs P, Im not going to ask 
Metro Bank to do anything here.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman