DRN-4051510
Complaint
Mr S says that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly gave him an overdraft 
which he was constantly in for years.
Background
Mr S applied for a current account with Halifax in December 2019. At this stage he didnt 
have an overdraft. In June 2020, Mr S successfully applied for an overdraft limit increase to 
£1,000.00. In August 2020, Mr S overdraft limit was increased to £1,050.00 before being 
increased to £1,070.00 in September 2020 and finally £1,150.00 in October 2020. 
Mr S complained about his overdraft in September 2022. Halifax didnt think it had done 
anything wrong when initially provided the overdraft and subsequent limit increases. 
However, it accepted that it shouldnt have renewed Mr S overdraft in May 2021 and 
refunded all the interest Mr S paid after this in order to put things right. Mr S remained 
dissatisfied and referred his complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr S concerns. She thought that Halifax hadnt done 
anything wrong when providing Mr S overdraft or increasing his limit. She also agreed that 
Halifax ought to have realised that Mr S overdraft had become unsustainable for him in        
May 2021 but thought that what it had done to put things right was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.  
Mr S disagreed. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided to partially uphold Mr S 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Ive started by considering Halifaxs initial decision to provide Mr S with an overdraft.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr S complaint.
Halifax needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Halifax needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr S 
could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Halifax provided Mr S with an overdraft that at its highest had a limit of £1,150.00. It says it 
agreed to Mr S application after it asked him about his income and expenditure and carried 
out a credit search in the background. Its unclear whether Halifax asked Mr S anything else 
about his financial circumstances at the time. But it says there was nothing in the information 
it gathered which warranted further checks or suggested that what was being advanced was 
unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about whats been provided. At this stage, I think it would be helpful for 
me to explain that Mr S was provided with a facility which needed to be repaid within a 
reasonable period of time, as long as it was utilised appropriately, rather than all in one go. I 
think its also worth me explaining that its my understanding that Mr S was approved for a 
limit of £1,150.00 and thats why he was able to reach this amount without having to provide 
too much more in the way of information.
And given the information Halifax has provided, shows that Mr S little in the way of existing 
credit commitments, no obvious difficulties repaying as well as a healthy (albeit declared) 
disposable income, Im satisfied that what Halifax learned about Mr S, was enough for it to 
reasonably conclude that he could afford to repay £1,150.00 within a reasonable period of 
time. 
As this is the case, Im satisfied that Halifax didnt act unfairly or unreasonably when initially 
deciding to provide Mr S with an overdraft, or increasing his limit in incremental amounts to 
£1,150.00 by October 2020.
That said, while Halifax might not have acted unfairly when it initially decided to provide            
Mr S with an overdraft and increase the limit, Halifax did commit to reviewing Mr S facility in 
May 2021. Halifax has accepted that it ought to have realised that Mr S overdraft had 
become unsustainable for him by May 2021 and it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards 
Mr S by allowing him to continue using it from this point forwards.   
Where a business accepts (or we decide) it did something wrong, wed expect the business 
to put the consumer in the position they would be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in 
an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a consumer in the position theyd now be in if they 
hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt have. However, thats not possible in cases 
where funds that shouldnt have been advanced were advanced because typically those 
funds will have already been spent. 
So we have to look at a way of asking a business to put things right in a fair and reasonable 
way. And where a business provided, or continued to allow a consumer to use, a credit 
facility which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the 
consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges 
on that credit.
This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those 
interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. Thats what Halifax has 
agreed to do here, so it has agreed to do what Id normally expect a firm to do in these 
circumstances. As this is the case, Im satisfied that what it has proposed to do is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr S complaint.Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Halifax acted unfair or 
unreasonably when providing Mr S with his overdraft or increasing his limit. And while 
Halifax ought to have realised Mr S overdraft had become unsustainable, what it has done 
to put things right is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. As this is 
the case, Im satisfied that Halifax hasnt treated Mr S unfairly and Im not upholding his 
complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman