DRN-4478817
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs B have complained that Skipton Building Society (SBS) discriminated against 
Mr S on the grounds of age by refusing him term extension on a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage 
that ran beyond his 86th birthday.
To settle the complaint, Mr S and Mrs B want SBS to offer redress based on the most 
favourable two-year BLT product available in October 2021.
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are published, so its 
important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr S and Mrs B being identified. 
So for these reasons, I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. If I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it; rather, itll be because I didnt 
think it was material to the outcome of the complaint.
In October 2021 Mr S and Mrs B wanted to arrange a new interest rate product on one of 
their BTL mortgages (between them they have four BTL properties, either wholly, jointly or 
partly owned). The mortgage had less than two years left to run on it, and because a term 
extension would take the end date past Mr Ss 86th birthday, SBS declined to lend, saying its 
upper age limit was 85 years.
SBS was able to offer Mr S and Mrs B a tracker rate for the remainder of the mortgage term, 
for which they paid a fee of £995. However, Mr S and Mrs B say that if SBS had not 
discriminated against Mr S on the basis of age, they could have had a better interest rate 
product.
SBS didnt uphold the complaint, so it was brought to our service. An investigator looked at 
what had happened. She was satisfied that, although SBS had carried out a risk 
assessment, it wasnt based on relevant information from a source that was reasonable to 
rely on. She was therefore satisfied that the decision not to extend the term and thus offer a 
better interest rate product was unfair.
The investigator asked SBS to pay Mr S and Mrs B £500 compensation, and that SBS 
should reconsider its decision not to offer a longer-term extension.
SBS agreed to pay the compensation, but the situation concerning the term extension 
remained unresolved. As a result, on 15 November 2023 I issued a provisional decision in 
which I reached the following conclusions.
SBS has accepted that Mr S and Mrs B meet the income criteria and their mortgage 
is not in arrears. SBS also says, however:  
these are not the only factors we consider. This is their only buy to let 
property and should the property be vacant for any period they will need to 
meet the mortgage payments from their income. In the case of many older 
borrowers this could place an undue burden on their income at a time they 
are particularly vulnerable, due to ill health or other changes in their 
circumstances. It is more difficult for such borrowers to replace lost income in 
later life and we must take into account all aspects of their situation.
A borrower with a portfolio of BTL properties is likely to be better placed to 
manage a period of vacancy without the additional burden on their income. 
That is not the situation here.
Within the complaint [Mr S] also wanted a term extension and product from 
October 2021. If you believe, taking into account their circumstances, the 
term extension is still required we could offer this though cannot offer a 
product from the date requested. Should they wish to select a new product, at 
the end of the 2 years offered under their current product, this would have to 
be from our current range of BTL products, which are presently at a higher 
rate than currently applicable to the mortgage. 
I am satisfied that the reasons given by SBS for declining the term extension dont 
take into account the fact that Mr S and Mrs B are not, as SBS says, single BTL 
owners (which they say increases the risk of rental voids and arrears). Mr S and Mrs 
B have four BTLs between them, three of which are free of mortgage. 
Given this, Im not persuaded that SBSs decision to decline to extend the term to 
enable Mr S and Mrs B to have a two-year interest rate product is fair or reasonable. 
It was based on a flawed assessment of Mr S and Mrs Bs circumstances. I think if 
SBS had taken all factors into consideration it would have extended the term.
 
To put things right I thought SBS should do the following:
Mr S and Mrs B took out a tracker rate product in October 2021 which ran to the end 
of the mortgage term (which has now expired). Because they were on a tracker rate, 
they have made higher repayments than they would have made if theyd been on a 
fixed rate, so have effectively been overcharged.
I think that SBS should look at the  rates that would have been available to Mr S and 
Mrs B in October 2021 if SBS had not declined the request for a term extension. SBS 
should then do the following:
calculate the difference between the repayments made at the best two-year rate 
available and the actual payments made on the mortgage from October 2021 to 
date (A);
either (whichever Mr S and Mrs B prefers):
oreimburse A to Mr S and Mrs B; or
oreduce the capital balance of the mortgage by A;
pay interest on the overpayments used to calculate A at 8% per annum simple 
from the date each monthly payment was made to the date of reimbursement (B);
pay compensation of £500 for distress and inconvenience (C).SBS has also said it will consider a final term extension, based on current available 
rates, now that the mortgage term has expired. I think this is fair in all the 
circumstances.
Responses to the provisional decision
Mr S and Mrs B and SBS have all accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the file again and revisited my provisional decision. Ive noted the agreement 
of all parties to the outcome of the complaint. Given this, for the reasons set out above, I see 
no reason to depart from my provisional decision, and I am upholding the complaint.
Putting things right
Mr S and Mrs B took out a tracker rate product in October 2021 which ran to the end of the 
mortgage term (which has now expired). Because they were on a tracker rate, they have 
made higher repayments than they would have made if theyd been on a fixed rate, so have 
effectively been overcharged.
I think that SBS should look at the  rates that would have been available to Mr S and Mrs B 
in October 2021 if SBS had not declined the request for a term extension. SBS should then 
do the following:
calculate the difference between the repayments made at the best two-year rate 
available and the actual payments made on the mortgage from October 2021 to date (A);
either (whichever Mr S and Mrs B prefers):
reimburse A to Mr S and Mrs B; or
reduce the capital balance of the mortgage by A;
pay interest on the overpayments used to calculate A at 8% per annum simple* from the 
date each monthly payment was made to the date of reimbursement (B);
pay compensation of £500 for distress and inconvenience (C).
SBS has also said it will consider a final term extension, based on current available rates, 
now that the mortgage term has expired. I think this is fair in all the circumstances. 
When accepting this final decision, Mr S and Mrs B will need to decide whether they want 
the overpayments reimbursed to them or applied to reducing the capital balance of the 
mortgage.
* If Skipton considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from any interest, it should tell Mr S and Mrs B how much it has taken off. Skipton should 
also give Mr S and Mrs B a tax deduction certificate if requested, so the tax can be 
reclaimed from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Skipton Building Society to settle it 
as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman