DRN-3464707
The complaint
Mrs B and Mrs L have complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) acted 
irresponsibly by increasing the limit on Mrs Bs overdraft and continuing to apply charges to 
her account when she was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mrs B held an account with NatWest with an overdraft limit of £3,000. In June of 2017 
NatWest approved an online application to increase the limit to £5,000 and again to £7,500 
in November. 
Mrs B and Mrs L complained to NatWest that Mrs B had been caught up in a scam and that 
she should never have been approved for the overdraft increase in limit and it shouldnt have 
been allowed to continue. 
NatWest says that the applications for increased limits were made online and that the credits 
coming into the account matched or exceeded the income declared. It says Mrs Bs 
application meet its lending criteria  which included carrying out credit checks and 
considering other borrowing  and deemed the limit increases as affordable and didnt agree 
it had made a mistake.
But following the complaint being brought to our service and as it had been made aware that 
the lending was taken as part of a scam as a gesture of goodwill NatWest offered to:
Refund any debit interest back to the account from November 2017 when the second 
overdraft increase occurred;
This totalled £5,495.06 but as Mrs B had already had a refund of £239.06 it was 
offering £5,256;
It would also look to remove the current overdraft facility of £1,000 from the account.
Our adjudicator was of the view that NatWest shouldnt have approved the increase in limit 
to £7,500 in November 2017 without carrying out further checks as they felt further checks 
wouldve shown Mrs B was having difficulty managing her money and that the amount she 
was applying for was five times more than was being credited to the account on a monthly 
basis. 
Mrs B and Mrs L didnt want to accept NatWests offer and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think that what NatWest has already agreed to do to put things right for Mrs B is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that when Mrs B applied for her the first 
increase in limit in June 2017, there wasnt any information that NatWest had to suggest Mrs 
B was in financial difficulty and wouldnt be able to pay back her overdraft within a 
reasonable period of time. Though I accept up until October 2016 Mrs B wasnt using her 
overdraft and it was from around November 2016 that large payments started being 
transferred out to a third party account holder. But use of an overdraft facility in itself isnt 
necessarily a sign of financial difficulty. And Mrs Bs statements show regular deposits being 
paid in which were enough to clear her overdraft balance or significantly reduce it and that 
overall she was managing her account well and that there were no signs of financial 
difficulty. 
I sympathise with Mrs B and Mrs L in that the large transfers out were funding an ongoing 
scam  and that is most upsetting. But unfortunately, NatWest werent informed of the 
situation and there is nothing in the statements, I think  and especially considering who the 
transfers were made to - which ought to have aroused NatWests suspicions.
But Im in agreement with our adjudicator - and for the same reasons - that the final increase 
to £7,500 of the overdraft limit in November 2017 wasnt affordable and NatWest should 
rework Mrs Bs account to remove all interest and charges added to her account from this 
point onwards. 
It might help for me to explain that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did something 
wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would be in if that 
wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a consumer in 
the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been charged the fees and given the credit they 
shouldnt have.
So where a business increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility 
which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer 
in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that 
credit. This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added 
to any credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable  in this 
case November 2017. 
As NatWest has already offered to pay back all interest and charges from November 2017 
(minus refunds already agreed), Im satisfied that what NatWest has already agreed to do to 
put things right for Mrs B and Mrs L is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
case and Im not requiring it to do anything more than what is offered. As this is the case, its 
up to Mrs B and Mrs L to decide whether they wish to accept NatWests offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what National Westminster Bank Plc has 
already agreed to do to put things right for Mrs B and Mrs L is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman