DRN-3552728
Complaint
Mr Y is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) closed his current account and 
savings account without notice. 
Background
In April 2021, Barclays placed a block on Mr Ys account. It did this after it received a 
notification from a third-party bank that its customer had been scammed into sending funds 
to Mr Ys current account. After Barclays also received a similar report from one of its 
customers it decided to review Mr Ys account and closed it without notice at the end of      
April 2021. 
Mr Y complained to Barclays. Barclays looked at Mr Ys complaint and didnt uphold it. As  
Mr Y remained dissatisfied, he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ys concerns. She didnt think that Barclays had a 
justified reason to close Mr Ys account without notice and thought that it needed to pay Mr Y 
£100 in compensation. Barclays disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered matters, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ys complaint. Ill explain why 
in a little more detail. 
I accept that Barclays, or any other bank for that matter, is under no obligation to continue 
offering an account to a customer if it doesnt wish to do so. So Barclays was perfectly 
entitled to take the decision that it no longer wanted Mr Y as a customer. But good industry 
practice suggests a bank should provide appropriate notice before closing an account, so as 
to allow the customer to make alternative arrangements with a different bank and I think that 
Barclays failed to do that here. 
Barclays says that it didnt need to provide Mr Y with notice as terms and conditions for 
personal customers entitled it to close an account without notice. Ive looked at Barclays 
terms and conditions for personal customers and as far as I can see, they only permit 
Barclays to close an account without notice in certain circumstances. One of those 
circumstances is where a customer commits (or attempts) fraud. Barclays believes that Mr Y 
did this here. But I dont agree that Barclays did have sufficient grounds to reasonably reach 
such a conclusion here. 
I say this because although Barclays was entitled to review Mr Ys account and also block 
access to it for 15 days, after it received the notifications it did, it completed its investigation 
without obtaining Mr Ys version of events. I have to question how it could have fairly and 
reasonably assessed Mr Ys knowledge and intention and conclude hed committed or 
attempted fraud without giving him a chance to explain what happened - arguably this in 
itself is unfair. 
Mr Y has since said that he and his ex-partner were selling goods online in January 2021 
and February 2021. And Mr Ys bank statements do support his account having received a 
number of payments for this reason. So it isnt immediately apparent to me that the 
payments in question were unusual or out of the ordinary.
Furthermore, its also worth pointing out that only two of the number of transactions which 
took place in January 2021 and February 2021 were flagged as potentially being fraudulent 
and I think that this is important here. 
I think this is the case not because the activity on Mr Ys account suggests that he was only 
involved in two fraudulent transactions  after all as Barclays points out a single actual 
fraudulent transaction is enough to justify closing an account without notice, but because   
Mr Y had been involved in selling a number of items. And, in my view, this means there was 
a reasonable possibility that Barclays had received the notifications it did as a result of a 
misunderstanding, rather than because fraudulent activity had taken place. 
Indeed, I note that both the notifications Barclays received said the payee of the funds had 
reported not receiving goods that theyd transferred funds to Mr Y for and Mr Y says he had 
the evidence to show that hed sent the items in question. I think that Mr Y would have told 
Barclays this and provided the evidence had it asked him for his version of events during the 
course of its investigation. So Im satisfied that Barclays failure to ask Mr Y for his version of 
events led to it unfairly concluding that Mr Y had committed or attempted fraud.
Barclays has since said that it also had reason to close Mr Ys account because hes 
confirmed that he accepted payments for items his ex-partner had sold. Ive thought about 
what Barclays has said, but I cant see that Barclays terms and conditions for personal 
customers permitted it to close Mr Ys account without notice for this reason.
So while I accept that Barclays could close Mr Ys account because it decided it no longer 
wanted him as a customer, Im not satisfied that it had sufficient grounds to close Mr Ys 
account without providing him with notice first.
As our adjudicator explained, Mr Y has explained that Barclays closing his accounts 
immediately and without notice caused him distress. Hes said he had to go a branch and 
withdraw his money, he had to manually move all his direct debits and he also had to find 
another bank to open a new account with at very short notice. 
I think that all of this would have been avoided if Barclays had treated Mr Y fairly and 
reasonably and provided him with reasonable notice before closing his accounts. As this is 
the case, I think that Barclays should pay Mr Y £100 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its actions in unfairly closing Mr Ys account without notice caused.  
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Barclays had sufficient grounds 
to close Mr Ys account without notice. As this is the case, I think that it was unfair for 
Barclays to Mr Ys account in the way that it did. So Im upholding Mr Ys complaint and 
Barclays should pay Mr Y £100 in compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ys complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC 
should pay Mr Y £100 in compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman