DRN-4355013
The complaint
Mr L complains that Wise Payments Limited wont refund money he lost as part of a scam.
What happened
In early 2020, Mr L fell victim to an investment scam. He sent money from his account at 
another firm (that Ill call N) to several genuine cryptocurrency providers and Wise, before 
moving those funds to a fraudulent trading platform. 
Mr L believed that he was trading successfully and was encouraged to deposit more and 
more money. In January 2021, Mr L was told that the value of his investment had 
dramatically decreased and hed need to put in more money. 
From his Wise account, Mr L made two international payments, three months apart, both in 
excess of £30,000 and totalling £66,550. I understand Mr L opened his Wise account for the 
purpose of making these payments, though there was over a week between the account 
being opened and the first payment being sent.
After Mr L refused to invest more money, his trading account balance dropped to zero and 
the trading platform disappeared.
He complained to both Wise and N in late 2022. Both firms said they werent responsible for 
his loss. Mr L referred both complaints to our service. N offered to repay 50% of part of Mr 
Ls loss, but it said that he should pursue the payments that went to Wise with it. Mr L 
accepted Ns offer.
One of our Investigators considered, but didnt uphold, Mr Ls complaint about Wise. They 
thought that, taking into account the kind of service Wise offered, it shouldnt have 
considered the payments Mr L made to be particularly suspicious. They noted that N had 
provided warnings to Mr L, but they hadnt changed his decision to go ahead with the 
investment. They thought that, had Wise done the same, the result would have been no 
different.  
Mr Ls representatives disagreed. In summary they said:
- The values of the payments were very high and should have prompted an 
intervention by Wise.
- Electronic Money Institutions (EMIs) like Wise are not exempt from providing fraud 
protections.
- It is an established and well-known pattern of fraud for funds to be credited to a new 
account and instantly moved on.
- Newer accounts pose a heightened risk of fraud, particularly new electronic money 
accounts.
- A high street bank would never allow similar activity on a new account.
- Ns warning was not sufficient, as evidenced by the fact it admitted liability for some 
of the loss.
- Other decisions issued by our service have said that Wise ought to have questioned 
far smaller sums.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point under the relevant regulations is that Mr L is responsible for payments hes 
authorised himself. But taking into account regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time these payments 
were made, I think Wise ought, fairly and reasonably, to have been on the lookout for out of 
character and unusual transactions and other indications that its customer might be at risk of 
financial harm from fraud. 
Its undisputed that, as Mr Ls account was new, the transactions were not out of character 
for him. Mr Ls representatives appear to argue that the transactions were out of character in 
general and ought to have been concerning because they match a known fraud pattern. 
While Im sorry to hear that Mr L has lost out, Im not persuaded by this argument. Wise is an 
EMI that specialises in international payments. I understand that, for many of its customers, 
it will be used occasionally to make such a payment. And, Id reasonably expect that many 
customers looking to make international payments would, within a relatively short space of 
time, open an account, deposit money and send it to an international recipient. So, the 
pattern of activity is, in my view, likely to be consistent with the way many customers 
legitimately use their accounts. 
I dont think a fair comparison can be made with high street banks, other EMIs or even Wise 
in circumstances where payments are being made domestically. In this case, there would be 
no reason for Wise to think that the payment journey had been artificially or unnecessarily 
extended by the fraudsters.
So, I dont agree that the pattern of transactions ought to have given Wise concern, but the 
amounts of the payments were significant. I think Wise should have provided a warning 
proportionate to the risk the payments presented. In this case, given that it was only the 
amounts that were of concern, I think a tailored written warning would have been 
proportionate. Wise didnt provide such a warning, but N did before payments in June and 
August 2020.
That warning provided a link to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) warning list  which, 
at that point, would have had a warning about the firm that Mr L was investing in. It also 
provided a link to the FCA register and advised Mr L to check that the firm he was dealing 
with was FCA authorised. It wasnt. Mr L made payments from his account at N after seeing 
such warnings. And, while I dont suggest that the warning provided by N was perfect, it did 
outline some key risks and the steps that Mr L needed to take to avoid them. Id expect a 
written warning provided by Wise to be similar in nature. As Mr L moved past Ns warning, I 
cant reasonably conclude that a similar warning would have dissuaded him from going 
ahead with the payments from his Wise account. I must also take into account that it would 
be more difficult for any such warning to have had a positive impact on Mr Ls decision making in these circumstances as, I understand, he was receiving guidance from the 
fraudsters about how to make the payments and had given them access to his computer.
So, while Ive found that Wise should have done more here, I dont find that it has caused Mr 
Ls loss. 
Finally, it appears that Wise did attempt to recover Mr Ls money, but did not get a response 
from the bank which received it. Given that he did not report the fraud for several years and 
the payments were sent internationally (which, in my experience, significantly reduces the 
chance of successful recovery) I dont find this surprising.
Overall, Im sympathetic to Mr L, but I dont find that Wise are responsible for his loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman