DRN-2612184
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Vs complaint is about a mortgage they hold with Nationwide Building Society. 
They believe that the overpayments theyve made havent been allocated to the mortgage 
properly and so the interest charged on it is incorrect. 
In settlement of the complaint they want Nationwide to provide a full breakdown of the 
overpayments and interest, detailing how it has calculated the figures.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Vs mortgage was due to end in the autumn of 2017. They began speaking to 
Nationwide about this in early 2017 and continued to do so until the autumn of that year. 
They arranged with Nationwide for it to be extended by two years to end in October 2019. 
On 8 Sept 2017 the mortgage overpayment reserve was detailed as £16,428.43 on a 
statement sent to Mr and Mrs V. However, when they received another statement for the end 
of December 2017, the overpayment reserve was only £500. 
Mr and Mrs V complained to Nationwide about the overpayment reserve having 
disappeared from their mortgage. They said they werent told this would happen, meaning 
they would no longer be able to use the borrow back facility when they extended the term on 
the mortgage. 
Nationwide responded to the complaint and acknowledged that none of its staff had 
mentioned to Mr and Mrs V during the discussions about the mortgage that it was 
Nationwides policy to capitalise any overpayment funds when a mortgage was extended at 
the end of the term. It apologised for not having explained this to Mr and Mrs V and sent 
them £100 compensation for this omission.  
The overpayment reserve was reinstated in early 2018 and backdated to October 2017 
when the term extension took effect. However, this didnt take account of the additional 
payments made between the September 2017 statement and the date of the term change. 
Nationwide wrote to Mr and Mrs V setting out the interest that had been charged on the 
account, including detailing the relevant balance, between 1 September 2017 and 
31 December 2017. Nationwide also confirmed that the overpayment reserve had been 
recredited with a lower balance than it should have been  it was recredited at the amount of 
£16,428.43 that Mr and Mrs V had quoted as being the overpayment reserve on the last 
statement theyd received before the term extension. Nationwide confirmed that the balance 
hadnt taken into account the additional payments made prior to the term extension being 
keyed on 12 October 2017. As such, a further adjustment was made to increase the 
overpayment reserve to £17,105.31 as at 12 October 2017. It was also confirmed that all 
overpayments made since would have been credited to the balance of the overpayment 
reserve and would continue to do so while Mr and Mrs V made additional payments. 
Nationwide has confirmed the revised overpayment balance was calculated as follows:
Overpayment balance as at 8 September 2017: £16,428.43
Plus 11 September mortgage payment of £426.88 £16,855.31
Less 1 October payment debit of £426.88 £16,428.43
Plus 3 October overpayment of £250.00 £16,678.43
Plus 11 October mortgage payment of £426.88 £17,105.31
The subsequent monthly payment due was deducted from this figure.
Mr and Mrs V remained unhappy and in July 2019 Nationwide wrote to them again. It 
confirmed the amount of interest that had been paid between the September 2017 and 
January 2018 statements. Nationwide explained how the figure had been calculated; based 
on a daily interest rate. In addition, it was confirmed the figure detailed in the September 
2017 statement had been the interest calculated between 31 December 2016 (when the 
previous statement had been sent) and 8 September 2017. A breakdown of interest from 
inception of the mortgage was provided, including the amounts paid and the charging 
balance. 
Nationwide confirmed that a separate letter of apology had been sent about an 
administration failing that had caused Mr and Mrs Vs complaint to be voided, and 
Nationwide confirmed this mistake had been taken into account when it had offered 
Mr and Mrs V £250 compensation. It repeated that it was satisfied that the interest on the 
account had been calculated correctly. 
Further correspondence was exchanged and Nationwide said the account adjustment  the 
reinstatement of the overpayment balance  had been correctly made and no additional 
interest had been charged. It said it appreciated itd delayed responding to Mr and Mrs V and 
added a further £25 to the previous offer of compensation. 
Mr and Mrs V remained unhappy with Nationwides response and referred their complaint to 
this service. They were believed that the overpayment balance was wrong.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but having examined the breakdown of 
the account Nationwide had provided, she was satisfied that all the payments made had 
been accounted for. She said that if Mr and Mrs V remained of the belief that there had been 
mis-calculations on their mortgage, they would need to pay for a suitably qualified individual 
to audit their account, as this was not something this service could do. If any mistakes were 
identified, we could consider the matter further. She considered the offer of compensation 
was appropriate in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs V didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They repeated that the 
overpayment reserve balance had been reinstated incorrectly. They explained this balance 
effects the outstanding mortgage balance on which interest is paid. If it was lower than it 
should be, the interest-bearing balance would be higher than it should be and so more 
interest would be paid. They were also unhappy that Nationwide wouldnt provide proof of 
the account adjustments it said it had made. They also said the amount offered as 
compensation didnt reflect the time that had been spent on the complaint.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Vs comments, but they didnt change her 
conclusions. Mr and Mrs V subsequently asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for consideration. 
Following this Mr and Mrs V confirmed that theyd made a data subject access request 
(DSAR) to Nationwide and intended to use the information obtained to have their mortgage 
account independently audited. As such, they temporarily withdrew the complaint. The 
complaint was re-opened three months later and they were given a further period to provide 
any additional evidence they wanted considered by the ombudsman. Mr and Mrs V again put forward the calculations theyd completed about overpayments theyd made and 
borrow-backs theyd taken from the reserve.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Vs complaint came about because the overpayment balance was removed from 
their account. This was retrospectively reinstated as at 12 October 2017, which is the date it 
was removed. Unfortunately, this was initially done incorrectly as the Nationwide adviser 
used the amount Mr and Mrs V quoted from the statement theyd received on 
8 September2017. This figure being £16,428.43. 
It was later realised that this hadnt taken into account the payments made between the 
September statement and the date of the reinstatement in October. I have examined the 
figures Nationwide has provided us with and the overpayment balance it used as at 
12 October 2017 does appear to have been correctly calculated.
As our investigator explained, this service doesnt complete forensic examinations of a 
consumers accounts and so I cant confirm for certain that Nationwide has calculated the 
interest on Mr and Mrs Vs account correctly. However, I have carefully looked at the 
account breakdown that has been provided of the credits and debits on the account. I am 
satisfied this takes account of all the payments Mr and Mrs V have made since their 
mortgage was altered in 2017. As such, it would appear that the interest calculations are 
correct. In the absence of any evidence that there are missing payments that havent been 
taken into account in the calculation, I cant require Nationwide to take any action.
Mr and Mrs V have said that the compensation Nationwide has offered them is inadequate. I 
have considered the errors that Nationwide made and I consider the amount offered is 
appropriate in the circumstances. If Mr and Mrs V want to accept the compensation offered, 
they should contact Nationwide directly.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs V to accept or reject my decision 
before 5 October 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman