DRN-2332991
The complaint
Mrs G complained that she was mis-sold a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy by Tesco Personal Finance plc (Tesco).
What happened
Mrs G took out the policy in May 1999 when she applied for a credit card. She couldnt 
remember much about the sale, but said that she didnt recall PPI being disclosed to her. 
Tesco said that Mrs G filled in an application form for the card and PPI and that she wasnt 
advised to take the cover. 
The policy cost 70p per £100.00 owed. If Mrs G had successfully claimed on the policy for 
accident, sickness or unemployment, each month it wouldve paid out 10% of the balance 
outstanding when she stopped work. This wouldve carried on for up to 12 months per claim.  
The policy also provided life cover.
Our adjudicator thought Mrs G wouldnt have taken the PPI if shed been fully informed 
about it, so she upheld the complaint. Tesco didnt agree and asked for it to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Tesco sent us a copy of Mrs Gs credit card application form. From whats on the form, it 
looks as though Mrs G applied for the card in response to a mailshot. Theres a section on 
the form headed extra optional services and I can see that Mrs G signed in this part of the 
form to confirm that she wanted PPI. She could have left it blank if she didnt want it. So I 
think Mrs G had a choice about taking the PPI, and decided to do so  I think she probably 
just doesnt remember it as it was all so long ago.
Im satisfied Tesco didnt advise Mrs G to take out the policy, so it didnt need to make sure 
that the PPI was suitable for her. But it shouldve given her enough information for her to 
decide whether the policy was right for her. Im not satisfied that it did. 
The credit card application only shows brief details of the PPI cover  and doesnt include 
any mention of the premium, although theres a reference to a summary of cover. Tesco sent 
in a copy of the full policy document, but not a summary of cover. So I dont know what 
information about the cost and benefits Mrs G wouldve had available to her when she filled 
in the form. As a result I cant say that this information was clearly explained.
From what Mrs G told us about her circumstances, I dont think shed have been affected by 
any of the main exclusions in the PPI policy. However, Mrs G told us that she wouldve been 
entitled to 12 months full sick pay from her employer, and although, when she brought her 
complaint to us, she didnt mention having had any savings, I can see that Tesco has 
referred to a telephone conversation it had with Mrs G when she said shed had savings she 
couldve relied on  the amount mentioned was equivalent to three to four months pay. 
Mrs G sent in a copy of her contract of employment, and it confirms Mrs Gs entitlement to 
12 months full sick pay after ten years service (the entitlement was nine months sick pay 
for service between five and ten years). From the date on the contract it looks as though Mrs 
G was just a few months short of ten years service when she took out the credit card and 
PPI  although the credit card application shows her as having been with her employer for 
over ten years, so its possible she was working for the same company in some other 
capacity at the date the employment contract was issued. 
Taking into account Mrs Gs sick pay entitlement was due to increase shortly after taking out 
the credit card, and that she quite possibly had some savings to rely on, I think she couldve 
kept up the payments on the credit card for quite some while, even if she couldnt work. So 
overall, taking into account her circumstances, I dont think Mrs G wouldve considered the 
PPI to be good value for her.
Because of this, I dont think Mrs G wouldve decided to take out the PPI with the credit card 
if shed fully understood the cost and benefits. This means Mrs G is worse off as a result of 
what Tesco did wrong, so it needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Tesco should put Mrs G in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. Tesco should find out how much Mrs G would have owed when she closed her credit 
card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
Tesco should then refund the difference between what Mrs G owed when she closed 
her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Tesco can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
B. Tesco should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs G would have 
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when Tesco works out what Mrs G would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs 
G paid more than enough to clear her balance, Tesco should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mrs G paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs G 
wouldve owed Tesco something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D. Tesco should tell Mrs G what its done to work out A, B and C. HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco to take off tax from this interest. Tesco must give Mrs G a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Tesco Personal 
Finance plc should pay her the compensation Ive described.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman