DRN-3467997
Complaint
Mr G complains Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) unfairly lent to him.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mr G with a loan for £2,000.00 in November 2020. This loan was 
due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of just over £90. One of our adjudicators 
reviewed Mr Gs complaint and she thought 118 118 Money shouldnt have provided Mr G 
with his loan. 118 118 Money disagreed, so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Gs complaint. 118 118 
Money needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. So 118 118 Money needed to carry 
out proportionate checks to understand whether Mr G could afford to repay his loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for 
example, a borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the 
lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the 
borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to be able to show that it 
didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money may argue that the relatively low monthly payments meant that a light touch 
assessment would have been proportionate here. But Im mindful that the credit check 
carried out showed clear signs that Mr G was already significantly indebted and struggling to 
manage what he already owed. So I think that 118 118 Money ought to have found out more 
about more about Mr G before determining that this loan was affordable for him. 
I think further checks would have extended into finding out more about Mr Gs expenditure. 
And if 118 118 Money had done this here, Im persuaded that it would have seen that Mr G 
was already in a difficult financial position at the time and also found out why this was the 
case. Im also satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not 
have shown 118 118 Money that Mr Gs existing precarious financial position was because 
he was struggling as a result of personal issues. 
So Im persuaded by what Mr G has said about already being in a difficult financial position 
at the time and the reasons for this. And as reasonable and proportionate checks should 
have extended into finding out about Mr Gs income and expenditure, Im satisfied that they 
would more like than not have shown 118 118 Money that it shouldnt have provided this 
loan to Mr G. As 118 118 Money provided Mr G with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im 
satisfied it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. Mr G ended up paying interest, 
fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt have been provided with in the first place. So Im 
satisfied that Mr G lost out because of what 118 118 Money did wrong and that it should put 
things right.
Fair compensation  what 118 118 Money needs to do to put things right for Mr G
Having thought about everything, 118 118 Money should put things right for Mr G by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr G made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the 
£2,000.00 originally lent. If Mr G has already repaid more than £2,000.00 then 118 
118 Money should treat any extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should 
be refunded to Mr G;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr G to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information 118 118 Money recorded about this loan should be removed from Mr Gs 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest. 118 118 
Money must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Id also remind 118 118 Money of its obligation to exercise forbearance and due 
consideration if it intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should an outstanding 
balance remain after all adjustments have been made to the account and its the case that 
Mr G is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint. Madison CF UK Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman