DRN-3157836
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC returned his cheque unpaid. He also complains 
about the delays and customer service issues he experienced when he asked for money to 
be transferred from his account.
What happened
In January 2021, Mr L wrote a cheque for £18,000 to buy some premium bonds. A few days 
later, Barclays notified him that theyd refused his cheque as the signature on the cheque 
didnt match the signature mandate on their system.
Mr L didnt accept that there could be a major difference in his signature and said he has 
never had this problem in the past. He agreed for Barclays to transfer the money instead. 
Barclays confirmed the transfer was made successfully on 15 February 2021. 
On 5 March 2021, Mr L contacted Barclays as the money hadnt arrived in his receiving 
account. The funds werent in his Barclays account either. Barclays looked into this and 
explained the money was in their internal account  which they returned to Mr Ls account.
Barclays eventually transferred the money as per Mr Ls instructions on 8 March 2021. They 
apologised for the difficulties and inconvenience caused to Mr L in making the transfer. They 
offered him £100 compensation.
Mr L referred his complaint to us. Our investigator said that Barclays had acted reasonably in 
returning the cheque as the signatures differed. She agreed Barclays caused delays in 
processing the transfer but felt the compensation of £100 was fair and reasonable. Mr L 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ls account sets out reasons when Barclays doesnt have to 
follow an instruction from him. Amongst the listed reasons, the most relevant to this case are 
if the instruction isnt complete or clear or if Barclays doesnt think it came from Mr L.
Ive looked at the signature on the mandate held by Barclays and compared this to the 
cheque. 
Having done so, I agree the signatures are quite different. So, I think Barclays were within 
their rights, as per the terms and conditions of the account to return the cheque unpaid. I say 
this because Barclays had legitimate concerns about whether the instructions to pay the 
cheque was from Mr L.
I agree with Mr L that no two signatures are exactly the same and signatures will likely alter 
slightly over time. But Barclays have an obligation to protect Mr Ls account. Given that the 
cheque was for a large sum of money and the signature on the cheque was different to the 
one held on their system, I cant fairly say that it was unreasonable for Barclays to decline 
the cheque.
Mr L feels Barclays couldve called him to check if hed signed the cheque. Barclays have 
explained they sent a notification letter as it isnt practical from them to call every customer 
due to the volumes of unpaid items they manage each day. 
It isnt my role to interfere with Barclays commercial judgement on how to run the day-to-day 
operations of their business. This means Barclays are entitled to decide how to contact their 
customers. While I agree a phone call is the quickest way, I dont think sending a letter was 
unreasonable.
Mr L has explained that Barclays shouldve known that the cheque wouldnt have been 
accepted for the purchase of premium bonds, if it wasnt from him. I disagree. I wouldnt 
reasonably expect Barclays to be aware of and keep up to date on the account opening 
process or criteria of other financial business.
I know Mr L is keen to see a copy of the signature mandate and hes unhappy Barclays 
wont send it to him in the post. Barclays have explained this is due to security concerns 
around the post being intercepted which may lead to fraud. 
As Ive explained above, Barclays have a responsibility to protect Mr Ls account  which 
includes preventing fraud. In doing so, it isnt unreasonable for Barclays to take precautions, 
even if Mr L feels its unnecessary. I can see Barclays have offered for Mr L to see a copy of 
the signature mandate at a branch  I think its a fair and reasonable suggestion.
All things considered, I dont think Barclays acted unfairly or unreasonably in returning Mr Ls 
cheque unpaid. That said, I agree they gave him poor customer service in handling his 
request to transfer funds out of his account. Ill explain why.
Mr L asked Barclays to make a transfer on 12 February 2021. This was a fairly 
straightforward transaction which shouldve been processed the same day or the next 
working day  so by 15 February 2021 at the latest. 
However, due to an error on Barclays part, it took several attempts to transfer the funds 
which was eventually successful on 8 March 2021. This delay wouldve caused Mr L 
frustration and annoyance as he wasnt able to purchase his premium bonds when he 
expected. 
Barclays also quoted the wrong sort code in their final response letter of 15 February 2021. 
This no doubt wouldve been worrying for Mr L as he was led to believe his money was sent 
to the wrong account. But I can see from the call notes, that Barclays confirmed it was a typo 
and apologised within a few hours of Mr L raising this. 
When Mr L complained on 5 March 2021, the funds had left his Barclays account but hadnt 
arrived at the recipient account. Barclays resolved this the next working day, but Mr L still 
had to wait for an answer over the weekend which I think wouldve been worrying and 
stressful for him. 
It has taken a reasonable amount of time and effort on Mr Ls part to resolve this issue  he 
had to have multiple conversations over the phone and send letters. He was caused 
unnecessary worry, stress and frustration by the difficulties in making the transfer.Mr L feels an appropriate amount of compensation is £1,661.94 and has provided a 
breakdown of this amount. It covers the time spent on the calls, drafting and posting letters, 
postage costs, delays in purchasing his premium bonds, compensation for frustration, upset 
and inconvenience. 
I think its important to explain that any award of compensation we make isnt intended to 
punish the financial business. Sometimes mistakes do happen and inevitably this may cause 
the consumer inconvenience, frustration and annoyance. 
This doesnt mean the consumer must be compensated in all circumstances. Instead, wed 
look at the impact on any errors on the consumer. Also, we dont compensate for the 
consumers time in units as calculated by Mr L. But Ive factored this into the inconvenience 
he was caused. 
I accept Mr L encountered a number of issues when he requested a bank transfer from his 
account, and he was caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience. But Barclays have 
apologised, kept him updated and acted quickly to resolve the problem within a few days of 
Mr Ls complaint of 5 March 2021.
Taking into account the impact on Mr L, I think the £100 compensation offered by Barclays is 
fair and reasonable for the distress and inconvenience he experienced. I know Mr L feels 
strongly about his complaint, but I cant fairly say that the impact on him was significant 
enough to warrant further compensation. 
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays have put things right fairly here and I wont be asking them to 
do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay 
Mr L £100 compensation, if they havent done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman