DRN-1773654
The complaint
Mrs H has complained about the advice given by JLT Wealth Management Limited (JLT) to 
transfer a defined benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension. 
What happened
In November 2014 Mrs Hs former employer wrote to her with an offer to take her OPS 
benefits early. It explained it had engaged JLT to provide Mrs H with impartial financial 
advice to help her decide what to do.
Mrs H completed a fact-find and spoke to a JLT adviser in January 2015 about her financial 
circumstances and objectives. In March 2015, JLT advised Mrs H to transfer her OPS 
benefits to a capped-drawdown personal pension, to meet her objective of taking tax-free 
cash (TFC) now and taking the remaining sum over the next three years. In the interim the 
remaining funds would be invested in a low risk fund. The recommendation was accepted 
and the transfer went ahead.
In 2019 Mrs H complained after she had experienced difficulties accessing her pension. She 
said on reflection she thought she had been poorly advised, and shouldve instead been 
advised to remain in her OPS.
JLT didnt agree. It said the advice was suitable, based on Mrs Hs needs and objectives at 
the time of the advice. JLT said the fact-find and recordings of phone calls with the adviser 
demonstrated that Mrs H wanted to access her pension and pass it on to her family, rather 
than see the benefit of it in the future. JLT said the issue Mrs H was having with accessing 
her pension was not related to the advice it provided.
Mrs H referred her complaint to our service, as well as a complaint about her personal 
pension provider about the difficulties she was facing taking her benefits.
Our investigator upheld the complaint against JLT. He didnt think Mrs H had an immediate 
need to access her TFC and by transferring, he thought Mrs H would be worse off in 
retirement. The investigator didnt think all of the viable alternatives had been explored by 
the adviser and he didnt know enough about Mrs Hs other pension provisions to determine 
that she could afford to lose the guaranteed benefits her OPS provided. He recommended 
Mrs H should be put back into the position she wouldve been in if shed been advised to 
remain in her OPS and that JLT should pay her £150 compensation.
JLT didnt agree. It said Mrs H had made it clear to the adviser she wasnt relying on this 
pension in retirement and wanted to have the money now rather than in the future. It said the 
call recordings showed the adviser understood Mrs Hs existing arrangements and the 
transfer was justified.
As JLT disagreed, the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator. Ill explain 
why.
JLT was engaged by Mrs Hs former employer to provide her with advice. At the time, a 
business providing pensions advice was required to do so in accordance with the regulators 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). COBS 9.2 required JLT to take reasonable 
steps to make sure its recommendation was suitable for Mrs H. To achieve this, COBS 
9.2.2R said JLT had to obtain enough information from Mrs H to ensure its recommendation 
met her objectives, that she could bear the related investment risks consistent with these 
objectives and that she had the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the 
risks involved in the transaction.
COBS also contains specific rules in relation to advising customers on their OPS benefits. 
COBS 19.1.6 states:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by 
assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, 
that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
This is because OPSs typically have significant benefits and guarantees. Giving up the 
benefits and guarantees available under an OPS and subjecting future pension income to 
the risks associated with unpredictable investment returns should only be done where it can 
be shown that it was clearly in the best interests of the consumer. Given what the regulator 
says, my starting point is that a transfer wont usually be suitable. So, therell need to be 
good reasons why a transfer would be in the consumers best interests. The transfer will also 
need to be suitable, taking into account the individuals particular circumstances.
JLT says its advice was suitable for Mrs H because she assured the adviser she had 
sufficient other pension provisions and wasnt relying on this pension for her retirement. JLT 
also says Mrs H was insistent that she wanted her family to benefit from the pension now 
rather than accessing it in the future. JLT points to the recordings of the conversations the 
adviser had with Mrs H and her husband on the phone to support this.
Ive considered the information gathered by the adviser in the fact-find. Ive also listened to 
the call recordings provided by JLT, which it says expand on the circumstances given in the 
fact find. Ive taken all of this into account to determine whether the advice was suitable and 
in Mrs Hs best interests. 
According to the fact-find completed by the adviser in January 2015 Mrs H was 56 and 
unemployed. Mrs H said she had sufficient income to meet her expenses and thought she 
would be able to retire at 60. Mrs H gave limited details of two other pensions she held. She 
said she owned three properties and had around £60,000 in cash, ISAs and shares. Mrs H 
told the adviser she had a small mortgage and two other small loans. Although the fact-find 
didnt specify, the assets and liabilities were most likely jointly held with her husband. Mrs H 
said that the OPS represented less than 25% of her retirement funding and it was noted that 
taking TFC was important to her. The adviser recorded that Mrs H wanted to live now and 
take the benefits whilst she was most likely to enjoy them. Mrs H said she did not want to 
take any risk as she had lost money in the past and had minimal investment experience.
The adviser followed this up with a phone call on 23 January 2015, in which he gathered 
further information from Mrs H but ultimately recommended she transfer out of her OPS. Ive listened to the call in full and I think its important to emphasise that a lot of information was 
given to Mrs H during it. Although the adviser checked several times to ensure Mrs H 
understood everything hed told her, Im not persuaded Mrs H was able to take all of this 
information in and understand the implications for her. I say this because Mrs H said she had 
minimal investment experience and in the call remarked that she was 'naive' in 
pension/investment matters. So although Mrs H was very enthusiastic about accessing her 
OPS benefits, I think the adviser wouldve had some influence over Mrs Hs decision.
During the call, the adviser sought further information from Mrs H about her other pensions. 
Mrs H said she had three other pensions but wasnt able to provide specific details, other 
than her length of service. She said that one of them was also an OPS. The adviser said that 
Mrs H had recorded in the fact-find that the OPS he was advising on represented less than 
25% of her retirement provisions  Mrs H clarified that it was probably more like 30% of her 
retirement funds. The adviser questioned Mrs Hs need for TFC now. Mrs H said that there 
wasnt a need, she just wanted it so she could maybe pass it on. Mrs H acknowledged that 
the OPS was a good pension, but she wanted to benefit from it now or invest in property.
At this point the adviser went through Mrs Hs options, which included taking benefits from 
the scheme now (with and without TFC) staying in the scheme and taking benefits at 65, 
transferring out and taking an annuity, or transferring out and reinvesting it after taking TFC. 
A lot of figures were provided to Mrs H, but ultimately the adviser said Mrs H would be better 
off staying in the scheme and taking benefits at 65. However, he acknowledged Mrs Hs 
desire to cash in the pension so the adviser recommended she transfer out of the OPS. The 
adviser said Mrs H had a strong capacity for loss and had good reasons for wanting the 
money, so he was comfortable with this. However, he said he would send Mrs H his report 
outlining his recommendations. The adviser asked Mrs H to read through it all and he would 
be in touch again to make sure she understood everything.
The report dated 10 March 2015 largely mirrored the conversation the adviser had with 
Mrs H, culminating in the recommendation that Mrs H transfer her OPS benefits to an 
alternative plan, take TFC now and draw the remaining sum over the next three years. The 
report repeated Mrs Hs circumstances, but despite Mrs H clarifying that the OPS 
represented around 30% of her retirement funds, the adviser stated:
These benefits represent an insignificant (less than 25%) of your total expected income in 
retirement
The report confirmed Mrs H had minimal investment experience and a no risk attitude to 
risk.
The adviser gave the following reasons for his recommendation:
Mrs H had no need for the income available through her OPS as her long-term 
income needs were already being met;
Mrs Hs husband had adequate pensions of his own so she did not need a spouses 
pension or for her own pension to increase in retirement;
Mrs H had a strong capacity for investment loss and a good understanding of 
investment risk;
The OPS represented less than 25% of Mrs Hs retirement provisions; and
Mrs H had expressed a preference to take TFC now and draw the remaining sums 
down in the following years in order to pass the money on to her family.
Ive considered all of this carefully, but I dont think the advisers recommendation was 
suitable for Mrs H.Usually, in order to determine whether a customer would be better off by transferring out of 
their OPS, the adviser would carry out a comparison of the OPS benefits with those that 
could be achieved through an alternative arrangement. This would be in the form of a  
Transfer Value Analysis report, which would show the investment growth required to match 
the benefits from the OPS. This would help determine the likelihood of Mrs H improving on 
the benefits she was giving up. But JLT says Mrs H wasnt attempting to increase her 
pension provision, hence why it recommended the benefits be transferred to a cash fund 
rather than being invested. It is also clear the adviser recognised that Mrs H would be better 
off by staying in her OPS and told Mrs H this. But I dont think he explained to her how 
valuable these benefits were.
The adviser clearly recognised that transferring out of an OPS wouldnt usually be suitable. 
But he appears to have based his recommendation to transfer out on Mrs Hs desire to 
access her money now and pass it on to her family, because she said she wasnt relying on 
these funds. But I dont think the adviser had enough information to reach this conclusion. 
He took it on face value that Mrs H had other pension provisions and that between her and 
Mr Hs pensions, they had enough funds to support them in retirement. But the adviser didnt 
know anything about Mr and Mrs Hs other pensions, other than that they existed. He didnt 
know how much income could be derived from these arrangements and he also didnt know 
what income Mr and Mrs H required in retirement to meet their needs. I dont think it was 
possible for him to reach a conclusion that Mrs H wasnt relying on this OPS in retirement 
without having a better understanding of her existing provisions and income needs.
Mr and Mrs H made it clear to the adviser that they had minimal investment experience and 
described themselves as nave in pension/investment matters. Furthermore, it is clear that 
Mrs H was confused by the recommendation  in the call she had with the adviser on 
18 March 2015 she said as much. She also thought she would be getting an income from 
the arrangement. So, for the adviser to base his recommendation on Mr and Mrs Hs own 
judgment of their circumstances and what they thought they needed was, in my view, 
inappropriate. JLT had a significant and overriding responsibility to challenge Mrs Hs 
objectives and beliefs and not accept them at face value. Mrs H wasnt a financial expert and 
was heavily reliant on JLT for its advice and expertise. So, I think it needed to do more than 
just note Mrs Hs objectives and agree to facilitate what she thought was the best way of 
achieving them, especially when there might be viable alternatives to meeting those goals 
and Mrs H was likely to be worse off as a result.
Mrs H told the adviser she had three other pensions. Mrs H said that one was an OPS so it 
would be fair to assume the other two were defined contribution schemes (DCS). Mrs H 
said in the January 2015 call that she wanted to benefit from one pension now. So, I think 
the adviser ought to have explored the values and benefits available under the other three 
pensions to see whether Mrs Hs objectives could be met by cashing in one of these 
pensions instead. In particular, accessing the funds held in a DCS wouldve been preferable 
as it would mean Mrs H wouldnt be giving up the guaranteed income available through her 
OPS. Mrs H also had significant savings and it isnt clear why she didnt want to use these 
funds to pass on to her family instead. I wouldve expected the adviser to explore this with 
Mrs H, as again, leaving her OPS intact was in Mrs Hs best interest.
Ultimately I dont think Mrs H shouldve been advised to transfer out of her OPS. This 
scheme represented around a third of Mrs Hs retirement provisions. It was safe, sheltered 
from any investment risk, and provided a guaranteed increasing pension in retirement. It 
would appear Mrs Hs other retirement provisions were exposed to risk  she mentioned that 
two of their properties would support their retirement, but this would only be guaranteed if a 
tenant or buyer could be found. Mrs H had a no risk attitude to risk, so the safest way of 
meeting her retirement needs was using the guaranteed income provided by her OPS. And while I note JLT recommended she transfer the OPS benefits to a cash fund, it was still 
being exposed to a degree of risk and the impact of the charges would gradually reduce the 
value of it over time. So, overall, I think Mrs H shouldve been advised to remain in her OPS 
and consider accessing her savings or cashing in an alternative pension if she wanted to 
pass on funds to her family now.
Ive thought about whether, if shed been correctly advised by JLT not to transfer, Mrs H 
would have gone ahead with the transfer anyway. Having carefully considered all the 
circumstances in this case, I dont believe she would have. Theres nothing to suggest that 
she was seriously considering transferring out of her OPS prior to her employer engaging 
JLT to provide the review. And she didnt appear to be proactively seeking transfer advice, 
as evidenced by the lack of any concrete objectives from Mrs H about what she was going to 
use the money for.
Had she been appropriately advised, I think its more likely that Mrs H would have chosen to 
stay with her OPS, as she had no pressing need for the money at the time and she had 
other options to meet her objectives if she still intended on passing money on to her family. 
Mrs H had lost money in the past, she had minimal investment experience and didnt want to 
take any risk. So, given those circumstances, I dont think she wouldve gone against the 
advice provided by a professional.
Although I think it is very unlikely, I accept its possible Mrs H may still have wanted to go 
ahead anyway. But I think, at the very least, if JLT had advised against this, that would have 
made her think about things. Alternatively, had Mrs H proceeded against such advice, JLT 
couldve discharged its professional responsibility to her appropriately. For example, it 
couldve treated her as an insistent client. However, as Ive said above, theres nothing to 
indicate Mrs H wouldve acted against the advice shed been given. So, ultimately I think JLT 
is responsible for her loss.
JLT says that Mrs H only complained because she had issues accessing her pension, which 
it wasnt responsible for. I accept that this appears to have been the trigger for the complaint, 
but it is clear to me that on reflection Mrs H didnt think she should have been advised to 
transfer out of her OPS. And for the reasons Ive set out above, I agree.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs H, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for JLTs unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs H  
would have remained in the occupational scheme. JLT must therefore undertake a  redress 
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the FCA in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Hs acceptance of the decision.
 
JLT may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Hs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Hs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
 
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this. 
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs H within 90 days of the date JLT 
receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must  be added 
to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final 
decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes  JLT to pay 
Mrs H.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
In addition, JLT should pay Mrs H £150 for the disruption to her retirement planning. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint. I direct JLT Wealth 
Management Limited to pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman