DRN-3801374
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt offer a solution when the term of their 
interest only mortgage expired. 
What happened
The term of Mr and Mrs Ps interest only mortgage expired in 2019 with an unpaid balance. 
Mr P says he spoke to Lloyds in 2019 and applied for a mortgage on a part repayment and 
part interest only basis over nine years. He says he applied again in mid-2020. Mr P says 
Lloyds made errors and failed properly to review the application or respond with a decision. 
Mr P set out a list of questions that he says Lloyds should answer.
Weve told Mr and Mrs P that we can only look into part of their complaint. Thats because 
theyd received a final response letter in March 2020 and hadnt brought the complaint to us 
until September 2021. This was more than six months after the final response letter and 
therefore outside our time limits. We can look into Mr and Mrs Ps complaints about what 
happened when they applied again, in July 2020. 
Lloyds said its end of term team took too long to make a decision after Mr and Mrs Ps 
application in July 2020. It said it hadnt provided a good service and paid £300 
compensation. Lloyds said the decision by its end of term team to decline Mr and Mrs Ps 
application wasnt an error. It said it would hold recovery action for a period while Mr and 
Mrs P looked into their options.
Our investigator said it wasnt clear that extending the mortgage term would be in Mr and 
Mrs Ps best interests. She said theyd still owe the balance at the end of the extension 
without means to repay it other than by selling the property. Our investigator said while 
Lloyds service had been poor, the compensation it paid was fair.
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree. Mr P gave detailed reasons for this. He said at this point it would 
be beneficial for the mortgage term to be extended to 2025 when they could take out an 
equity release product. This would repay the Lloyds mortgage and allow him to settle the 
debts in his debt management plan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P provided considerable detail about his complaint. I wont set out the same level of detail 
here. I can assure Mr P Ive read all of his comments. We provide an informal dispute 
resolution service. I have to decide what is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of 
this complaint. And I have to explain why I reach my decision. But Im not required to 
respond to each point made by Mr P.
Lloyds sent recordings of calls with Mr P. Mr P asked for copies of these calls, which we sent 
to him. Unfortunately, Mr P didnt receive the recordings or was unable to listen to them. Our 
investigator has arranged for copies to be sent to Mr P in another format. I appreciate that 
Mr P might want to comment on the call recordings, but after careful consideration I think I 
can reach a fair decision without this. Having listened to the calls and reviewed the evidence, 
I dont need Mr P to comment further on anything in the calls to reach a fair decision. 
Mr P was in contact with Lloyds in 2019 and early 2020. I wont be making any findings 
about those events here. Im aware of them as background and context to this complaint. 
Mr P is keen to emphasise that he applied for a mortgage plan or a new mortgage and not a 
term extension. He has more recently suggested a term extension. Ultimately, what Mr and 
Mrs P want is more time to repay the mortgage balance. So if I refer to an extension, this is 
what I mean.
Was Lloyds unfair to decline Mr and Mrs Ps application?
Rules on mortgage regulation allow Lloyds to waive the stringent rules that apply to interest 
only mortgages and allow variations to a mortgage despite concerns about affordability if its 
in a customers best interests. This is provided that certain conditions are met. 
Lloyds needed to make an objective assessment of Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances to decide 
what was in their best interests. Just because Mr and Mrs P wanted to do something, or 
expected it to make them better off, doesn't mean that it was unfair for Lloyds to decline their 
application.
Lloyds says for customers in Mr and Mrs Ps position there are three options. First, they can 
transfer onto a repayment basis. This wasnt affordable for Mr and Mrs P. Second, if they 
have a repayment vehicle the term can be extended on an interest only basis to match its 
maturity date. That wasnt the case here as Mr and Mrs P didnt have a repayment vehicle. 
The third option would be for Mr and Mrs P to take out a product that allows for the balance 
to be repaid in the future, such as a retirement interest only mortgage (RIO).
The term of Mr and Mrs Ps interest only mortgage expired in 2019. In July 2020 Mr P spoke 
to Lloyds. Lloyds asked for information about their income and outgoings. It asked Mr P what 
his plans were to repay the mortgage. Mr P said they wanted to stay in the property and 
move at a convenient time, possibly downsize in about 10 years. He said hed like to carry 
on with the same payments, or move to a part and part mortgage as previously discussed.
Lloyds said it would put the proposal forward for review as it had agreed to do that 
previously. But it told Mr P it was unlikely it would be accepted, as Mr and Mrs P didnt have 
an acceptable plan to repay the balance. It said they didnt have enough income to allow 
them to clear the mortgage balance within a reasonable term. Lloyds said it would consider 
payments on a part and part basis if there was a long-term solution at the end. For instance, 
if a pension lump sum would be available or if the balance would have reduced so that an 
equity release product became available. But Mr and Mrs P didnt have a plan other than to 
sell the property. Lloyds suggested Mr P take independent advice about his options. 
When Mr and Mrs P made the application in 2020 they didnt have a repayment vehicle in 
place or an acceptable plan to repay the interest only part of the mortgage. There was also a 
problem in that Mr P didnt accept that Lloyds policy meant that the interest only part of a 
part and part mortgage would have to be repaid after five years. But the main problem was 
the probability that at the end of any extension theyd have been in the same position, with 
no means to repay the mortgage other than to sell the property. 
Lloyds asked Mr P why he thought it would be better for them to sell the property in five 
years, rather than at that time. Mr P said their preference was to stay at the property. This 
suited them, for instance when family visited with their young grandchildren. He said when they sold the property theyd have to move somewhere smaller, and this would be more 
acceptable when they were older. 
Ive not been presented with any persuasive reasons why Lloyds should have decided in 
2020 that it would have been in Mr and Mrs Ps best interests to extend the term of the 
mortgage (or offer a new mortgage or plan) rather than repay the mortgage through the sale 
of the property at that time. I dont consider the decision taken by Lloyds to decline Mr and 
Mrs Ps application in 2020 was unfair.
Did Lloyds tell Mr and Mrs P it had declined the application? 
Mr P said Lloyds didnt tell him it had declined the application. I listened to a recording of 
Mr Ps call with Lloyds in December 2020 and Lloyds did say the application was declined. It 
recommended Mr P take independent financial advice and said it would put a hold on the 
account while he did this. Lloyds said it hoped after taking advice Mr P would come back 
with a proposal to repay the debt. 
Mr P wanted to know why Lloyds declined the application. Lloyds said the decision was 
based on the updated financial information provided in mid-2020. It said the unsecured debt 
was too high and Mr P needed to seek advice about this. It was also concerned that Mr and 
Mrs P would still need to sell the property at the end of an extended term, and again 
suggested they seek advice.
Mr P was disappointed. He wanted to know that his backstory (in relation to his unsecured 
debts and debt management plan) had been properly taken into account. And he wanted to 
check that he hadnt missed out due to Lloyds tightening its lending policy during the delay. 
Lloyds re-opened Mr Ps complaint so that its complaints team could look into these 
concerns. Mr P was entitled to raise a complaint and its understandable that he hoped the 
outcome would be in his favour. But I dont think theres any doubt that Lloyds told Mr P in 
December 2020 that his application had been declined. In response to Mr Ps complaint 
Lloyds said this wasnt an error.
What should happen now?
Mr P says at this point an extension would be best, as theyd be older and therefore better 
able to access equity release products at the end of the extension. He hasnt provided any 
evidence that hes looked into or taken advice about this, to establish that theyre likely to 
meet criteria for such products or that this would be the case only after an extension. Mr P 
expects the value of his property to increase. Its possible that the property value wont 
increase and could even fall. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Lloyds to extend 
the time for the mortgage balance to be repaid based only on Mr Ps expectation that theyll 
be better able to access equity release products at that time.
Mr P says he expects Lloyds to offer a solution. While Id expect Lloyds to treat Mr and 
Mrs P fairly, and explore options with them, I dont think its fair to say that its Lloyds 
responsibility to offer a solution. The starting point here is that the contract Mr and Mrs P 
entered into with Lloyds was for the mortgage to be repaid in 2019. It was Mr and Mrs Ps 
responsibility to make plans for this. I appreciate that Mr P hoped Lloyds would offer 
continued lending on the basis of his application, but he was told in July 2020 this was 
unlikely and told in December 2020 that his application was declined. Lloyds suggested Mr 
and Mrs P seek advice about their options. It has allowed them reasonable time to do this.
I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Lloyds to extend the term 
of Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage. I dont think, based on the available evidence, this is clearly in 
their best interests as they havent demonstrated that they will then be in a better position to repay the mortgage balance in the future. 
Lloyds says it would be willing to consider a RIO if Mr and Mrs P make a joint application 
and provide evidence of their retirement income. Mr P says he previously sent a handwritten 
letter setting out the necessary financial information for a RIO without receiving a response. 
If Mr and Mrs P want to look into taking out a RIO with Lloyds, theyll need to apply through 
Lloyds usual application process and provide the information it needs to consider the 
application. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Lloyds to offer a RIO to Mr and Mrs P without 
them going through the application process and providing the necessary information and 
evidence.
Mr and Mrs P could also consider taking independent financial advice about what other 
options might be available to them.
Lloyds accepts that its service was poor. It was too slow when responding to the application 
made by Mr P in mid-2020 and it didnt deal with Mr Ps complaint correctly in December 
2020. While this must have been frustrating, I dont think it changed the outcome. I cant see 
that Lloyds would have made a different decision about the application if it had acted more 
quickly. And Mr P didnt accept the decision when told about it in December 2020, or when 
he received the outcome to his complaint. I dont think this would have been different if hed 
been told his application was declined sooner. Lloyds paid £300 for the inconvenience 
caused by its poor service. In the circumstances, I think this is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Thats because I find the compensation 
paid by Lloyds Bank PLC is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2023 .
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman