DRN-2923053
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) recorded adverse 
information against him on his credit file.
What happened
On 22 February 2020, Mr B was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement 
with VWFS. Mr B paid an advance payment of £5,556.83 and the agreement was for 
£28,488.17 over 49 months; with 48 monthly repayments of £396.26 and a final payment of 
£15,105 if Mr B wanted to keep the car at the end of the agreement.
Mr B contacted VWFS at the end of March 2020, asking them if they could reduce his 
payments because his income had been affected by the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. 
VWFS agreed to this and Mr B paid the reduced payments thatd been agreed. But VWFS 
marked missing payments for May, June and July 2020 on Mr Bs credit file.
In July 2020, Mr B complained to VWFS that they were recording missed payments on his 
credit file. VWFS upheld his complaint and amended his credit file. They also offered to pay 
Mr B £100 as a gesture of goodwill. 
But Mr B said the missing payments having been recorded was affecting his ability to 
transfer his credit card balance onto a preferential rate. And he said he was having to pay an 
additional £70 - £80 interest a month as a result. So he thought VWFS should increase their 
offer to at least £500. And he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that, under the temporary guidelines issued by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) in April 2020, VWFS had an obligation to treat Mr B fairly because his 
income had been affected by Covid-19. And she said this guidance said that firms shouldnt 
report a worsening arrears status on a customers credit file because of this.
The investigator said VWFS had corrected Mr Bs credit file. But she hadnt seen anything to 
show that Mr B tried to apply for a credit card balance transfer while the missed payments 
were recorded; or that Mr B couldnt get a preferential rate on a credit card solely because 
VWFS had previously recorded missed payments on his credit file.
So she thought that VWFS had acted reasonably by correcting Mr Bs credit file and offering 
him £100 as a gesture of goodwill for the inconvenience caused. And she didnt think they 
needed to do anything more.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. He said that he didnt have to pay additional interest 
on his credit card balance until November 2020, when his existing deal expired. He also said 
that once you have had 3 missed payments put through your credit account, your credit 
score collapses REGARDLESS of the fact it was rectified by September [2020]. And he 
thinks that £100 is insufficient compensation for VWFS putting through missed payments 
three months running.
Because Mr B didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr B was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The FCA issued temporary guidance, that came into effect on 27 April 2020, about 
customers who were faced with payment difficulties as a result of Covid-19. And the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) 7.3.4 states that a firm must treat customers in 
default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration.
Ive seen the statement of account, showing that Mr B paid VWFS a reduced payment from 
April to December 2020, resuming full payments in January 2021. The account was then 
settled in March 2021.
Its not disputed that VWFS recorded missed payments for May, June and July 2020. Based 
on his contractual payment, and the reduced amount he was paying, the difference wouldve 
been more than one months payment in May and June 2020, and more than two months 
payments in July 2020. 
But, as VWFS shouldnt have been recording a worsening payment situation when it was as 
a result of Covid-19, they acted reasonably by correcting this on Mr Bs credit file, and by not 
reporting any further missed payments.
I can appreciate the shock when Mr B discovered what had happened, and the distress it 
may have caused him. But, as VWFS corrected this once Mr B had made them aware of the 
issue, Im satisfied that the £100 compensation they offered was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mr B has provided screenshots of his monthly credit score, for the period January to 
September 2020. This shows a drop in his score for May, June and July 2020, which would 
correspond with the missed payments being recorded by VWFS. But Mr Bs credit score 
reverted back to its previous level in September 2020  when the missed payments were 
removed from his credit file. 
Mr B has also provided a copy of his current credit file, which shows there arent any missed 
payments recorded by VWFS. But VWFS have reported the outstanding balance on a 
monthly basis. And, because Mr B was paying a reduced payment, this balance wasnt 
reducing in line with his contractual monthly payment. However, as VWFS have an 
obligation to report accurate figures to the credit reference agencies, I wont be asking them 
to amend these monthly outstanding balance figures.Based on the above information, Im satisfied that VWFS corrected Mr Bs credit file before 
his preferential rate on his credit card ended and he wanted to apply for a new one. Mr B has 
said unfortunately for me, my rating with credit card and loan companies did not recover as 
quickly [as the credit score]. But I havent seen anything to show me that was the case. 
Different credit card providers use different criteria for deciding whether someone can have a 
preferential rate. These are usually based on a number of different factors, which can 
change depending on the business needs of the credit card provider. And, at the time Mr B 
applied for preferential rate in late 2020, his credit score was showing a similar level to what 
it was before he asked VWFS for financial assistance, and his credit file wasnt showing any 
current or historic missed payments with VWFS. 
So I cant agree that Mr B wasnt offered the preferential rate hed applied for solely because 
VWFS had recorded, then corrected, missed payments some months earlier. And I wont be 
asking VWFS to increase their compensation offer. Its now for Mr B to decide whether or not 
to accept the £100.
Ive also seen that Mr B has commented on the difficulties he had getting through to VWFS 
to discuss the situation. The Covid-19 pandemic was an unprecedented situation. 
Government advice was for people to work from home where possible, and VWFS wouldve 
needed to adapt their ways of working. And this came at a time when, for the same reasons, 
VWFS experienced a large increase in customer contacts. 
So, while I appreciate how frustrating this was for Mr B trying to get through to VWFS, I dont 
think VWFS did anything wrong because they were receiving a very high volume of 
customer contact at a time when their normal operations were disrupted due to 
circumstances outside of their control.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman