DRN-2909919
The complaint
Mrs L complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance UK Plc handled and settled a 
claim she made under her home insurance policy for damage to her roof and garden table. 
What happened
Mrs L has a buildings and contents insurance policy with RSA. In March 2021 she stated her 
neighbour had purposely positioning a section of their own guttering in a way that caused 
water to fall onto her roof. She stated that this had caused her roof to leak during periods of 
heavy rain. And she stated there'd been no leak prior to the actions her neighbour had 
taken. Mrs L said this had all resulted in damage to her roof and garden table. So, she made 
a claim under her insurance policy. 
RSA assessed Mrs Ls claim under the storm peril part of her policy. It reviewed weather 
conditions at around the time Mrs L had reported her loss but said there was no evidence of 
a storm occurring. And it instructed a surveyor, who Ill refer to as B in this decision, to 
inspect the damage to Mrs Ls property.
On 29 March 2021, B attended Mrs Ls property. During this visit it said Mrs L informed the 
surveyor that the issues shed reported had been ongoing since September 2020. And it 
thought the damage it had observed had been caused by a natural breakdown of materials 
as a result of general weathering over time. B also noticed moss and debris beneath the 
overlaps in the roof, which it said was allowing rainwater to enter and preventing it from 
flowing away. 
RSA took into account Bs opinion and also considered a video received from Mrs L, which 
showed water ingress through gaps in the roof onto the garden table below during a period 
of rainy weather. It felt, overall, that the damage Mrs L had reported had been caused by 
age related wear and tear. And it said this was excluded under the terms of Mrs Ls policy. 
So, it repudiated her claim on this basis.  
Mrs L complained to RSAs about its decision to decline her claim. But it didnt uphold her 
complaint about the way it had settled her claim. So, Mrs L referred her complaint to our 
service. 
An investigator at our service looked into what had happened but didnt recommend 
upholding Mrs Ls complaint. They thought Mrs L ought to have been aware of the damage 
occurring as shed mentioned it being an ongoing issue since September 2020. And they 
werent persuaded that RSA had made an error in how it had assessed Mrs Ls claim. But 
Mrs L disagreed and asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided by Mrs L and RSA but Ill concentrate my decision on what I think is 
relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive 
failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Its clear that Mrs L feels very strongly that her claim should be settled. Shes described the 
difficulties shes experienced with her neighbour in detail, which Im sorry to hear about. I 
can understand how that all must have caused Mrs L distress and inconvenience - shes 
explained how it all impacted detrimentally on her health. 
I want to assure both Mrs L and RSA that Ive read carefully considered all the information 
theyve sent us. I hope theyll understand if I dont address every comment theyve made in 
this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key to the complaint  namely 
whether RSA acted reasonably in declining this claim. 
Mrs L has raised concerns about how her legal insurance provider dealt with her requests for 
assistance with the problems she experienced with her neighbour. I understand that her 
legal insurance is provided by a different company  not RSA. And I can see our 
investigators already signposted Mrs L on how she can go about pursuing a complaint 
against the other insurer. As this complaint is about RSA, I wont be commenting on any of 
the concerns Mrs L has raised about her legal insurance provider  its outside the scope of 
this complaint.
Theres no dispute that damage occurred to Mrs Ls roof and garden table. However, theres 
a disagreement between Mrs L, RSA and its appointed agent about the cause of the 
damage and the correct outcome of this claim.
Mrs Ls policy provides cover for damage caused by a range of perils that might happen. 
These are specific one-off events and include storm, for example. In order for a claim to be 
successful a policy holder would have to show that the damage theyre claiming for was 
caused by one of the perils listed in the policy.
Here, RSA considered whether or not a storm had caused the damage Mrs L reported. I 
think that this was reasonable because Mrs L was complaining about water ingress through 
her roof, which was happening during periods of heavy rain.
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim for 
storm damage should succeed. Those are:
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
Ive re-assessed Mrs Ls complaint and all the evidence with these three questions in mind. I 
should also clarify that all three questions must be answered affirmatively for this service to 
be able to recommend that a storm complaint is upheld.
In weighing up the first question, I can see that Mrs Ls insurance policy doesnt contain any 
definition of what RSA considers to be a storm. Where the term storm isnt defined, this 
service takes the view that a storm generally involves violent winds, usually accompanied by 
rain, hail or snow.Ive checked the weather reports relevant to Mrs Ls locality for storm conditions in the four 
weeks prior to the date she notified RSA that she wanted to make a claim.  But the wind 
speeds recorded during the period Ive considered dont meet the criteria that our service 
would consider to be a storm. And theres no rainfall recorded that satisfies me there was a 
storm recent to the date of Mrs Ls claim either. It follows that Im not persuaded that I can 
answer question one affirmatively.
As Ive been unable to answer question one affirmatively, I cant fairly conclude that the 
water ingress Mrs L reported to RSA was caused by a one-off identifiable storm event as her 
policy requires. It follows that I cant fairly direct RSA to settle this claim under the storm 
peril.
I can see that RSA also considered Mrs Ls claim under the accidental damage part of her 
policy. But it didnt think the claim could be settled under this part of the policy either as it 
wasnt persuaded the damage had been caused as a single one off accidental event. In 
thinking about whether RSA made an error in assessing the claim for accidental damage Ive 
looked at how accidental damage is defined. 
Mrs Ls policy defines accidental damage as sudden, unexpected and visible damage that 
wasnt caused on purpose. Here, Mrs L told RSA that her neighbour had purposefully 
repositioned their guttering in order to cause damage to her property. This therefore cant be 
said to be damage thats been caused accidentally. And, based on the account Mrs L gave 
RSA, theres nothing to indicate that the water ingress was occurred as a result of accidental 
damage. So, I cant fairly conclude that RSA made an error in declining to settle Mrs Ls 
claim as accidental damage.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, B told RSA it thought the damage Mrs L 
was claiming for occurred due to the natural breakdown of materials as a result of wear and 
tear. I acknowledge that Mrs L refutes Bs opinion. But B is a recognised organisation that 
regularly assesses property damage on behalf of insurers. So, it isnt unreasonable for RSA 
to use Bs expertise in assessing a claim for roof damage here. And I havent seen any 
evidence from Mrs L that contradicts Bs report or its findings. 
Having carefully considered the report RSA obtained from B, Im satisfied that it has shown 
our service reliable evidence to demonstrate that the damage most likely occurred due to the 
pre-existing condition of the roof. Mrs L told RSA and our service that she believes her 
neighbour is responsible for to leak to her roof. But, based on the available evidence, Im 
persuaded that this was more likely caused by age-related wear and tear. I say this because 
the images Ive seen show that the edge of the roof sheets are distorted. This doesnt 
happen as a result of a one-off event as correctly applied roofing should be weather resistant 
 although its condition will deteriorate over time.
Here, I think its reasonable to say theres evidence of weathering to the roof, which is 
something thats occurred gradually. In the images I can see moss and debris beneath the 
overlaps in the roof, which is allowing rainwater to enter and preventing it from flowing away. 
The garden table is showing signs of rust. Its clear to me that the damage here was caused 
gradually by a natural breakdown of materials.
RSAs policy booklet makes it clear that loss or damage caused by age related wear and 
tear or anything that happens gradually is specifically excluded under Mrs Ls insurance 
policy. This is in common with most home insurance policies because theres a difference 
between an insurance contract covering specific perils and a maintenance contract where a 
consumer will have jobs covered annually by a builder. Insurers are keen for these contracts 
not to be confused. There are wear and tear exemptions in their policies, so consumers dont 
use them for maintenance purposes.I think RSA has shown our service reliable evidence to demonstrate that the damage Mrs L 
reported was caused gradually. Ive therefore thought about whether Mrs L ought to have 
noticed the damage to her property before she reported it to RSA. 
Mrs L has explained why her condition means she wouldnt have been able to notice the 
changes to the roof. Ive taken into account what Mrs L has told our investigator about her 
reasons for not reporting the damage to RSA sooner. But the evidence Ive seen persuades 
me that she was aware of the water ingress in September 2020  this was six months before 
she reported her claim to RSA. Ive heard a recording of Bs visit to Mrs Ls property during 
which confirmed to Bs surveyor that the problem had got worse since September 2020 
when it first started.
Ive considered everything Mrs L has said. But I think Mrs L had opportunities between 
September 2020 and March 2021 to be aware of the damage occurring gradually. And I also 
think she had opportunities to take reasonable action to deal with the damage within that 
period. 
I havent seen any evidence that shows Mrs L took action after becoming aware of the 
problem with her roof in September 2020. She could have, for example, informed RSA 
sooner of what was happening. Alternatively, she could have taken steps to arrange for an 
emergency repair to be undertaken. Im therefore not satisfied that she took steps to mitigate 
her loss.
I know Mrs L will be disappointed with this decision  she feels very strongly about the 
issues raised in this complaint. And I appreciate the reasons why she brought her complaint 
to our service. But for the reasons outlined, Im not persuaded RSA acted unfairly in how it 
dealt with this claim. So, I wont be asking it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2021.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman