DRN-3207012
Complaint
Mr B is unhappy with what National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has agreed to do to 
put things right after he complained about his overdraft interest rate increasing.
Background
When Mr B referred his complaint to us, NatWest agreed to refund all the interest, fees and 
charges it added from June 2018. One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Bs complaint and 
she thought that what NatWest had agreed to do to put things right was fair and reasonable 
in all of the circumstances of the case. Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what NatWest has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr B is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. 
Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
NatWest has agreed that it ought to have realised that it was unfair to start charging Mr B a 
higher interest rate on his overdraft in June 2018. And it has agreed to refund all the interest, 
fees and charges added it to Mr Bs overdraft from then in order to put things right. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. However, thats not possible in cases where funds that shouldnt have been advanced 
were advanced because typically those funds will have already been spent. 
So we have to look at a way of asking a business to put things right in a fair and reasonable 
way. And where a business provided, or continued to allow a consumer to use, a credit 
facility unfairly, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd be in now if 
they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit.
This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those 
interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. Thats what NatWest 
has agreed to do here, so it has agreed to do what Id normally expect a firm to do in these 
circumstances.
In this case, Mr B has been left with an outstanding balance even though the credits hes 
made to his account have been factored in and hes been refunded all of the interest, fees 
and charges applied. So while Mr B has been left with an outstanding balance to repay and 
he might be unhappy with this, NatWest has done what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mr B believes that NatWest should do more. As I understand it, Mr B believes he should be 
paid the amount of the refund directly. Ive carefully thought about what Mr B has said. But 
all the interest, fees and charges NatWest shouldnt have added have been removed from 
the overdraft. So what Mr B is left with to repay are the funds which he used and benefitted 
from and crucially I dont agree that the interest, fees and charges have left him with a debt 
that he wouldnt otherwise have been left with. 
Equally, Mr Bs initial complaint was he shouldnt have been charged the extra interest after 
the changes to the interest rate. NatWest has done only done this but it has gone further and 
has agreed to refund all of the charges added from June 2018 onwards. In these 
circumstances, and bearing in mind Mr B spent the funds, I think its perfectly fair and 
reasonable to expect Mr B to repay the outstanding balance. And I dont think that Mr B 
perhaps being unhappy at having a balance to repay is in itself a compelling reason for me 
to depart from our usual approach here. 
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what NatWest has already done to put things 
right for Mr B  reworking his account so that all the interest, fees and charges added since 
July 2018 are removed  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mr B to decide whether he 
wishes to accept NatWests offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what National Westminster Bank Plc has 
already agreed to do to put things right for Mr B is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman