DRN-2942861
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has rejected their claim
for accidental damage to their underground pipe. 
What happened
In May 2019 Mr and Mrs W called out a drainage compony (J) due to a blockage in their
underground pipe. J carried out a CCTV survey and repairs which consisted of relining the
pipe. Mr W was advised by J to make a claim and he duly did so to Lloyds in June 2019. He
advised Lloyds that he was told by J that the joints had displaced, which allowed roots to get
in, which led to a blockage in the pipes. Lloyds said clearing a blockage wasnt covered
under the terms of the policy. It further said that the damage was gradual and due to wear
and tear which were excluded under the policy terms.
Mr W sent the invoice and a letter from J and subsequently corresponded with Lloyds about
accidental damage and pointed out there was cover for clearing a blockage. Lloyds
explained that was only where the pipe had to be broken into to clear the blockage. Mr W
sent in a copy of the CCTV survey on a memory stick, but Lloyds couldnt read it due to its
security protocols. It reviewed Mr Ws complaint and reiterated that it couldnt cover the
claim. It said it had delayed in returning Mr Ws memory stick and paid him £25
compensation.
On referral to this service our investigator said that Lloyds had acted reasonably. Mr W didnt
agree and forwarded to us the video of the CCTV survey which we forwarded to Lloyds. It
agreed to look at that but not as a part of this complaint. 
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought that it was most likely that the 
damage to their underground pipe (displaced joints and cracks) was due to accidental 
damage, and that Lloyds should pay the claim.
Mr and Mrs W accepted my provisional decision. Lloyds has made no comment in response.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
Mr and Mrs W have cover under their policy for accidental damage to services. Accidental
damage is defined in the policy as:
An accident that causes physical damage, which is caused suddenly by an outside force
and is not expected and not deliberate.
Blockage of the pipes in itself isnt physical damage. But I refer to Js letter which says it
found several cracks and displaced joints which were allowing roots to enter the line. My
view is that cracks are physical damage and, depending on the cause displaced joints could
also be. Lloyds has based its decision on the fact that the policy doesnt cover wear and tear
or damage that has happened over time, which is what happened with the tree roots. I think
that decision is flawed  its not possible to say exactly what caused the cracks and the
displaced joints but I think the evidence is sufficient to say that they probably come within the
definition of accidental damage. As for the growth of the tree roots, although this does
happen over time, our approach is that the blockage itself occurs suddenly when the roots
have ingressed sufficiently to actually block the pipe. Whilst clearing a blockage in itself may
not be covered it should nevertheless be done as part of the effective repair of the pipe.
Mr W sent through to Lloyds the CCTV survey on a memory stick. Because of its security
protocols Lloyds was unable to open the footage. Having seen it myself I think it needs an
experts review. But Lloyds could have assisted Mr W with sending through the footage in a
format it could review, e.g. transferring it to a disc or creating a file to attach to an email. So
as the evidence of that survey was sent through to Lloyds and Mr W isnt at fault for it being
unable to open it, I dont think that footage should be part of a new complaint.
My view is that Mr and Mrs W have shown to Lloyds that its most likely that the damage to
their underground pipe (displaced joints and cracks) was due to accidental damage. The
cost to them for carrying out the necessary repairs is £1,974. I think Lloyds should pay that
sum to settle the claim, with simple interest at 8% per year from the date Mr and Mrs W paid
that.
As regards the handling of the claim, I dont think that Lloyds failed to respond to letters from
Mr and Mrs W.
I do think Lloyds should have returned the memory stick earlier, and should have advised
Mr W about other possible methods of sending the CCTV footage to it. I also think it should
have considered whether the cracks and displacement of the pipes were accidental damage
rather than speculate that they could have happened over a long period. I think Lloyds
should pay Mr and Mrs W £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. It has already
paid £25 so it needs to pay a further £175. 
As neither party have made any further comments, I remain persuaded by my provisional 
findings. Those findings are now final and form part of this final decision. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to pay to 
Mr and Mrs W:
£1,974 in settlement of their claim. It should add 8% per year simple interest* to this from
the date Mr and Mrs W paid it until the date it reimburses them.
A further £175 compensation.
*Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct
tax from any interest paid. Should Mr and Mrs W request it, Lloyds Bank General Insurance
Limited should provide them with a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off so
that, if appropriate, they can reclaim it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2021. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman