DRN-2401127
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with what Aviva Insurance Limited did after he made a claim on his legal 
expenses insurance policy. 
All references to Aviva include its agents. 
What happened
Mr Ms policy with Aviva started in July 2018. In May 2020 he got in touch with Aviva in 
relation to issues he was having at work which he was pursuing through the Employment 
Tribunal (ET) process. He wanted his legal expenses policy to assist with this. Aviva turned 
down the claim because it said the first event in the series Mr M was claiming for took place 
prior to the policy start date. 
Mr M disputed that and made a complaint about the decision to turn down the claim. Aviva 
asked for further information to help investigate the complaint on 21 August which Mr M 
provided a few days later. A final response was issued at the start of October. In that Aviva 
accepted the claim had been wrongly declined and offered to pay Mr M £300 in recognition 
of the distress and inconvenience that had caused him. 
As the ET hearing date was approaching it also agreed to fund a direct access barrister to 
represent Mr M at the hearing. I understand his claim was successful in part and he was 
awarded around £14,000 in total by the tribunal. 
Our investigator thought the compensation Aviva had offered for the impact on Mr M of 
wrongly declining the claim was fair. Mr M didnt agree. He said because he wasnt 
represented as he should have been he had to do preparatory work for the tribunal himself. 
And he argued this impacted the outcome of his case. So I need to reach a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I dont think its in dispute Mr Ms claim was wrongly turned down by Aviva. Its accepted 
there wasnt enough evidence to say the incident which took place before the policy start 
date was linked to the issues which took place after that. And once it asked Mr M further 
questions about this he was quickly able to provide the information that led it to change its 
decision. So I think its reasonable to say that if Aviva had explored that from the outset the 
claim would have been accepted relatively soon after it was first made at the end of May 
2020. 
In fact Aviva didnt confirm cover was in place until the start of October 2020; around four 
months later. The panel solicitors Aviva first approached werent then able to act because of 
the proximity of the ET hearing date. But Mr M was able to obtain cover in time through an 
approach to a direct access barrister which Aviva agreed to fund. So the delay by Aviva in 
agreeing cover didnt mean he was unrepresented at his ET hearing. 
And I dont think the evidence suggests that if earlier representation had been in place the 
outcome of the hearing would have been any different. Ive read a report of the hearing from 
Mr Ms barrister in which he says Mr M was happy with the way the case had been 
presented and delighted and relieved with the outcome. And while the report does identify 
some issues with the witness statement Mr M provided it doesnt suggest that impacted the 
outcome; it says at the hearing Mr M was an impressive witness.
However, I accept Mr M has been inconvenienced because cover wasnt in place earlier. I 
dont think all of the work hes referred to doing would have been avoided if it had been; for 
example hes talked about preparing a witness statement which I think it likely hed always 
have needed to do. But I think having the assistance of a solicitor would likely have been 
useful to him with this and more generally during this time. However, Im mindful of the fact 
that taking these proceeding was in itself likely to have been a difficult experience for 
Mr M regardless of any failing by Aviva. Overall, and on balance, I think the £300 Aviva has 
already offered does enough to put things right here.    
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint because I think Aviva Insurance Limited has 
already done enough to put things right. It will need to pay Mr M £300 if it hasnt already 
done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman