DRN-3846384
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs K complain about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA)s 
decision not to offer settlement for their resin driveway. They want AA to increase the offer of 
settlement to allow them to have their driveway replaced.
What happened
Mrs K and Mr K held home insurance with AA. Their buildings insurance provided cover for 
their buildings, including paths and driveway, against a range of perils including smoke 
damage.
In Summer 2021, a commercial building near to Mrs K and Mr Ks home was the subject of a 
fire. This caused noxious smoke to envelope their home and caused damage.
They submitted a claim to AA.
AA sent a surveyor to their home. The surveyor noted that there were sooty deposits on the 
walls and driveway, and that the paintwork on the gates had been corroded.
AA prepared a schedule of works and contacted Mr K and Mrs K with an offer of settlement.
This was based on the cost it would have been for AA to carry out repair and cleaning works 
to the brickwork and gates. AAs offer of settlement was for around £1800.00.
Mr K and Mrs K submitted their own quotes for the work. These detailed that the costs for 
repairs to the building structures would be £4380 including VAT, and the cost to replace the 
driveway was £4500.00.
AA has declined to offer cover for the driveway, as it contends that there is insufficient 
evidence that the driveway is damaged.
Mr K and Mrs K complained to AA. AA maintained its decision.
Mr K and Mrs K contacted us.
Our investigator looked into this matter and concluded that the quote the consumer had 
obtained matched the work which AA had identified. She therefore thought that AA should 
cover the costs detailed in the quote Mr K and Mrs K had obtained.
In respect of whether the driveway was included or not, the investigator considered that she 
had not seen sufficient evidence of damage, but accepted that the surveyor had noted soot 
damage and given Mr K and Mrs K the impression that it would be covered. She therefore 
recommended that AA pay to Mr K and Mrs K £250.00 to reflect their disappointment.
Neither party accepted that view, so the complaint was passed for an ombudsman decision.
I previously set out a provisional decision in respect of this complaint. In that decision I 
explained that I was satisfied that there were sooty deposits left on the driveway and that 
these should be included within the claim. I did, however, consider that it was fair to allow AA 
an attempt at cleaning the driveway first, and only if that did not work, or if the cleaning 
damaged the driveway, should replacement be required. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment. 
Mr K and Mrs K have responded indicating they think it immoral to allow AA to carry out 
cleaning in a way which is advised against by the driveway manufacturer, but that if AA 
indemnifies them for any damage caused through cleaning then they agree. They also agree 
to AA carrying out their other repairs, on the same basis. 
AA has responded, disputing that my provisional decision amounts to an upheld decision. 
AA says that the dispute is only about whether the replacement of the driveway is included in 
the works to be done or settled. It says that it is happy to clean the driveway or include 
cleaning in the cash settlement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To respond first to AAs comments, I agree that this complaint centred on whether the 
driveway replacement was to be included in the scope of works or cash settlement.
In the scope of works put forward to Mr K and Mrs K it was acknowledged that there were 
sooty deposits, but no cleaning or replacement of the driveway were included in the works. 
I have decided that the driveway ought to be included in the works and that the driveway 
should be indemnified by AA, so that is why the complaint is upheld in favour of Mr K and 
Mrs K. I have, however said that in the first instance it is reasonable for AA to attempt to 
clean the driveway rather than replace. If that cleaning process does not work, or if it causes 
damage to the driveway, then AA would be expected to indemnify Mr K and Mrs K by 
replacement. 
For this reason, it would not be appropriate for the cleaning of the driveway to be cash 
settled as AA must retain control over the cleaning attempt.
In response to Mr K and Mrs K, I understand that they are anxious about cleaning being 
attempted against the manufacturers advice, but I maintain that it is fair for AA to be allowed 
to try cleaning, in case cleaning may be effective and replacement can be avoided. 
Any works undertaken by AA or its agents should be of a reasonable standard and if they 
are not, then Mr K and Mrs K would be able to complain to AA and then (if necessary) to us, 
about any defective works. 
If AA carries out any works, then it should provide guarantees and warranties for materials 
and workmanship to Mr K and Mrs K. 
As no further arguments about the substantive decision have been received, I remain of the 
view set out in my provisional decision and I uphold Mr K and Mrs Ks complaint.  Putting things right
In order to put matters right, I direct AA to carry out cleaning of the driveway of Mr K and Mrs 
Ks home. If the cleaning is not successful, or if it causes damage to the driveway, then AA 
must indemnify Mr K and Mrs K for this. 
AA should also cash settle the remaining parts of the claim, in line with the approach 
previously advised (i.e. depending on which party requests settlement by cash). 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr K and Mrs Ks 
complaint and direct AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to:
Carry out cleaning of the driveway of Mr K and Mrs Ks property; and
Cash settle the remainder of the claim in line with the approach set out previously. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman