DRN-4121474
The complaint
Mrs J and Mr M complain that Assured Futures Limited mis-sold them a personal private 
medical policy.
As Mrs J brought the complaint to us, Ive referred mainly to her.
What happened
In October 2020, Mrs J took out a private medical insurance policy, which was sold by 
Assured Futures. The policy was underwritten by an insurer Ill call E.
Subsequently, ahead of renewal in October 2021, Mrs J spoke with Assured Futures to 
discuss her cover options. During the calls, the adviser recommended that Mrs J should 
switch her policy with E to a new policy with an insurer Ill call A. Mrs J took out Expert 
Select cover. This meant that at the point of claim, A would provide Mrs J with a list of 
approved specialists within a 25-mile radius, who she could then choose from. Mrs J took up 
Assured Futures recommendation and began the switch policy with A.
At renewal in October 2022, Mrs J asked A if she could upgrade her hospital list. However, A 
didnt agree to Mrs Js request, as it said shed made a claim during the first year of the 
policy. A suggested to Mrs J that she should complain to Assured Futures about the way it 
had sold the policy.
So Mrs J complained to Assured Futures. She said that the adviser hadnt told her that she 
wouldnt be able to upgrade the policy if she made a claim during the first policy year. And 
she said that not being able to see a specialist of her choice had adversely impacted her. 
This meant she had to travel to see specialists who were too far from her home. 
Assured Futures didnt agree that it had mis-sold the policy to Mrs J and therefore, she 
asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Js complaint should be upheld.  She felt Assured Futures 
had given Mrs J clear information about the cover and she didnt think the policy had been 
mis-sold.
Mrs J disagreed. She queried whether the investigator had listened to all of the sales calls 
shed had with Assured Futures  and in particular, a call where Mrs J had told the adviser 
shed need to revert to them about which hospital list to opt for. She reiterated that the 
complaint was about the mis-sale of the policy by Assured Futures.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs J and Mr M, I dont think Assured 
Futures mis-sold this policy to them and Ill explain why.
Its common ground that Assured Futures advised Mrs J to switch her policy from E to the 
new policy with A. That means it needed to ensure the policy was suitable for Mrs J. And it 
also needed to give Mrs J enough clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy 
so she could decide if it was right for her.
Ive listened to the calls which took place between Mrs J and Assured Futures during 
September and October 2021, ahead of the switch taking place. Assured Futures carried out 
a fact-find to establish Mrs Js demands and needs, as Id expect it to do. It seems to me 
that policy price was an important factor to Mrs J and the switch was initially recommended 
due to As policy being priced lower than Es. Assured Futures discussed Mrs Js (and Mr 
Ms) existing medical conditions and queried whether thered been any changes since the 
previous policy year. Given Mrs Js existing moratorium and medical history, I think it was 
reasonable and appropriate for Assured Futures to recommend a switch policy to her.
During the calls, the different hospital list options were discussed in some depth. Its clear 
Mrs J was considering whether to opt for the Key Hospital or Expert Select list. In my view, 
the adviser clearly explained how both options would work and the differences between 
them. I think Mrs J appeared to understand the advisers explanations and that if she chose 
the Expert Select; A would provide her with a choice of around three-four specialists within a 
25-mile radius. Mrs J and the adviser talked about Mrs J potentially visiting London-based 
hospitals off-list and the opportunity for Mrs J to self-fund off-list hospital visits. The adviser 
set out the list of local hospitals which were covered under the Expert Selection option  
which included hospitals in a town Mrs J had expressed a preference for. And the adviser 
also made it clear that they couldnt guarantee that Mrs J would be able to use the hospitals 
she wanted. Mrs J indicated that she was happy with the cheaper premium policy  the 
Expert Select option.
I appreciate that the adviser didnt explicitly tell Mrs J that she wouldnt be able to upgrade 
the policy if she made a claim within the first year. Ive considered this carefully. Its 
important I make it clear that this wasnt Assured Futures decision  it was As decision not 
to allow Mrs J to upgrade the policy. And the policy terms made it clear that if a policyholder 
wishes to upgrade their policy, A will review certain considerations, including claims, when 
deciding whether or not to agree the upgrade. 
At the point of sale, the adviser did check with Mrs J whether she had any specialist 
appointments planned. Mrs J said she didnt. So I dont think the adviser ought reasonably to 
have foreseen that Mrs J would make a claim(s) during the first year or wish to upgrade the 
policy at renewal. Based on the information the adviser had available at the time of sale, I 
think their recommendation was reasonable and in line with Mrs Js identified wishes and 
needs.
Assured Futures also had an obligation to send Mrs J information about the policy in good 
time after the sale. Based on what Ive seen, it seems it did. It appears that Mrs J was 
provided with a policy certificate setting out her cover and a copy of As policy terms and 
conditions. So I think Assured Futures met this obligation.
Overall, I sympathise with Mrs Js position, because I appreciate she isnt able to access 
care at the hospitals she might wish to under her existing policy with A. But Im not 
persuaded that the adviser made an unsuitable recommendation based on Mrs Js demands 
and needs. And Im satisfied that Assured Futures gave Mrs J enough clear, fair and not 
misleading information about the policy to allow her to decide whether it was right for her. So 
it follows that I dont find that Assured Futures mis-sold this policy to Mrs J and Mr M, or that 
it needs to take any action.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman