DRN-3875090
The complaint
This complaint is about an attempt Mr and Mrs H made to apply for a mortgage with 
Barclays Bank UK PLC. Mr and Mrs H were turned down for policy reasons, but believe they 
should have been told sooner than they were, and that Barclays then took too long to 
address their complaint. They say the delay left them having to apply elsewhere for a 
mortgage that is more expensive, because interest rates went up in the interim. Barclays has 
offered redress, but Mr and Mrs H say its not enough as it doesnt cover their higher future 
mortgage costs.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr and Mrs H and Barclays. Im 
also aware that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared 
with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr and Mrs H being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of what led to the 
complaint, rounding the figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because 
I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
In June 2022, Mr and Mrs H found a property they wanted to buy, and contacted Barclays to 
enquire about the feasibility of getting a mortgage. Encouraged by what they were told in the 
first phone call, they made an offer to buy the new property.  Over the next few days, they 
had two more, lengthy, phone conversations with Barclays. During the third call, Barclays 
told them the application wouldnt meet its criteria on acceptable incomes sources. 
Mr and Mrs H complained immediately, but Barclays took until September 2022 to issue its 
final response. Barclays didnt uphold the underlying complaint, but accepted it had taken 
longer than it should to deal with it. It offered compensation of £450, £150 of which was for 
the delay in answering the complaint. The other £300 was for poor service during the 
June 2022 phone calls.
When the case came to us, our investigator thought Barclays had made a fair offer to 
resolve the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us. 
£150 of Barclayss settlement offer was for how long it took to answer the complaint. When a 
complaint (or, as here, part of a complaint) is solely about how the complaint was handled, 
our rules dont allow me to look into that. So Ive focussed on the events that caused the 
complaint to arise in the first place.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, what follows are my conclusions and the reasons for them.
This is not a complaint where I have to decide fault; Barclays has accepted it made mistakes 
and has offered redress to put things right. What I have to decide, is whether Barclayss offer 
is fair, or if it needs to do more. 
Whilst disappointed with the decision not to lend, Mr and Mrs H said they accept that is up to 
Barclays discretion, and I agree. The lending decision was a fair reflection of Barclays 
lending policy. My role isnt to say what that policy should be, but to ensure it has been 
applied fairly and consistently, and Im satisfied it was. Mr Hs income source isnt one that 
Barclays accepts, and thats a decision it was entitled to make.
Rather, its the time taken to tell Mr and Mrs H that is at the heart of this complaint. Barclays 
has offered compensation of £300 for Mr and Mrs Hs time, trouble and upset. The sticking 
point is over Mr and Mrs Hs claim for reimbursement of future losses from having to take a 
mortgage on a higher interest rate than would have been available when they first 
approached Barclays; thats a consequence of the general rise in interest rates. 
Mr and Mrs H say the claim is in the region of £10,000, but theyve not corroborated this. 
Also, as they have said themselves, the gap between the first and third conversations was 
only about five days. I cant in all fairness say that was an unreasonable delay. Lastly, once 
Barclays did tell them it wouldnt lend, Mr and Mrs H will have known they had to make a 
choice between withdrawing their offer to buy the new home or looking elsewhere for a 
mortgage to fund the purchase. 
Mr and Mrs H opted for the latter, which was of course their prerogative, but it was also their 
choice, and they must accept the consequences of that choice. I can understand why they 
made the choice they did; theyve described the property as their dream home and I 
recognise its hard to step back from something one has set ones heart on. But it seems to 
me that the commitment Mr and Mrs H made as a result of the initial conversation with 
Barclays was emotional rather than financial, and their expectations were corrected within a 
few days. In all the circumstances, Barclays compensation offer is fair. If no offer had been 
made, I wouldnt have awarded more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr and Mrs H £450 in full and 
final settlement of this complaint. I make no other order or award.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 June 2023. Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman