DRN-1613779
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) hasnt treated him fairly during 
a period of vulnerability and financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mr S has a mortgage with Halifax. He fell into arrears in 2017. And in March 2019 Halifax 
obtained a suspended possession order. Mr S said that Halifaxs actions have had a 
detrimental impact on his mental health as he was worried he and his family would be made 
homeless. He said he had kept up the repayment arrangements to the mortgage, which has 
led to not being able to pay other bills and has caused him more financial difficulty. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr S didnt accept what the investigator said. He made a number of points, including:
Halifaxs records have limited reference to any positive steps it took to assist him.
Halifax was directing his account towards legal action and didnt take into account 
regular communication from him.
Halifax refused to adjourn the court proceedings until he had received his subject access 
request. He doesnt think he was given a fair opportunity to defend himself. His mental 
health has been damaged by the unsympathetic stance taken by Halifax.
His request to capitalise the arrears hadnt been refused as the investigator said. Halifax 
had agreed to do so if he made six consecutive payments. 
Mr S did not know that if payments were not made on or about the same day each month 
that it would be considered inconsistent and a reason to decline capitalisation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules say that Halifax must treat borrowers who are in arrears fairly. Usually 
that will mean finding out information about a borrowers circumstances and then exploring 
whether there are any concessions it can offer to help get the mortgage back on track. But it 
isnt obliged to step in and offer concessions without first understanding the borrowers 
circumstances. Legal action should be a last resort.
I can see that Mr S was in contact with Halifax once the mortgage fell into arrears. There 
was some degree of uncertainty about Mr Ss circumstances. Halifax gave Mr S time to get 
things back on track. But despite several requests Mr S didnt give Halifax full details of his 
income and expenditure. Without that information Halifax couldnt know if the mortgage was 
sustainable or if there was an appropriate concession that it could offer Mr S. So I dont 
consider it treated Mr S unfairly when he encountered financial difficulty.
I accept Mr S was making regular payments to the mortgage from August 2017. But the 
payments were less than the contractual amount. While it might be reasonable for Halifax to 
sometimes accept reduced payments for a time  that would usually require an assessment 
income and expenditure, so it could assess whether the payments were affordable after 
taking into account other essential expenditure. So I dont consider those payments would 
mean Halifax was wrong to take the action it did.
Halifax instructed solicitors to begin possession proceedings in December 2018. At that point 
the mortgage had been in arrears for almost two years  and the arrears were going up. Mr 
S hadnt provided details of his income and expenditure. And based on the information that 
Halifax did have there was nothing to suggest that there was any likelihood that the arrears 
could be cleared in a sustainable way. In the circumstances here, I consider it was 
reasonable for Halifax to begin legal action when it did. 
Im afraid the evidence we have doesnt support that Halifaxs plan was always to take Mr S 
to court. While it does tell Mr S that was an option, it was reasonable for it do so because 
legal action is a legitimate course of action available to mortgage lenders. And Ive already 
found it was reasonable for Halifax to take the action it did.
I understand why Mr S was unhappy that Halifax refused to adjourn the court hearing until 
he received his subject access request. But it was open to Mr S to put that to the court and 
for it to decide if an adjournment was necessary. In any case, it would be for the court to 
decide if that information would have made any difference to its decision to grant Halifax a 
suspended possession order. I dont have the power to interfere in or overturn the courts 
decision.
Halifax has paid Mr S a total of £325 for the delay in providing the subject access request. I 
think this is fair. While I note the points that Mr S has made about the impact on him  a 
large part of the stress and anxiety he says he was feeling is likely to have been due to the 
arrears and court action. I accept the delay in receiving the subject access request will have 
added to that  and in particular that it might have made a difference to the outcome and Mr 
Ss perception of how he was treated. But after reviewing everything, I think £325 is a fair 
amount to reflect the upset this issue caused.
Following the court order, I can see that Mr S often made manual payments. Halifaxs notes 
show that it asked him whether making the payment would cause him financial difficulty  
and Mr S said the payments were affordable. So Halifax had no reason to think that the 
payments were causing him financial difficulty. I note it also offered to go through Mr Ss 
income and expenditure  but again he refused to do so.
Halifax offered to capitalise Mr Ss arrears providing he made six payments in full and on 
time. I can see why this would be attractive for Mr S  and if Halifax is happy with that 
arrangement I am not going to stop it going ahead. I note though that the relevant rules say 
that capitalisation should be considered where other concessions arent appropriate as it can 
be a more expensive options for borrowers.
When Mr S took out his mortgage with Halifax he agreed to make payments on a certain day 
each month. So if the payment is made after that date it is reasonable for Halifax to treat it 
as being late and to take that into account in the decisions it makes, including whether to 
capitalise arrears or not.Bank of Scotland has an ongoing obligation to treat Mr S fairly. But it is a two-way street. Mr 
S would need to provide all of the information Halifax asks for. Halifax would then need to 
review Mr Ss individual circumstances and tailor its assistance to those circumstances if 
appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that the amount Bank of Scotland Plc has paid Mr S is a fair way to 
resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman