DRN-1880043
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold their pet insurance policy. My 
references to Allianz include its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Bs dog has been insured with a lifetime cover policy since 2009 which has 
renewed each year. Allianz is the insurer. The policy is in Mrs Bs name but she authorised 
for Mr B to be on account and hes communicated with Allianz most of the time about the 
policy. Mr B is Mrs Bs representative in this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B complain that Allianz didnt tell them that if they made a claim once their dog 
became 10 years old they would have to pay 20% of the total claim in addition to the usual 
excess. They say if Allianz had told them before the policy renewed on 1 February 2019 they 
would have sought alternative cover.
Mr and Mrs B say each year they called Allianz to discuss the policy terms but in 2019 
although Allianz told them about all the other key policy terms it didnt say about the 
additional 20% excess. They say Allianz didnt tell them until the end of March 2019 when 
Mrs B phoned about making a claim. Their dog needed vet treatment resulting in them 
having to pay an excess of over £1,000. Mr and Mrs B also say they were not sent policy 
documents until after they complained despite asking for them before which contributed to 
their lack of information.
Allianz didnt accept the policy had been mis-sold. It sent us the original policy and said the 
renewal policy documents had been sent in January 2019 to the email address it had on 
record and again on 13 February 2019 when Mr B told it he hadnt received the documents. 
The information about the additional excess was clear in the policy documents. Allianz told 
Mr B it could have responded to his complaint sooner and offered Mr and Mrs B £75 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Mr and Mrs B complained to us. They want Allianz to pay the claim without imposing the 
additional excess and more compensation for their stress at a difficult time when their dog 
had been very unwell. They also want us to make recommendations about how Allianz 
should give the information to consumers to prevent the same happening to others. 
Our investigator said Allianz had acted fairly and reasonably.
Mr and Mrs B disagree and want an ombudsmans decision.
Before I made a decision I asked Allianz for the call recordings between it and Mr and Mrs B 
around the time of the 2019 policy renewal which it provided. Ive listened to the calls and Ill 
refer to the calls content in my findings below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B have told us that Allianzs decision has caused them financial hardship, which 
Im sorry to hear. But I have to decide whether Allianz acted fairly and reasonably and I think 
it did. 
I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive read the all the points Mr and Mrs Bs made. Im not going to comment on each point 
and Ill focus on the main issues.
The policy was sold to Mrs B on a non-advised basis in 2009, which means Allianz didnt 
make any recommendations about whether the policy was suitable for her needs. But Allianz 
needed to provide enough information for her to make an informed decision about whether 
she wanted to take out the policy. Many pet insurance policies have an additional excess or 
co-payment for the policyholder to pay once a pet reaches a certain age. Although its not 
unusual I still think its a significant term which an insurer needs to highlight to be able to 
fairly rely on.
The significant exclusion and limitation key facts section of the 2009 policy highlighted that 
once a pet is 10 years old or over (or 7 years old or over for select breeds and rabbits) Mrs B 
would have to pay a percentage of all treatment costs in an addition to the fixed excess. So 
the term was made clear at the time of the sale of the policy.
Mr and Mrs B say they thought they were taking out a new policy each year. But from the 
renewal letters and documents sent to Mrs B over the years its clear that the policy is being 
renewed. And in the call Mr B made to Allianz before the 2019 renewal he told Allianz that 
he had an email saying the policy was due for renewal. I think its more likely than not that 
Mr and Mrs B were aware the policy was being renewed.
Mr and Mrs B say a consumer cant be expected to remember policy information so far back 
and I agree. But importantly the relevant information is in all the updated policy documents 
sent to Mrs B and each year the certificate of insurance sent with the renewal documents 
details the relevant excess payable for that year.
The 2018 certificate of insurance which Allianz posted to Mrs B in 2018 also gave additional 
information. Under the section titled Policy excess it said:
In 12 months timeas (dogs name) is getting older we want to give you advance 
notice of a change that will apply from your next renewal in February 2019. At that 
time, the way we apply your excess for (dogs name) will change. In addition to the 
fixed amount you pay, you will also pay a percentage of all claims submitted for 
veterinary treatment and complementary treatment. Typically this percentage is 
20 percent but we will confirm the amount before it is implemented at next years 
renewal.
That information highlighted the change of excess for the following policy year and gave Mr 
and Mrs B plenty of notice about the change.
Mr and Mrs B now say they didnt receive the 2018 policy document. But Allianz sent the 
documents to the correct address and isnt responsible if the post failed to be delivered. Ive 
not seen any evidence to support that Mr and/or Mrs B contacted Allianz in 2018 to say they 
hadnt received the policy documents. 
Allianz sent the 2019 renewal documents in January 2019 to the email address Allianz had for Mr and Mrs B on its records. Its one of the email addresses through which Mr B later 
corresponded with Allianz.
The 2019 certificate of insurance says under the heading Your excesses:
Veterinary Fees - you will pay the first £125 of veterinary treatment for each 
unrelated illness or injury. Once this amount has been deducted you will then pay 
20% of all treatment costs on all claims submitted.
Allianzs system shows it sent the documents on 4 January 2019 (before the policy renewed) 
and a duplicate on 13 February 2019 (before the claim). 
Mr and Mrs B have told us they didnt get those emails and say the calls Mr B had with 
Allianz around the time of the 2019 policy renewal mean it cant fairly rely on information in 
those emails.
In Mr Bs call to Allianz on 14 January 2019 he told Allianz hed had an email that the policy 
was due for renewal and the policy documents were available on-line but he couldnt go on-
line to view the documents. The discussion was only about whether Allianz would give a 
premium  discount. Mr B said he wanted time to think about the discount and he asked for 
new documents in the post to confirm the new price. Allianzs representative said it could 
only send once hed applied the discount so he would make a note on the policy for when 
Mr B called back say if they wanted to accept the discount or go elsewhere. 
On 31 January 2019 Mr B called Allianz and said the policy was due to renew the next day 
and he wanted to accept the discount on the premium. Allianz representative said the 
discount hadnt already been applied and confirmed the new premium.
On 12 February 2019 Mr B called Allianz to say the policy renewed but he didnt have any 
policy documents and the first premium had gone out at a higher cost than agreed. Allianzs 
representative looked into the premium issue. Allianzs representative said it had already 
sent out the policy documents to the email address on its file but it would resend. Mr B said it 
could resend the information on that email address. Allianzs system records show it resent 
the policy documents to the email address on 13 February 2019.
Allianz has no record that Mr B phoned thereafter. So Allianz wouldnt have been aware that 
Mr and Mrs B didnt have the policy documents after it resent the documents. The next call is 
from Mrs B about the claim about 7 weeks later.
None of Allianzs representatives in those calls went through the key policy terms with Mr B, 
as he suggested. They didnt tell him about the key policy terms omitting the additional 
excess information. I wouldnt expect Allianz to go through the key terms in those calls. The 
calls werent about the sale of the policy but about the practicalities of the policy renewal. 
Mr B couldnt reasonably consider that they were policy sale calls.
Im satisfied that Allianz correctly sent policy documents to Mr and Mrs B which highlighted 
that the additional 20% excess would be charged if a claim was made once their dog was 
10 years old. Allianz isnt responsible for the non-delivery of post or email if it sent the 
information to the correct addresses, and the evidence is that it did. In January 2019 Mr B 
did tell Allianz that he couldnt access the policy documents it sent him. But in February 2019 
Allianz resent the documents to an email address agreed with Mr B and it did so well before 
Mr and Mrs B needed to make a claim. Mr B didnt tell Allianz that they hadnt received the 
resent policy documents so it could reasonably understand the policy documents had been 
received.If Mr B had told Allianz at that time that he still didnt have the policy documents it could have 
discussed sending the documents another way. Theres no issue about Allianz sending 
those documents out of the cooling off period. Mrs B could have cancelled the policy at any 
time if shed wished to.
Im satisfied Allianz didnt mis-sell the policy in 2009 and it provided clear information in the 
policy renewal documents about the additional 20% excess. It could reasonably understand 
that Mr and Mrs B had received the information for the reasons Ive detailed above.
Allianzs offer of £75 compensation for distress and inconvenience isnt an admission that 
there was a problem with how it sold the policy. The offer was for any issues around Allianzs 
delay in responding to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint to it. Under the relevant Financial Conduct 
Authority rules a business has eight weeks to provide a final response to a complaint and  
Allianzs final response letter was within that timescale. Mr B contacted Allianz thereafter but 
I dont think it unreasonably substantively delayed in its responses and it was clear a 
complaint could be made to this service.
If Allianz hasnt paid the £75 compensation Mr and Mrs B may want to contact it to see if the 
offer is still open. As I dont think Allianzs service was unreasonable Im not going to make 
an award for the £75.
Im satisfied Allianz fairly and reasonably said the additional 20% excess applied to the 
claim.
Our investigator correctly explained to Mr and Mrs B that we don't regulate financial 
businesses or tell them how they should operate. So even if I did think that Allianz should 
communicate the additional excess information in a different way I couldnt tell it what it had 
to do. As Ive said, Im satisfied that the information Allianz gave to Mr and Mrs B about the  
additional excess was clear and sufficiently highlighted to them at appropriate times.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman