DRN-2104156
The complaint
Miss S complains that Bastion Insurance Limited turned down a claim on her
motor breakdown insurance policy.
For ease reading any reference to Bastion includes its agents.
What happened
Miss S called Bastion as her car had broken down and she thought it needed taking to a
garage for repair. She said her car was leaking fuel and she could smell it when shed
stopped and got out of the car. Miss S had tried filling the car up with fuel but as it was
leaking quickly, shed pulled over in a car park. As her car was leaking fuel Miss S called
Bastion.
Bastion reviewed Miss Ss claim and said it wasnt something they would cover as Miss Ss 
car wasnt immobile. They said her car needed to be immobile to be covered but offered to 
assist for an additional fee. Miss S declined. Bastion also said fuel leaks werent covered by 
the policy as they werent mechanical or electrical faults. Miss S then tried to start her car but 
as all the fuel had leaked out, it wouldnt start. She called Bastion again but was told as this 
was a second claim, the policy didnt cover it. Miss S then arranged for a family member to 
collect her and called a local garage. The garage came out to look at Miss Ss car and fixed 
it. Miss S said the garage told her the leak was coming from the fuel pump.
As Miss S didnt think Bastion had dealt with her claim fairly, she complained. Bastion
reviewed the claim and said her policy only provides cover where the car is rendered
completely immobile by a mechanical or electrical fault. They also said as the fault hadnt
been repaired the second claim wasnt covered as it was the same as the first claim she
made.
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 11 August 2020 where I said: 
The terms and conditions of Miss Ss policy say if her car suffers a breakdown then Bastion 
will send roadside assistance to attempt to repair the car. They go on to say if the car cant 
be repaired then they will arrange recovery to a local garage. The policy defines breakdown 
as an electrical or mechanical failure which immediately renders the Vehicle immobile.
Bastion have said that a fuel leak doesnt meet this definition as its not mechanical or 
electrical and it doesnt render the car immobile. Ive considered this and Im not persuaded
Bastion are applying this term in a fair and reasonable way. I say that because the repair to
Miss Ss car was for a leak from the fuel pump, and as the fuel pump has moving parts, Im 
satisfied its fair and reasonable to say it is mechanical. Ive also considered whether Miss 
Ss car was immobile, and Im persuaded it was. This is because while the car could be 
moved if it had fuel added, it wouldnt be safe or sensible to drive a car which is leaking fuel. 
Im therefore satisfied its fair and reasonable to say Miss Ss car was immobile.
As Im persuaded Miss Ss car met the definition of a breakdown, Bastion should have sent 
roadside assistance but didnt. Ive looked at the impact this had on Miss S. Shes said a 
local garage came out and repaired the car at the roadside and that it cost her £40. If a local 
garage was able to repair her car at the roadside I think its likely Bastion would have been 
able too as well. If Bastion had then Miss S wouldnt have paid £40 to the local garage. As 
this is money Miss S shouldnt have paid, Bastion should refund the £40 to her. They should 
also add 8% per year simple interest to this amount to compensate her for not having the 
money.
I also think Miss S suffered unnecessary distress and inconvenience because of Bastion
incorrectly declining her claim. This is because she had to call a family member to pick her
up, arrange another roadside assistance, and then be returned to her car. To compensate
her for this Bastion should pay her an additional £100 for the distress and inconvenience
caused.
Miss S responded and said she didnt have anything further to add. Bastion responded to 
say they hadnt previously been made aware that the fault was with the fuel pump and asked 
for any evidence of this. Our investigator let Bastion know Miss S no longer had the repair 
invoice, but said we had no reason to disbelieve her. Bastion replied and said they would 
need Miss S to substantiate her comments to show what the fault was. They also said if the 
case was considered in court, a court would require Miss S to substantiate her claim. 
Bastion also re-iterated that this was new information to them, and they would need to see 
the repair invoice to make any further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Bastions points, but theyve not persuaded me to depart from my provisional 
decision. I say this because when our investigator looked into the complaint, they put in their 
assessment that Miss S had told us the leak was from the fuel pump. So, Im not persuaded 
this is new information to Bastion. Even if it was, the purpose of my provisional decision is to 
give Bastion the opportunity to respond on that point. Ive therefore considered Bastions 
response. 
Even if the leak was coming from another part of the fuel system, rather than the pump, then 
I think a fair and reasonable interpretation of the definition of a breakdown would be for this 
claim to be met. This is because the engine and fuel supply have mechanical and electrical 
components and its most likely a fault would be from one of them. I also have no reason to 
disbelieve Miss Ss testimony, so while there isnt a repair invoice to support her verbal 
evidence, Im satisfied from what shes said its most likely accurate. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd needs to pay Mrs S:
£40 for the roadside repair to her car, plus 8% simple interest per year on this 
amount calculated from the date of the incident to the date it makes payment
£100 for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman