DRN-3996467
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are complaining about financial advice given to them by Prosperity 
Independent Financial Advisors and Stockbrokers Limited trading as Prosperity Financial 
Advisors and Stockbrokers (Prosperity).
What happened
Mr and Mrs W met with their longstanding financial adviser from Prosperity in 
September 2020. They explained that theyd wound up their business and were entering 
retirement. They said they were looking for advice on how to fund their retirement including 
holidays. The Prosperity adviser introduced Mr and Mrs W to another company, A, who 
advised Mr W and his wife to release equity from their property using a lifetime mortgage 
arrangement. 
The Prosperity adviser then suggested Mr and Mrs W try to mitigate inheritance tax (IHT) by 
investing the money released from the property into a loan trust through Prosperity. They 
recommended Mr W make a loan to a discretionary loan trust (DLT) which then invested in 
an offshore bond. This was split 50:50 between two different managed funds.
Mr and Mrs W complained to Prosperity (and company A) in September 2021 after a 
conversation with their children. They said the recommended products dont meet their 
requirements. They say the main objective at the time was to have the ability to pay for 
luxury holidays on an annual basis and they think neither of the recommended products 
meet this requirement or their wider objectives. Instead they could have made withdrawals 
from time to time from their existing investments rather than incurring large fees on both 
products. And they say their intended spending would have significantly reduced the IHT 
liability so negating the need for the DLT. 
Prosperity replied to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. They said any complaint about the equity 
release mortgage needed to be made to company A  they were aware such a complaint 
had already been made and not upheld. They said theyd introduced Mr and Mrs W to 
company A because one of the ways of reducing IHT is to create a debt against the estate in 
the form of a lifetime mortgage. But, having done that, they needed to remove the cash from 
the estate otherwise it would still be subject to IHT. 
In relation to the DLT, Prosperity felt it was suitable because it provided the potential for 
capital growth, allowed a regular income, and moved any growth in the investments outside 
Mr and Mrs Ws estate, effectively capping any IHT liability.  
Mr and Mrs W werent persuaded by Prosperitys response and brought their complaint to 
our service. Our investigator upheld the complaint, saying he didnt think Prosperity had 
made suitable recommendations. He said Prosperity ought to pay to Mr and Mrs W the 
difference between the total redemption cost of the mortgage and the value of the DLT plus 
all withdrawals from it. He said Prosperity should also pay Mr and Mrs W all fees and 
charges theyd taken in respect of the advice.
Prosperity disagreed with our investigator. They said their clients objectives had been to 
increase tax efficient income and to mitigate IHT. They said they agreed that funding for the 
luxury holidays could have come from existing investments but wouldnt have had the 
desired effect of immediately and substantially reducing their current IHT liability  which, 
they said, was achieved by creating a debt against the estate with the lifetime mortgage. 
Prosperity added that the roll-up interest in the lifetime mortgage would offset the likely 
increase in value of the property over time. They also said the investment bond and loan 
trust were an ideal structure for an individual looking to reduce their IHT while giving them 
access to large lump sums  but Mr and Mrs W didnt have sufficient existing assets (before 
taking out the lifetime mortgage) to achieve this. Finally, Prosperity said Mr and Mrs W were 
fully aware of the costs of the lifetime mortgage in terms of the roll up of interest but it was 
their advisers opinion that the cost of this would be less than the IHT saving.
Our investigator and Prosperity couldnt reach an agreement so the matter came to me for a 
decision. I issued a provisional decision on 27 June 2023. In that provisional decision I said:
Introduction to company A
Theres no documentation from the time which explains why Prosperity referred Mr and 
Mrs W to company A. In response to my questions, Prosperity said theyd explained the 
benefits and drawbacks of a lifetime mortgage to Mr and Mrs W over a number of years. 
Mr and Mrs W had acknowledged they were asset rich but income poor and that theyd 
want to look at either moving or a lifetime mortgage to release equity from their property 
 but then in 2019 it was clear they didnt want to move house. So, Prosperity say, they 
made the referral in 2020 on this basis. 
I dont think it was inappropriate for Prosperity to introduce Mr and Mrs W to company A 
 their testimony and Prosperitys indicates that Mr and Mrs W were looking to fund 
holidays in their retirement but didnt want to sell their house. Whilst they had other 
assets, principally in the form of an offshore bond, these were providing Mr and Mrs W 
with a monthly income. So I think it was reasonable for Prosperity to introduce their 
clients to company A to explore the possibility of a lifetime mortgage. 
Suitability of the lifetime mortgage
I cant say Prosperity advised Mr and Mrs W to take out the mortgage  theres no 
documentation that suggests this was the case. And its clear company A advised on the 
suitability of the mortgage. Our service has already considered Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint against company A. 
Because I dont think Prosperity advised Mr and Mrs W on the suitability of the 
mortgage, I cant say theyre responsible for the costs of it. It follows that Im not inclined 
to say Prosperity need to pay Mr and Mrs W the cost of unwinding the mortgage.
Suitability of the DLT
Prosperity were, however, responsible for recommending the DLT and offshore bond. I 
dont think these recommendations were suitable and Ill explain why.
Its clear from the October 2020 fact find and from testimony from both parties that Mr 
and Mrs W were recently retired and looking to enjoy their retirement, travelling as much 
as possible. The fact find was completed on the assumption that £300,000 would be 
released from their property by the lifetime mortgage. It also documents that Mr and Mrs 
W were looking to generate a tax efficient income from their savings and that they were concerned about a growing IHT liability. The fact find also said that Mr and Mrs W 
wanted to retain access to their capital.
Ive thought about all this and Im not persuaded the DLT was suitable for Mr and Mrs 
Ws needs. It created a debt from the DLT to Mr W  which is an asset in his estate for 
IHT purposes. So from that perspective its no better than holding the cash initially. The 
value of the loan and therefore the estate is gradually reduced as withdrawals are made 
from the bond. But that reduction in the value of the estate would also be the case when 
the cash was spent. Capital growth would fall outside of the estate with the DLT  but 
my understanding is that this cash was released from the mortgage with the primary 
intention of funding Mr and Mrs Ws lifestyle in retirement  not to be passed on when 
they died. And while the capital growth wouldnt be liable for IHT, it would have been 
classed as a chargeable event for any withdrawals greater than 5% per year.
As it happens, at the time Mr and Mrs W made additional withdrawals, the bond had 
made a loss rather than a gain. So the additional withdrawals didnt attract a tax liability. 
But when determining suitability, I think Prosperity should have anticipated there would 
be additional withdrawals and expected tax consequences of those.
Putting things right
Having reached a provisional conclusion that the DLT and bond werent suitable for Mr 
and Mrs W, I have to think about what theyd have done if theyd been given a suitable 
recommendation. I recognise that Mr and Mrs W say they wouldnt have taken out the 
mortgage, but  as Ive explained above  I cant hold Prosperity responsible for that. So 
I have to think about what they would have done with the £250,000 which was loaned to 
the DLT. It is not possible to say precisely what he would have done, but I am satisfied 
that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr W's circumstances and 
objectives when he invested.
Mr and Mrs W hadnt used any of their Individual Savings Account (ISA) allowances for 
the 20/21 tax year, and, as the DLT was set up in January, theyd shortly have had 
access to further ISA allowances. Im inclined to say Prosperity should have recommend 
Mr and Mrs W fully utilise their ISA allowances for 20/21 and 21/22, investing in medium 
risk assets to reflect their attitudes to risk as documented by the fact find. This would 
account for £80,000 of the £250,000. I think Mr and Mrs W would have kept the 
remainder in cash or in low risk, instant access accounts, as they were planning to 
spend significant amounts in the near future. 
What should Prosperity do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs W fairly, Im inclined to say Prosperity must:
Compare the performance of Mr W's investment with that of the benchmarks shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Prosperity should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay Mr W £300 for distress caused by the unsuitable advice.
Repay the advisors fees paid directly from Mr and Mrs W to Prosperity together with 
simple interest at 8% a year, from the date the fees were paid to the date of settlement. If the above comparison shows that no compensation is payable, the difference between 
the actual value and the fair value can be offset against the fees with interest.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
£170,000 of 
the DLTStill exists 
and liquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
£80,000 of 
the DLTStill exists 
and liquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, 
Prosperity should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as 
published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end 
of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually 
compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of 
regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Prosperity totals all those 
payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of 
deducting periodically. If any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a 
portfolio and left uninvested, they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair 
value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable? 
I have chosen this method of compensation because:Mr and Mrs W wanted income with some growth and were willing to accept some 
investment risk. Investing two tranches of £40,000 in ISAs, either side of the 2020/21 tax 
year end would have allowed them to achieve this in a tax efficient way. Whilst Im 
aware this would in practice have meant holding £40,000 in cash for a couple of months 
before investing it in early April 2021, Im satisfied treating all of the £80,000 as if it was 
invested in ISAs on the start date of the DLT is a reasonable and more pragmatic 
solution than splitting these tranches up. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would 
be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index 
is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given 
Mr W's circumstances and risk attitude.
Mr and Mrs W wanted to achieve a reasonable return and have ready access to a 
significant proportion of their capital. 
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for the remaining 
£170,000 given Mr W's circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr W would 
have invested only in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer 
could have obtained with little risk and easy access to their capital.
Both parties submitted comments on my provisional decision. Ill set these out and my 
responses below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W were very unhappy that Id said Prosperity couldnt be held responsible for 
the advice given to them by Company A. They said they felt strongly that the Prosperity 
advisor was responsible for introducing them to Company A and they commented that he 
was at the meeting with Company A and put pressure on them to take out the equity 
release mortgage. They said they explained at the time that they werent happy that the 
interest rate had gone up on the mortgage but were assured by advisors from both 
companies that it was in their best interests. Mr and Mrs W reiterated that they felt 
Prosperity should be held responsible for the cost to redeem the mortgage plus any early 
repayment penalties as they wouldnt have taken it out if the Prosperity advisor hadnt 
encouraged them to. 
I can understand Mr and Mrs Ws position but I remain of the view that I cant hold 
Prosperity responsible for the advice given to them by a different company. I realise 
Prosperity suggested the lifetime mortgage but Company A separately assessed the 
suitability of the product for Mr and Mrs W and ultimately made the recommendation.  
Mr and Mrs W were also upset with the amount of £300 that Id suggested  they said they 
both take medication for stress and the situation has caused them both increased anxiety. 
Ive thought about this but their comments havent changed my mind. This compensation is 
for the impact on Mr and Mrs W of the money being placed in trust rather than in the ISAs 
and instant access accounts that I said would be more suitable. Im satisfied £300 is a fair 
amount for that. Prosperity were also unhappy with my provisional decision. They said theyd discussed 
capital requirements at length and thought the £50,000 that was set aside as well as the 
£1,000 per month income from the trust would be enough for Mr and Mrs Ws needs. They 
said Mr and Mrs Ws main objective was to achieve an additional regular tax efficient 
income to support them in retirement. And Prosperity said Mr and Mrs W were keen to 
invest for growth rather than just savings. They also said it was reasonable to assume that 
the DLT would provide some IHT savings over the medium to long term. 
Ive considered Prosperitys comments but they havent changed my mind. Ive looked at 
the fact find again and this talks about travelling as much as possible over the next 10 
years. Whilst it does mention looking for options to increase annual tax efficient income, 
this is followed by and accessibility in the future. It talks about having sufficient rainy day 
funds in the event of an emergency and says £50,000 was available for emergencies. I 
cant see anywhere on the fact find documenting that this £50,000 was to cover holidays. 
Im satisfied there were other ways of investing some of the capital for growth at a medium 
risk level which would avoid the significant tax penalties of taking money out of a DLT. 
In summary, neither parties comments have changed my mind and so my final decision is 
unchanged from my provisional decision.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. My decision is that 
Prosperity Independent Financial Advisors and Stockbrokers Limited trading as Prosperity 
Financial Advisors and Stockbrokers should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman