DRN-2217592
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) has unfairly 
declined their motor insurance claim. Mr and Mrs H are being represented by a third party in 
this case, but for the purposes of this decision Ill refer to the parties collectively as 
Mr and Mrs H unless otherwise specified.
What happened
The background of this case is known in detail to both Mr and Mrs H and Admiral, so I wont 
repeat it in full again in this decision. But in summary, Mr and Mrs Hs vehicle was involved 
in a road traffic incident and they made a claim under their motor insurance policy for vehicle 
damage they say wasnt their fault. At the time of the incident, the vehicle was being driven 
by Mr H.
Admiral declined the claim after finding the incident hadnt happened in the manner Mr H 
reported to it. It said itd seen footage of the incident that showed Mr H using the vehicle to 
cause injury to another person which hed failed to disclose. And a police report showed hed 
been arrested over the incident. 
Admiral said thered been a deliberate attempt to mislead it over the circumstances 
surrounding the incident and as result it declined the claim. It explained Mr and Mrs Hs 
policy had been cancelled and that it would seek to recover any costs itd incurred and 
wouldnt return any premium paid.
Mr and Mrs H complained that it took Admiral too long to issue its decision on the claim and 
they think its unfair they had to continue paying premiums for the duration of the policy. 
They say the vehicle is a write off but was purchased by Mr H under finance, so hes now 
responsible for the outstanding amount owed to the finance company with no insurance to 
cover this loss. They say this has caused Mr H and the rest of the family a great deal of 
stress and worry, and they want Admiral to pay the claim.
Our investigator considered the matter but concluded Admiral had acted fairly in the 
circumstances of this case, so didnt uphold the complaint. The complaint has been passed 
to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When handling a claim Admirals duties include handling it promptly and fairly, not 
unreasonably rejecting it and providing reasonable guidance to make a claim and 
appropriate information on its progress. And once terms are agreed it should settle the claim 
promptly. So Ive kept this in mind when considering this complaint.
Time taken
Ive looked over the timeline of Admirals handling of Mr and Mrs Hs claim. Im satisfied the 
nature of this case meant a detailed review needed to be carried out before a decision could 
be made, and this naturally took some time. Admiral had to request police reports, review 
footage of the incident and await replies and testimonies from the relevant parties to help 
aide its investigation. 
From the evidence Ive seen in this case, I cant see Admiral caused unnecessary delays 
while gathering and reviewing this information. And it seems to have informed Mr and Mrs H 
that the matter could take time to resolve and explained the reasons why. So while I 
understand they wouldve liked to have known the outcome sooner, I dont think Admiral 
acted unfairly in relation to the time it took to give them a decision on the claim.
Outcome of claim
Admiral has outlined two general conditions and one general exception under the policy 
when declining Mr and Mrs Hs claim. In summary, these terms state that;
The policyholder or any person covered by the policy must protect the insured 
vehicle from loss or damage and failing to do so through inappropriate conduct of the 
driver will result in no cover being provided under the policy.
If the policyholder or anyone acting for them recklessly or deliberately misrepresents 
information at any time during the policy that impacts either the terms and conditions 
or Admirals ability to offer cover itself, or, submits a claim which is in any part 
fraudulent, false, exaggerated or if the policyholder or anyone acting for them makes 
a claim in a fraudulent or false way, or Admiral has been given a false statement, or 
any documents which are false or stolen, the policy and any connected policies will 
be cancelled or voided. And Admiral will seek to recover any costs its incurred and 
will not return any premium.
The policyholder or any person covered by the policy will not be covered for any 
liabilities they may have for any accident, injury, loss, theft or damage which happens 
while the insured vehicle is used by the policyholder or any driver shown on their 
current Certificate of Motor Insurance for criminal purposes (including avoiding lawful 
apprehension), or deliberate use of the car to cause injury to any person and/or to 
put any person(s) in fear of injury.
Admiral has provided detailed notes of Mr Hs initial account of how the incident happened, 
alongside subsequent statements he gave on later dates and notes from the police officer 
who attended the incident. In reviewing this information, its clear to me that Mr H initially 
underrepresented the circumstances of the incident, missing out key elements that detailed 
the extent of his involvement in the incident. 
Mr H doesnt deny that his initial statement differs from his later accounts and the police 
report, but he says when he initially reported the claim he was in shock and so missed out 
details of the incident by accident, and that the claim wasnt reported by him but rather 
another named driver on the policy. 
As set out in the conditions above, all parties named on the policy have a responsibility to 
provide Admiral with accurate information when making a claim. But the statement initially 
given to Admiral was in fact inaccurate and I think Mr H would reasonably have been aware 
of this, even if he was in shock. In addition to this, the footage does seem to show Mr H 
using his vehicle in a way that means his claim isnt covered under the policy terms set out 
above. And in my opinion, I think this is something he likely wouldve known he needed to 
make Admiral aware of immediately.With all of this in mind, Admiral believes theres been a deliberate attempt by Mr H to 
mislead it over the circumstances of the incident, and based on what Ive seen, I dont think 
this is an unfair conclusion for Admiral to reach in the circumstances of this case. 
As a result, Admiral has declined the claim and cancelled Mr and Mrs Hs policy. It wont be 
returning any premiums paid and will seek to recover from Mr and Mrs H, any costs it 
incurred in the handling of the claim. 
Im satisfied Admiral has shown Mr and Mrs H failed to meet certain conditions of the policy 
and also that certain exceptions apply to their claim. And on this basis Admiral is entitled to 
take the action it has as set out above. So I wont be directing it to do anything differently in 
relation to this or to pay the claim.
Premiums
Mr and Mrs H think the policy premiums shouldve stopped when they logged the claim. 
Admiral explained that Mr and Mrs H had a multicar policy, and its terms state  If you have 
more than one car on cover, or have arranged to insure other cars from a future date, then 
you would have received a discount on your overall premium. If any car is removed from the 
policy, the entitlement to a discount is lost. Consequently, the premium will be adjusted for 
each car.
It also pointed to a term in the policy which sets out how it handles premiums when a claim 
has been made  If you have made a claim, or a claim has arisen during the period of 
insurance for your car, your cars part of the premium is due, and no refund will be given, 
regardless of the payment method. If this policy has only one car on cover, then the total 
premium is due, and no refund will be given, regardless of the payment method.
In Mr and Mrs Hs case, a claim did arise during the period of insurance and they do in fact 
have a multicar policy. So it seems Admiral has acted in line with the policy terms and 
conditions by continuing to charge them premiums for the duration of the policy term. 
Therefore, I wont be directing it to do anything differently in relation to this.
Ive considered all of Mr and Mrs Hs points, including the stress and upset they say 
Admirals decision has caused their family. And while I was sorry to hear of this, for the 
reasons Ive explained above, I dont think Admiral has acted unfairly in its handling of the 
claim based on the evidence Ive seen. So these points dont change my conclusion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision 
before 16 March 2021.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman