DRN-1427816
The complaint
Miss C complains about problems registering for online banking with TSB Bank plc and that 
it failed to update her telephone number. 
Miss C also complains about treatment she received after she was asked to visit a branch. 
What happened
Miss C had previously had an account with TSB and opened a new one in September 2017.
In September 2018 Miss C complained to TSB because of problems she experienced 
when trying to use online banking. TSB discussed Miss C's complaint with her on 28 
September 2018 and paid her £155 to apologise for the problems she experienced. TSB 
says that it should have updated Miss C's telephone number across all its systems at this 
point but it failed to take that step. 
On 12 July 2019 Miss C contacted TSB again as she was still having problems using online 
banking. TSB says the problem was fixed by 19 July 2019 after it amended Miss C's 
telephone number on all its systems. The statements show Miss C was successfully able to 
make online payments from that time. 
Miss C says she was asked to visit her TSB branch but when she arrived she was told an 
appointment wasn't required. Miss C says she was spoken to rudely. 
Miss C referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. TSB 
contacted us to say it wanted to increase the settlement from the £155 it paid in September 
2018 to £255. Miss C initially accepted but later asked to appeal this complaint. As a result, 
I've been passed this complaint to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Miss C has several complaints about TSB. Please note that in this decision I'm 
only going to comment on the events set out above. 
It's clear Miss C did experience problems when she tried to use TSB's online banking facility. 
She first raised those issues in September 2018 and TSB told her the problems had been 
fixed and paid her £155. But TSB didn't fully update its systems with Miss C's correct 
telephone number which meant that when she tried to make an online payment in July 2019 
it didn't go through. Miss C had to contact TSB again before the technical issue was 
resolved. 
Whilst I can see Miss C had to contact TSB about the online banking problem more than 
once, I note she doesn't appear to have used the account between September 2018 and 
July 2019. There was only two debit card transactions and a cash machine withdrawal during this period. So it doesn't appear that the issue caused Miss C a significant 
amount of trouble. 
From 19 July 2019 Miss C's statements show she has been able to make online payments 
so I'm satisfied the problem was resolved at that point. 
Miss C has also raised concerns about how she was dealt with during a branch visit. TSB 
says it has no record of Miss C being asked to attend branch or the visit she has complained 
about. Like the investigator, I accept Miss C did visit a local branch to discuss her account. 
Miss C says she found the service to be rude and I've taken all her comments into account 
when reaching my decision. 
I can see there was a long time between the initial online banking problem being raised and 
finally resolved, but that reflects the fact Miss C wasn't regularly using her account. After 
Miss C went back to TSB in July 2019 it was quick to fix the technical issues. I accept that 
Miss C visited her branch and that she found the service provided to be poor. TSB has 
agreed to pay a total of £255 to resolve this complaint and I'm satisfied its offer is fair in all 
the circumstances and reflects the impact of the issues raised on Miss C. As TSB has 
already agreed to pay a fair level of compensation and has resolved the technical issues 
Miss C reported, I'm not telling it to take any further action. 
Putting things right
I agree with the investigator that TSB's offer to increase the total award to £255 is fair in all 
the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct TSB Bank plc to pay Miss C an 
additional £100 taking the total award to £255. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 June 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman