DRN-3020762
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs D complain that Allianz Global Assistance carried out defective repairs when 
responding to a claim they made under their home emergency policy. 
I will refer to Mr D for ease of reading in my decision.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr Ds boiler stopped working, leaving him and his family without heating 
or hot water. He contacted Allianz to make a claim under his home emergency policy. It 
arranged for an engineer to visit to investigate the problem. 
During the initial visit the engineer identified issues with a divertor valve, the plated heat 
exchanger as well as multiple leaks with the boiler. A repair couldnt be completed as spare 
parts were needed. At the second visit a few days later, the engineer didnt have all the 
required components to resolve the issue with the divertor valve. But did fit a plated heat 
exchanger and repaired all the visible leaks. 
A week later an engineer attended again. An issue with the divertor valve remained and was 
not fixed on this visit as a component was still required. A further week later, now in January 
2021, a replacement divertor valve was fitted. Two days later Mr D reported water leaking 
out of the boiler and through the ceiling. An engineer attended and noted a leaking seal 
further up in combustion chamber and reported, expansion vessel corroded  Potentially 2 
sites of leakage. The engineer then declared the boiler was beyond economical repair 
(BER). 
Allianz offered Mr D an apology and £200 for the time he was without heating and hot water. 
It said this shouldnt have taken so long to resolve. It also offered £55 to refund the cost of 
temporary heaters. And confirmed a contribution of £500 was available, under its policy 
terms, to go towards a replacement boiler. 
Mr D didnt think this was a fair outcome. He obtained a report from an independent engineer 
who said the leak had been caused by faulty workmanship and this meant the boiler couldnt 
now be repaired. Allianz reviewed the report but maintained its view. Mr D then referred to 
our service. Our investigator upheld his complaint. He accepted that Allianz engineer hadnt 
completed the repairs correctly and this meant the boiler was now beyond economical 
repair.
Our investigator said Allianz should pay to replace the boiler and pay a total of £500 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.   
An agreement wasnt reached. The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D says the initial repairs to the boiler were delayed as a result of insufficient/incorrect 
parts that were ordered. Records of the engineer visits supplied by Allianz support this point. 
Several issues were identified at the first visit including a problem with the divertor valve. 
The notes from visits two and three show the engineer didnt have the parts needed to fix the 
valve. This was eventually replaced on the fourth visit meaning hot water was available, 
albeit around two and a half weeks after the boiler stopped working. 
Mr D explains the boiler developed a leak the day after the valve was replaced. He describes 
water pouring through his living room ceiling. This caused damage to the ceiling, the 
flooring in the living room and to a carpet in the loft space adjacent to the boiler. 
Allianz sent another engineer. Mr D says he turned off all water and heating to the property 
and then left advising he would arrange a replacement part for the boiler. He says he was 
later made aware the boiler had been declared BER. Allianzs records point to a leaking seal 
in the boiler combustion chamber and corroded expansion vessel as the possible sources of 
the leak. It confirms its engineer had deemed the boiler to be BER at this time.
Having discussed next steps with Allianz, Mr D obtained the independent report to identify if 
its engineer had caused the problem. The report says:
Upon re-establishing the water supply to the boiler, I found the leak coming from the cold 
water inlet to the plated heat exchanger    
Upon stripping down and removing the plated heat exchanger, which would have been a 
required action by the previous contractor in order to install the new diverter valve, I 
discovered that the O-rings on all connections to the plated heat exchanger had not been 
replaced, as is highly recommended and generally standard practice with a boiler of this age 
when carrying out this type of repair. Likely due to this, the old O-ring on the cold water inlet 
had torn, and was the cause of the leak.
And:
Regarding the reported crack in the combustion chamber, we found no evidence of any 
such fault. The combustion chamber box is in good condition for its age, all rubber grommets 
are still present, pliable and in good condition. At the end of this report are pictures of all 
grommets, combustion chamber door seals, and the combustion chamber itself, all showing 
no visible signs of distress or undue wear and tear.
It is our conclusion that if all O-rings were changed by the previous contractor, the present 
leak on the boiler could have been avoided, and the amount of work required to check and 
replace everything now is substantially more than should have been necessary if work had 
been completed at the time of the initial repair to standard practice.
Allianz was asked to comment on the report Mr D supplied. It says the O-rings for the 
divertor valve were replaced. It also says the leak its engineer found came from the O-rings 
associated with the heat exchanger (not the plated heat exchanger). The company says 
these would not be replaced as it was not needed for repair (sic) to the divertor valve. 
The company explained the boiler has two heat exchangers. The plated heat exchanger that 
it replaced, and the main heat exchanger. It has supplied photos of these components and a 
diagram that shows where they are housed within the boiler. It says the main heat 
exchanger wasnt replaced by its engineers and there wasnt a need to replace O-rings 
related to this component. It points to the plated heat exchanger as being situated below the 
main heat exchanger in the lower part of the boiler. From this, Allianz is saying that O-rings for the plated heat exchanger were replaced and 
that its engineer identified the leak in a different part of the boiler. Meaning its engineers 
workmanship was not the cause of the leak. 
I have read through the expert opinions provided by both parties in detail and thought 
carefully about where the leak originated and what this means for Mr Ds complaint.
Having done so, I find Mr Ds expert report more persuasive, in that it shows the leak 
originated from the plated heat exchanger, not the main heat exchanger. The report explains 
the plated heat exchanger would need to be stripped down in order to replace the divertor 
valve. It includes photos of the failed O-ring removed from the cold-water inlet for the plated 
heat exchanger. 
It was shortly after the divertor valve was replaced by Allianzs engineer that the leak 
occurred. As above the independent engineer confirms the plated heat exchanger had to be 
stripped down to do this.  
Although Allianz says its engineer changed the O-rings  there is no direct evidence to 
support this. On balance I think its probable that this wasnt done. And as above, the leak 
occurred shortly after Allianzs engineer carried out a repair. This points to its engineers 
work resulting in the leak.
I have also thought about whether it was reasonable to expect the boiler could be repaired. 
Mr Ds engineer was asked for his opinion. He determined the boiler was left BER because 
of Allianzs engineers failure to carry out the repair correctly. His report says:
Had the original repair been carried out correctly, it would have been a cost effective repair, 
and in my opinion the boiler would likely have continued to function as normal, as there were 
no other visible signs of defects. 
Due to the incorrectly carried out work, water damage has occurred, which would have 
necessitated that the entire repair be repeated, and further components checked, possibly 
requiring replacement themselves if they had also been damaged by water ingress. The 
amount of damage would not be calculable until work began, and the time required to check 
all parts would create a very large labour cost.
Taking into consideration the above points, the cost to repeat the same repair and carry out 
further repairs caused by the incorrectly carried out work would be great enough that it would 
not be economical to repair the boiler back to its working standard prior to the engineers 
work.
I must rely on the expert opinions and evidence provided. Based on this the report from Mr 
Ds engineer is more persuasive. Had the O-rings been replaced, I think its probable that a 
lasting and effective repair could have been achieved. I also note the independent engineer 
didnt find an issue with the combustion chamber as identified by Allianzs engineer.
The guiding principle I must consider here is that Mr D is returned to the position he was in 
prior to the defective repair. Im satisfied Allianz is responsible for the leak and the boiler no 
longer being repairable. The boiler wasnt new, and a replacement will include some 
betterment. However, it isnt possible to repair it because of the defective work. The only 
option is replacement. In these circumstances I think its fair that Allianz pays the cost of 
installing a new boiler, and the cost of repairs for damage to the carpet, living room ceiling 
and flooring that resulted from the leak.
I have also thought about the impact the problems described had on Mr D and his family.They were without a fully functional boiler for approximately three weeks during the winter 
months. This was partly because of the time Allianz took to obtain the correct replacement 
parts. And partly because of the leak caused by its engineers workmanship. This put the 
boiler out of operation for longer as the boiler had to be replaced as opposed to repaired. It 
also meant further repairs were required to Mr Ds home.   
I acknowledge Mr Ds comments that this was particularly distressing for his wife, given the 
lack of washing facilities available for her during the pandemic. I think its fair that Allianz 
apologised and offered compensation for this. But I think the amount it provides should be 
higher to fully acknowledge the distress and inconvenience caused. I think £500, in total, is 
fair in the circumstances described.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Allianz Global Assistance should now:
pay the cost of the boiler and installation;
pay a total of £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused; and
pay the cost of repairs to the living room ceiling, the damaged flooring and carpet on 
provision of appropriate costings from Mr D.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman