DRN-3260531
Complaint
Mr M has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) unfairly added charges to the 
overdraft on his current account.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that what Barclays has already 
done  refunding the overdraft fees added to Mr Ms account from October 2019 onwards  
was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. 
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Barclays has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they'd be in 
if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have.
So where a business increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility 
which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer 
in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that 
credit. This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added 
to any credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if 
those interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case, Mr M has been left with an outstanding balance even though hes been 
refunded all of the interest, fees and charges applied from October 2019. So while Mr M 
has been left with a balance and he might be unhappy with this, Barclays has done what Id 
normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mr M says Barclays should do something different here. He says that he shouldnt have 
been charged non-sterling transaction fees when using his card abroad and hes also had 
issues with mobile banking and his debit cards. 
Ive started by looking at the non-sterling transaction fees added to Mr Ms account. 
Mr M incurred these fees when using his debit card abroad. Ive seen the terms and 
conditions that apply to Mr Ms account. Im satisfied that these terms and conditions clearly 
state that a fee will be charged for non-sterling transactions. And I understand that the 
amount of the fee charged is broadly in line with those of other banks and also reflects the 
cost imposed by the card scheme operator for transactions made abroad.
So Im satisfied that Barclays did make Mr M aware of these charges albeit these particular 
terms wont have been as important to him  I dont think there was any indication Mr M 
intended to spend significant periods abroad -  at the time he opened his account. 
Equally, while I know Mr M may not have been expecting to pay a fee when he used his 
debit card abroad, he did nonetheless continue using in it even after learning this was the 
case. And in these circumstances, it was Mr Ms choice to use his debit card to make these 
transactions knowing that there would be a cost. As Barclays notified Mr M of the costs and 
he used the service in question, I dont think that the charges are unfair in this instance.
Ive also thought about what Mr M has said about the distress and inconvenience Barclays 
actions caused. 
Having given thought to this matter, I do think its worth me explaining that Im only looking at 
Barclays actions in relation to Mr Ms current account in this decision. I know Mr M has 
mentioned issues with a home insurance claim and his Barclaycard. But these are totally 
separate matters and Ive not considered them here.
Its clear that Mr M had difficulties with his debit card and mobile banking. Its also clear that 
Barclays could and should have done more to assist him at the time. But Barclays has 
already paid Mr M around £300 for the issues hes had, which is what Id expect for repeated 
small errors which require a reasonable effort to sort out. And as most of these issues are 
historic  they occurred well before Mr M complained  Im satisfied that the amount paid 
already is sufficient compensation for the poor service Barclays provided in relation to Mr 
Ms current account.    
Bearing in mind all of this and what Ive already said about the compensation for Mr Ms 
overdraft charges, Im satisfied that what Barclays has already agreed to do to put things 
right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his case. 
I realise that this will be very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope that hell understand the 
reasons for my decision and at least feel that his concerns have been listened to. And I 
leave it to Mr M to decide whether he wishes to accept Barclays offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Barclays Bank UK Plc has already 
done to put things right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his case. So 
Im not requiring to do anything further.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman