DRN-2698535
The complaint
Mr G complains, on behalf of his business J, about Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) and its 
decision to close his business bank account. He wants Lloyds to reopen the account, or to 
explain why the account was closed. 
 
What happened
Mr G previously held a business bank account with Lloyds for his business, J. 
In late 2020, Lloyds conducted a review of Js account. Lloyds took the decision to close the 
account and wrote to Mr G giving him 60 days notice of the account closure. 
Mr G has made efforts to find another bank who would open a replacement account for him 
but has been unsuccessful. 
Mr G complained to Lloyds. 
Lloyds sent its final response in February 2021. It did not uphold his complaint and explained 
that the account terms and conditions allowed Lloyds to close the account, without giving a 
reason, on 60 days notice. 
Mr G was not happy and contacted us. He explained that being without the account will 
mean that he is unable to pay staff or make regular payments. 
One of our investigators has looked into this complaint and set out his view to the parties. In 
this, he quoted the relevant terms for the account which set out that the business can close 
the account for any reason, by giving two months notice. The investigator therefore did not 
think that the business had acted unreasonably. 
Mr G did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have great sympathy for Mr G, and the difficulties this decision to close the account will 
create for him and his business. I do, however, have to consider whether the business has 
acted in a way which is fair and reasonable, taking into account its terms and conditions. 
The terms and conditions of an account are agreed at the outset of the relationship in order 
to confirm the expectations of both parties. It is reasonable to assume that, in taking the 
account, Mr G accepted and agreed to the terms and conditions. 
As my colleague explained, these terms provide for the end of the relationship between 
account holder and business, and allow the business to end the relationship for any reason 
by giving two months notice. The terms do not require a reason to be given. 
Consequently, I agree that the business has acted in line with its terms. 
We accept that businesses, and consumers, are entitled to choose who to do business with, 
and where there is no evidence of discrimination, we will usually conclude that a business 
has acted fairly if it has complied with its terms. 
Here there is no evidence of discrimination and the business has acted in line with its terms 
so I do not think that the business has acted unfairly. 
I realise that the decision to close the account has caused difficulties for J, and that this 
decision will be disappointing, but I hope it explains clearly why I have reached it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Js complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC and do 
not ask Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman