DRN-1812263
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner. 
What happened
Mr S was given four loans with Mr Lender between June 2017 and July 2019. He says he 
couldnt afford to repay the loans and they increased his financial hardship. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint. He said Mr Lender shouldnt have given loans 
2 to 4 to Mr S. So he asked Mr Lender to pay Mr S some compensation. 
Mr Lender didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr S could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include: 
the lower a customers income (as it could be more difficult to make loan repayments 
from a lower level of income); 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (as it could be more difficult to meet a higher 
repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (as repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable). 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
I think its important for me to say that Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr S 
could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. In particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; and without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. 
Mr Lender did some checks before it lent to Mr S. It asked him for his monthly income and 
normal expenditure. And it did a credit check. Mr S told Mr Lender his monthly income was 
£1,100 and his outgoings were about £600. His first loan with Mr Lender was for £200, 
repayable in three monthly instalments of about £120. 
I think the checks Mr Lender did before agreeing the first loan were proportionate. The 
amounts that Mr S needed to repay were small compared with the disposable income hed 
declared. Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ss circumstances 
at the time, and his borrowing history with Mr Lender, I dont think it would have been 
proportionate for it to ask him for the amount of information that would be needed to show 
the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first loan. 
Mr S opted to make an interest only payment instead of one of his three repayments for 
loan 1. Mr Lender says this cannot be an indicator he was struggling financially. While I 
agree it doesnt necessarily mean he was struggling financially, I think it could indicate he 
was having problems managing his money. Mr S took out loan 2 on the same day that he 
repaid loan 1. The amount he borrowed increased from £200 to £750. The instalments of 
£300 per month were more than 25% of his monthly income. And Mr S had to maintain these 
payments over six months. 
Mr Lender didnt agree with our investigator that these factors indicated it was unlikely Mr S 
would be able to sustainably meet these repayments, and his other outgoings, without 
having to borrow again. But I think that when Mr S asked for loan 2 Mr Lender should have 
realised that it couldnt safely rely on the information he was providing about his finances. I 
think Mr Lender should have taken steps at that time, and before any subsequent loans, to 
independently verify Mr Ss true financial position. Mr S provided copies of his bank 
statements from that time and these show a significant number of transactions with gambling 
businesses. Had Mr Lender made proportionate checks, I think it would have known further 
lending wasnt affordable or sustainable.
When Mr S asked for loans 3 and 4, in May and July 2019, hed been borrowing from 
Mr Lender for about two years without a break. Hed extended repayment of loan 2, saying 
hed had a change in his circumstances, from six months to 14 months. And he borrowed 
£750 (loan 3) and £1,000 (loan 4), so he wasnt reducing the amount he was borrowing from 
Mr Lender. I think this pattern of borrowing should have alerted Mr Lender to a problem. I 
think Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. I think that Mr S lost out because he paid interest and charges on loans 
he shouldnt have been given. So Mr Lender needs to put things right.  Putting things right
I dont think Mr Lender should have agreed to lend to Mr S after, and including, the loan he 
was given in September 2017 (loan 2). If Mr Lender has sold the outstanding debt it should 
buy it back if its able to do so and then take the following steps. If its not able to buy the 
debt back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below. 
Mr Lender should:
refund all the interest and charges Mr S paid on loans 2 to 4 (including any payments 
made to a third party, but not including anything its already refunded).
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 4 and treat all the payments 
Mr S made towards this loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking Mr Ss loan account as Ive directed results in Mr S effectively having made 
payments above the original capital borrowed, then Mr Lender should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement.
if reworking Mr Ss loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then Mr 
Lender can use the total refund for loans 2 to 4 (after the deduction of tax) to offset this.
Remove any adverse information about loan 2 from Mr Ss credit file. The pattern of 
loans taken from loan 3 onwards means any information recorded about them is 
adverse. So all entries about loans 3 and 4 (when fully repaid) should be removed from 
Mr Ss credit file.  
HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order PDL Finance Limited to take the steps and 
pay the compensation set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman