DRN-2872246
The complaint
Mr C complains about PrePay Technologies Limiteds (PrePay) response to when he 
reported that hed sent money to one of their customers as the result of a scam. 
  
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In July 2020 Mr C sent a payment for £998 from his account with his own bank (that Ill refer 
to as C) to an account held with PrePay. The payment was made as the result of an HMRC 
scam in which Mr C had been tricked into believing he had an outstanding tax bill. 
Mr C complained about both the actions of C and PrePay. His full financial loss along with 
8% interest for the time he was without the money was refunded to him in early 2021 by C. 
Mr C wanted to pursue his complaint against PrePay as he believes they have caused him 
avoidable distress and inconvenience. He has mentioned figures between £300 and £500 
that he would deem to be suitable compensation. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and ultimately recommended that £100 
should be paid. PrePay accepted that recommendation but Mr C disagreed. He asked for an 
ombudsman to make a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no financial loss to consider here. Mr C has been compensated (for his financial 
loss) in full by C  this included 8% simple interest. Mr Cs complaint is that hes been 
caused avoidable distress and inconvenience by the way PrePay dealt with matters after 
being informed his payment was made as a result of a scam. 
It is accepted by both sides that PrePay made errors when responding to the allegation of 
fraud. An indemnity sent by C was mislaid resulting in further unnecessary communication 
and delays. In circumstances like this, the communication will primarily be between the two 
banks. This will normally involve the sending bank communicating with the receiving bank on 
their customers behalf.  And whilst I can understand his reasons for doing so, Mr C involving 
himself in that communication is likely to have caused him additional concern. But I accept 
that the failings by PrePay had an effect on Mr C himself. He would have been worried about 
whether he would receive his money back for a longer period than if the errors hadnt 
occurred.
Mr C has alleged that PrePay were involved in the fraud itself. Ive not seen evidence to 
support that is the case. In any case Mr Cs allegation would be a criminal matter for the 
police to investigate rather than our service. 
All that remains to be determined is whether the £100 compensation recommended by our 
investigator results in a fair and reasonable outcome. I think it does, so Im not going to 
require PrePay to pay more. I acknowledge the wider circumstances at the time and being a 
victim of crime will have impacted on Mr C. But I cant fairly hold PrePay responsible for all 
the distress and inconvenience he experienced  much of this would have been the fault of 
the criminal responsible for the scam. Nor can I hold them responsible for the pandemic and 
its impact. In this context and strictly in relation to the impact of errors that PrePay are 
responsible for in relation to this complaint, I think £100 is a fair amount of compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Unless 
theyve already done so, PrePay Technologies Limited must pay Mr C £100 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman