DRN-3932864
The complaint
Mr M and Ms W complain about the price quoted by Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) to 
renew their car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M and Ms W took out car insurance with Aviva. For the renewal year 2021/2022 the 
premium was £361.12 which they paid at £30.10 per month. In May 2022  and during this 
policy year, they decided to add a family member to the policy. This incurred an additional 
payment of £33.94 and increased their monthly payment to £47.08 until the end of the policy. 
Mr M and Ms W then received a renewal invite in July 2022 with a quote for £564.39 and a 
monthly payment of £47.04. Mr M and Ms W say this reminded them they needed to remove 
their family member from their policy, which they then did. Mr M and Ms W then received an 
updated renewal quote, but the premium remained the same. 
Mr M and Ms W say they queried this with Aviva, particularly as this was significantly higher 
than what theyd paid the previous year, but Aviva maintained the price was correct. Mr M 
and Ms W decided not to renew with Aviva. Mr M and Ms W say they then applied for a 
policy with Aviva as a new customer and this gave a price of £467.16  which is cheaper 
than the £564.39 theyd been quoted for renewal. Mr M and Ms W complained as they felt it 
was unfair their renewal quote was the same with and without the family member being 
included on the policy. And, they also felt Aviva hadnt followed guidelines issued by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to charge renewing customers the same as new 
customers.  
Aviva responded and explained the original renewal invite was generated on 11 July with a 
premium of £564.39. They explained, following Mr M and Ms Ws call to remove a family 
member from the policy, this led to a refund of £7.74. On 13 July another renewal invite was 
sent showing the same premium of £564.39. They explained Mr M and Ms W queried this 
but were informed the price was correct. Aviva acknowledged this was a system error which 
led to Mr M and Ms W receiving a duplicate of the original renewal quote and not an 
amended version. Aviva apologised and offered £75 compensation for any upset caused. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M and Ms W. He thought Aviva hadnt treated Mr M 
and Ms W unfairly in relation to the pricing and the £75 compensation offered was fair for 
Avivas error in sending a duplicate quote. Mr M and Ms W disagreed so the matter has 
come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Avivas offer is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Mr M 
and Ms W will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I can see Mr M and Ms W paid a premium of £364.70 in 2020 followed by a premium of 
£361.12 in 2021. There was a mid-term adjustment applied to the 2021/2022 policy following 
Mr M and Ms Ws request to add another driver  which generated an additional cost. Mr M 
and Ms W then received a renewal quote for £564.39  incurring a monthly payment of 
£47.04 - and realised they hadnt removed the additional driver from the policy. They then 
asked Aviva to do this, but the updated quote they received showed no change to the price. 
Mr M and Ms W say they consider the additional driver to have been high risk, so I 
understand why they became concerned when, after removing them, there was no change 
to the premium. 
Aviva accept they got things wrong here. They say, due to a system error, the amended 
quote invitation was actually a duplicate of the original quote. They say, when the additional 
driver was removed, the change didnt carry through to the revised renewal which led to a 
duplicate being sent quoting the same price. They also accept theyd made an error by 
giving Mr M and Ms W assurances that the amended quote was correct when Mr M and    
Ms W contacted them to query the revised quote. Aviva have apologised for this and also 
offered £75 compensation. I understand why this concerned Mr M and Ms W and why they 
were upset at being told the price was correct. I can see Mr M and Ms W then decided not to 
renew their policy. I do understand why Mr M and Ms W are concerned about a price 
increase from £361.12 to £564.39  but that is why Aviva accept theyve made an error. The 
quote for £564.39 isnt the correct quote for a renewal based on Mr M and Ms W being on 
the policy without the additional driver. So, taking this into account, I think Aviva should pay 
compensation for the upset and concern caused to Mr M and Ms W. And, I think £75 is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.  
 
I acknowledge Mr M and Ms W refer to the new rules for general insurance pricing 
introduced by the FCA in January 2022. They apply to motor and buildings insurance only 
and insurers need to make sure they comply with these rules when offering renewals. The 
rules arent retrospective and only apply to renewals generated from 1 January 2022. 
The rules were put in place to remove the risk of existing customers paying more than new 
customers. It places an obligation on insurers to make sure they charge renewing customers 
the same as new customers. The FCA refers to this as the equivalent new business price 
(ENBP). The ENBP needs to be reflective of the new business price the day the renewal 
invite is generated. The new pricing rules were in place when Mr M and Ms W were offered 
their renewal by Aviva, so they did need to follow these at the time. But, having looked 
through the information, I cant say Aviva have acted unfairly here.  
Ive already mentioned the £564.39 quote wasnt correct and I cant see Aviva actually 
issued a correct revised quote with the additional driver taken off the policy. I can see Aviva 
explained to Mr M and Ms W that, as the policy renewal had been cancelled, theyre unable 
to go into the renewal to make the changes to see what the correct price wouldve been. 
They also explained that, given the removal of the additional driver led to a refund of £7.74, 
they believe, had the correct changes carried through to the revised quote, then the price 
wouldve been lower than £564.39. So, without knowing the correct price, I cant say Aviva 
have charged Mr M and Ms W more than the ENBP. I can see though that, when Aviva removed the additional driver from the policy, they 
explained the annualised price wouldve been £436.27 had this change been made at the 
start of the policy. This was based on a recalculation they carried out a day before the 
revised quote, so I think this does demonstrate the correct renewal price with the additional 
driver removed would likely have been lower than the £564.39 quote. So, given theres only 
a one-day difference, if I do therefore take the £436.27 price as being representative of the 
premium that Mr M and Ms W wouldve likely been charged at renewal then, in comparing 
this to the new business price of £467.16, I cant say Aviva have treated Mr M and Ms W 
unfairly here. The information provided shows Mr M and Ms W havent been charged more 
than the ENBP. The new business price is slightly higher than the £436.27 price and this 
might well be down to the fact that, in the new business quote, Mr M and Ms W selected two 
types of optional cover which they didnt have in the existing policy. 
I acknowledge Mr M and Ms Ws complaint isnt specifically about the new business price, 
but I think it will be helpful for me to explain how this has been calculated and why it differs 
from the renewal price they received. Aviva have provided me with confidential business 
sensitive information to explain how Mr M and Ms Ws new business price was calculated. 
Im afraid I cant share this with them because its commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it 
carefully. And Im satisfied the new business price they were quoted has been calculated 
correctly and fairly. Aviva have explained the new business price has been calculated on a 
different platform and pricing structure compared to the renewal and theyve explained how 
this works. As mentioned above, I cant share this with Mr M and Ms W, but I hope theyre 
reassured that Ive looked at this and Im satisfied Aviva havent made an error here. 
Mr M and Ms W point out that their 2021/2022 premium was £361.12  and this was without 
the additional driver being included on the policy. But, in Avivas letter of 12 July 2022, they 
confirm the additional driver has been removed from the policy and explain the annualised 
price is £436.27. They say This is what you would have paid at the start of your policy term 
if the change(s) youve madehad applied to the full 12 months of your policy. I understand 
Mr M and Ms W are concerned by this because they paid £361.12 but, following a change 
during that policy year  in the form of adding and then removing an additional driver - they 
were then informed the policy wouldve been around £75 more. Mr M and Ms W believe this 
shows Aviva recalculated their premium at the point they made the mid-term adjustment, but 
they say they were never informed this would happen when they originally made the change. 
I havent specifically addressed this complaint as I cant see Aviva have been given an 
opportunity to address this first. So, Ill leave this with Mr M and Ms W to decide whether 
they wish to raise the complaint about why the recalculated price for the 2021/2022 year 
wouldve been £436.27 when they were actually charged less than this.   
I can see Mr M and Ms W also raise a concern about the two renewal quotes they received 
for £564.39. Both say the monthly payment is £47.04 but one says last years monthly 
payment was £43.98 and the other says it was £36.36. I can see Mr M and Ms W raise 
points about why they believe last years payments have been presented in this way, but I 
cant see this specific complaint has been addressed by Aviva. So, again, Ill leave this with 
Mr M and Ms W to decide whether they wish to raise the complaint with Aviva first.  
I acknowledge Mr M and Ms W are upset about the price they were quoted but I hope my 
explanation reassures them the quote they received wasnt correct. I know this led to them 
deciding not to renew with Aviva and its the impact of this error which I think makes it fair 
and reasonable for Aviva to pay compensation. I wish to reassure Mr M and Ms W Ive read 
and considered everything theyve sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or 
piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont 
feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is 
a reflection of the informal nature of our service.My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited have already made an offer to pay £75 compensation to settle the 
complaint, and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited should pay £75 to Mr M and Ms W, if they 
havent done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman