DRN-4291092
The complaint
Mr B is complaining about Moneybarn No.1 Limited trading as Moneybarn.  He says they 
shouldnt have lent to him as the loan was unaffordable. Mr Bs complaint was brought to our 
service by a representative but for ease Ive written as if weve dealt directly with him.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr B took out a conditional loan agreement with Moneybarn, to finance 
the purchase of a car. Mr B paid a deposit of £500 and borrowed £4,094, to pay the cash 
price of £4,594. The agreement required him to make 35 monthly repayments of £201.05. 
Mr B first missed a payment in January 2021 and has struggled to maintain payments since.
In January 2023, Mr B complained to Moneybarn, saying they shouldnt have lent to him 
because the loan was unaffordable. He said hed missed payments against a short-term loan 
in November 2019 and his credit history since December 2019 demonstrated his reliance on 
borrowing. He said Moneybarn hadnt conducted thorough, appropriate and reasonable 
checks when deciding to lend to him.
Mr B also complained that Moneybarn hadnt treated him with forbearance and due 
consideration when he fell into arrears.
In response, Moneybarn said theyd done a full credit search with one of the credit reference 
agencies (CRA). They added that theyd verified Mr Bs income using the CRA and used 
statistical data from the Office of National Statistics (ONS) to estimate Mr Bs non-
discretionary expenditure. They said theyd also used the information from Mr Bs credit file 
to assess his ongoing credit commitments at the time of his application. 
Moneybarn said they assessed Mr Bs net monthly disposable income at around £500 which 
was enough to cover the repayments on the agreement. They added that in signing the 
contract Mr B had confirmed that his net monthly income wasnt less than £1,400 and his 
non-discretionary expenditure was no more than £700.90.
In relation to Mr Bs account conduct, Moneybarn noted Mr B had made his first six monthly 
repayments on time. They said after that his financial position had fluctuated but this seemed 
to be because of changes in personal and financial circumstances instead of because of the 
lending decision. Moneybarn added that theyd taken appropriate steps to help Mr B 
including obtaining income and expenditure details and setting up an affordable payment 
plan for him.
Mr B remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint though. She said that she didnt think Moneybarns checks were 
proportionate but that even if they had done proportionate checks theyd have decided the 
agreement was affordable for Mr B. Our investigator also felt Moneybarn had treated Mr B 
fairly when he was facing financial difficulties.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators view. He said at the time of the lending decision:
his expenditure was much higher than the amount estimated by Moneybarn and by 
our investigator;
our investigator had overstated his income;
he was actively paying another credit provider £380 - £500 a month; and
he had an active payday loan and two defaulted accounts. 
Mr B and our investigator were unable to reach agreement  so the complaints come to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did Moneybarn carry out proportionate checks?
Moneybarn say they checked Mr Bs credit file. Theyve not retained a copy of the credit file 
but theyve told us Mr B had five outstanding defaults, one of which was five months old at 
the time of the lending decision. Theyve said the credit file showed Mr B had around £3,300 
outstanding on his defaults, against original default balances totalling £3,400. But, they said, 
it showed Mr B had no active credit commitments.
Moneybarn also used CRA data to verify Mr Bs income, at £1,400 per month. And they used 
ONS data to estimate his expenditure, at £700 per month. They included a buffer of around 
£200 per month and calculated he had disposable income of around £500 per month  
enough to comfortably manage the repayments on the proposed conditional sale agreement.
Given Mr Bs recent default, I dont think it was enough for Moneybarn to rely on statistical 
data and automated checks when assessing the affordability of the agreement for Mr B. The 
default suggests that Mr B wasnt able to meet existing credit commitments and was 
therefore an indication that the statistical data might not be applicable to him. 
If Moneybarn had carried out proportionate checks, what would they have found?
A proportionate check would have involved Moneybarn finding out more about Mr Bs 
income and expenditure to determine whether Mr B would be able to make repayments in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive looked at statements for Mr Bs bank account for the three months preceding his 
application to Moneybarn  September, October and November 2019. Im not saying 
Moneybarn needed to obtain bank statements as part of their lending checks. But in the 
absence of other information, bank statements provide a good indication of Mr Bs financial 
circumstances at the time the lending decision was made.These statements show Mr Bs income was, on average, around £1,250 per month. Mr B 
was paying £400 a month for rent and had a few other regular payments for gym 
membership, mobile phone and TV  but these only totalled around £60 per month. Theres 
no evidence in the statements of other regular expenditure - much of his spending seems to 
have been discretionary  for example on takeaways and going out, as well as on gambling. 
Deducting Mr Bs rent, the proposed monthly repayments on this agreement, and his other 
regular payments from his income leaves Mr B with monthly disposable income at the time 
of around £590. This doesnt allow for spending on essentials such as food as there was 
limited evidence of spending on groceries in the statements. But Im satisfied £590 per 
month would have been enough for these essentials. On balance, Im satisfied that if 
Moneybarn had done more checks, theyd still have decided the agreement was affordable 
for Mr B his income was significantly higher than his non-discretionary expenditure.
In responding to our investigators view, Mr B mentioned that he was paying around £380 - 
£500 per month to another credit provider. But this was short-term revolving credit  hed 
draw the funds and then pay it back with interest within a few weeks. He wasnt paying this 
amount from his income. He also mentioned he had an active payday loan and two defaulted 
accounts. People choose to manage their money in different ways and although these can 
be indicators of financial difficulties, Mr Bs income and spending suggest the agreement 
was affordable for him.
Did Moneybarn treat Mr B unfairly in any other way?
Ive considered Mr Bs complaint that Moneybarn didnt treat him with forbearance and due 
consideration when he fell into arrears. Ive reviewed all Moneybarns notes on Mr Bs file 
and I can see there were extensive communications between Moneybarn and Mr B. 
Moneybarn allowed Mr B a two-month payment holiday and allowed him to skip payments 
and rearrange payment dates. They discussed payment plans on several occasions, 
including carrying out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr B on two separate 
occasions. They also referred Mr B to a debt advice charity. 
I can see that Moneybarn warned Mr B that there was a risk his credit file would be affected 
by his missed payments. And I can see they warned him that they may need to end the 
agreement and collect the car. Both of these warnings were appropriate given Mr Bs levels 
of arrears. As far as Ive seen, they were given in an appropriate way. I havent seen any 
evidence that they treated Mr B unfairly  Im satisfied Moneybarn did treat Mr B with 
forbearance and due consideration. 
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman