DRN-2111809
The complaint
Ms B complains that Metro Bank PLC took a payment out of her account twice.
What happened
Ms B says she paid her rent in February 2019 via a business I will call AP for just over 
£653 and received confirmation that it had been paid. She says in April 2019 the payment 
was taken out of her account again and this has caused her financial difficulties. Ms B says 
Metro ought to have explained to her what had happened when it made a mistake. She 
would like the money refunded and compensation for the time and distress Metros actions 
have had on her.
Metro says the payment didnt leave Ms Bs account in February 2019 and says it authorised 
the payment. But the merchant AP didnt collect it and so the money was re-credited to Ms 
Bs account. It says the merchant then claimed this payment in April 2019 and says Ms B will 
need to check with it why that took place. Metro doesnt accept making a mistake but 
accepts it ought to have logged a complaint reference for Ms Bs complaint when she first 
called it which would avoided the confusion when she spoke to it again some days later. It 
has offered £50 compensation for this mistake.
Ms B doesnt accept that view and says she was told she was up to date with her rent 
payments and says Metro should have told her the payment in April 2019 was for February 
2019 rent. She brought her complaint to us, but our investigator didnt think there had been a 
payment in February 2019 and didnt think AP had collected the money. The investigator 
didnt think that was Metros fault or that it was responsible for Ms B being told she was up to 
date with her rent. The investigator thought Ms B ought to have checked her account and 
didnt think Metro could have raised a dispute as the payment was never made in February 
2019. The investigator thought Metros offer of £50 compensation was fair and reasonable 
for that part of the complaint.
Ms B doesnt accept that view and says Metros actions have had a detrimental effect on her 
finances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Metro has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I realise Ms B will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly 
she feels about whats taken place. But I dont think Ms B has suffered any financial loss or 
that the rent payment was duplicated for the reasons I will explain.
I have looked at Ms Bs account statements and Metros records in order to decide on 
balance what I think is more likely to have taken place here. Having done so, I can see that 
Metro authorised the payment for the rent in February 2019, but it wasnt collected by AP 
and I can see from the account statements that the money was re-credited to Ms Bs 
account. So, I dont think Ms Bs rent was paid despite what she was told, and I cant fairly 
hold Metro responsible for that as it was up to AP to collect the payment. I make clear that 
as the money didnt leave Ms Bs account then I dont think the payment was duplicated or 
that Ms B suffered a loss of that money.
I can see from Metros records that AP collected the payment for February 2019 rent in April 
2019. I dont know why that was but think on balance it likely that AP realised it hadnt taken 
the money in February 2019. I cant fairly hold Metro responsible for that and I dont think it 
ought to have told Ms B that. If Ms B remains unhappy with how that payment was 
processed, then I think she will need to take that up with AP or her landlord.
I appreciate that Metro told Ms B that it could raise a dispute. But I dont think that would 
have been successful or that there was any point in doing so as its clear Ms B intended to 
pay her rent and that the February payment hadnt taken place when it should have.
There is no question that Metro ought to have registered Ms Bs complaint when she called 
and that would avoided the problems when she called Metro back. I can see that Metro 
accepts that was the case and has offered what I think is a fair and reasonable amount of 
£50 compensation. I think that award fairly reflects the level of the mistake and that Ms B 
didnt suffer any financial loss as a result but was caused inconvenience.
Overall, Im satisfied that the payment wasnt made twice, and that Ms B hasnt suffered any 
financial loss as a result of what took place. Im also satisfied that the problem was caused 
by AP not taking the payment when it should have rather than by a mistake by Metro. For 
those reasons I cant fairly order Metro refund this payment as Ms B would like. I will leave it 
to Ms B to decide if she wishes to accept Metros compensation offer for that part of the 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the main part of this complaint and find Metro Bank 
PLC has made a fair and reasonable offer of £50 compensation in respect of its failure to 
register Ms Bs complaint. Ms Bs acceptance of that offer would be in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman