DRN-1747172
 
The complaint
Mr G makes a number of complaints about NewDay Ltd following the registering of a default 
on his credit file.
What happened
Mr G says he held an account,with a bank I will call S,that was closed in 2013 following his 
financial difficulties. He says he entered into a repayment plan with S before paying off the 
full balance of just under £5,000 in 2013. Mr G says he didn't receive a default notice at the 
time. In early 2019 Mr G noticed that NewDay had registered a default on his credit file and 
recorded that he still owed the full balance of just under £5,000. He says he spoke to 
NewDay about this but its attitude was dismissive and told him it would not have taken over 
a debt that had been settled. Mr G says NewDay took too long to deal with his complaint and 
had no concern for the significant reduction in his credit score.
NewDay says it took over the debt in 2014 from S and can't explain why it added the default 
in 2019. It says the default was no longer showing on Mr G's credit file by May 2019 but 
accepts it should have showed that the balance was settled. NewDay has apologised for not 
dealing with all of Mr G's complaint points and offered £40 compensation which it has now 
reconsidered and increased to £85. It also says the default should have been registered in 
2013 and Mr G may have benefited from that.
Mr G had brought his complaint to us and our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought the default ought to have been registered in 2013 and Mr G had benefited from that 
but it was unclear why that didn't take place. The investigator thought the default was 
correctly in place for three months rather than six years and NewDay's compensation offer 
was fair and reasonable. The investigator explained it's not our role to punish a business and 
that NewDay replied to Mr G's complaint of the 15 March 2019 on 3 May 2019 which wasn't 
an unreasonable length of time.
Mr G doesn't accept that view and says his questions have not been answered. In summary 
he says the impact on his credit file hasn't been considered and that he should have 
received the default notice in 2013 if his account was defaulted. He also says 
NewDay's attitude was flippant and it assumed he owed it money. Mr G says it's not fair to 
say he had the benefit of the default not being recorded ,as its impact would have diminished 
over time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree that NewDay has 
made mistakes and has not treated Mr G fairly but has offered a fair and reasonable level of 
compensation. I appreciate that Mr G says this complaint is not about the award of 
compensation but about how he was treated.It is difficult to be sure about what took place in 2012 and 2013 as Mr G's account was with 
S and not NewDay. Mr G accepts he was in financial difficulties and a token repayment plan 
was agreed. I think on balance taking into account how much he owed, and the amount of 
the repayment plan that it's likely S defaulted the account. I appreciate Mr G says he didn't 
receive the default notices. But that is not something I can fairly hold NewDay responsible 
for, and that is something he will need to take up with S if he wishes.
It is also not clear that if S did default the account, why it didn't register the default on Mr G's 
credit file at the time. 
NewDay took over the account from S in 2014 but again it's not clear why it took over an 
account that had been settled in 2013. I think on balance it is likely it was given incorrect 
information from S. I have no doubt Mr G would have been concerned to see the default and 
amount owed appear on his credit file in early 2019. And would have been caused distress 
as he knew that balance had been paid some six years before. So I appreciate that Mr G 
wanted answers from NewDay. And I have no reason to doubt what Mr G says that 
NewDay was dismissive of his complaint, and said it wouldn't have taken over an account if 
there wasn't a balance owed. I am sure that would have caused Mr G frustration as he knew 
that was not correct and known that he settled the balance in 2013.
Overall I think a default ought to have registered in 2013 but for an unknown reason it was 
not. I have to consider the impact NewDay's mistake of recording a default with a balance 
owed rather than a default had on Mr G. I think it likely that for about three months a default 
was registered on Mr G's credit file with the incorrect information. I accept that it ought to 
have been registered for six years not three months. But I also accept that for the three 
months it was registered it didn't contain accurate information about the balance owed. And 
that it was NewDays responsibility to make sure the information it reported to the Credit 
Reference Agencies was accurate and correct. Mr G says his Credit score decreased 
significantly and I have no doubt that was the case. But Mr G hasn't told me that he suffered 
any financial loss as a result of the wrong information on his credit file and I think it would be 
difficult to calculate any loss or impact as I think the information reported was partially 
incorrect.
I have to consider if NewDay's compensation offer is fair and reasonable and if I require it to 
do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint. I'm satisfied the default is no 
longer on Mr G's credit file. I have explained that any issues about the default notice will 
have to be made to S. I'm satisfied that Mr G has spent some time dealing with this 
complaint and I have explained that I think NewDay was responsible for the mistake about 
the amount owed. But I'm satisfied that NewDays' compensation offer of £85 is fair and 
reasonable and takes into account that Mr G didn't suffer any financial loss. I appreciate how 
strongly Mr G feels about what's taken place, and so I wil leave it to him to decide if he 
wishes to accept that offer.
I don't think NewDay took an excessive length of time to respond to Mr G's complaint but I 
think it ought to have carried out a proper enquiry into what had taken place before replying 
to that complaint. The investigator has explained that we are not NewDay's regulator, and so 
I can't fairly comment on how it conducts its business generally or the impact its decisions 
have on other customers. 
My final decision
My final decision is that NewDay Ltd has made a fair and reasonable offer of compensation. 
Mr G's acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman