DRN-3113075
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Together Personal Finance Limited (trading as Together) didnt 
treat them fairly when they struggled with their second charge loan repayments. They ask for 
a 12-month hold on the account, all interest and fees to be waived and a reduced settlement 
amount payable in affordable instalments.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took out a second charge loan with Together in early 2018. Mr D has suffered 
from ill health since late 2018 and says he can no longer work. Mrs D has told us she 
reduced her working hours to care for Mr D and another relative. Their income has reduced 
and they cant maintain their monthly loan repayments.
Mr and Mrs D dont want to sell their home to repay the loan. They say Together didnt offer 
enough support and harassed them for payment.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties to explain why I didnt intend to uphold this 
complaint. Mr and Mrs D didnt respond. Together said it had no comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent received any comments or evidence since sending the parties my provisional 
decision. Having thought about this matter again, I dont think theres any reason to change 
the outcome or the reasoning (which was substantially as set out below) from my provisional 
decision. 
When Mr and Mrs D borrowed the money from Together they agreed to repay it. Together 
has a charge on their property: this enables it to recover the debt from the sales proceeds of 
the property, if need be. It should only take possession and sell the property as a last resort.
Mr and Mrs D borrowed about £82,000 (including lender and broker fees) from Together. At 
least some of this was for debt consolidation and Together paid about £36,000 direct to 
other lenders. Some of Mr and Mrs Ds payments were late in the first few months as they 
said they had cashflow problems, and Together offered informal payment plans. In late 
2018, less than a year into the 12-year term, their circumstances changed as Mr D had a 
sudden serious health problem.
Mrs D was the main earner. Initially, Mr and Mrs D told Together they expected Mr D to 
recover and return to work. They expected to be able to meet their contractual monthly 
payments in the near future. Together offered reduced payment plans up to late 2019. Mr 
and Mrs D made contractual monthly payments between late 2019 and mid 2020: they say 
after taking advice they used funds from Mr Ds pension. However, they couldnt repay the 
arrears. Mr and Mrs D didnt make any payments between June 2020 and early 2021. In 
early 2021, Together agreed an arrangement for Mr and Mrs D to pay £100 per month for 
January to March 2021.
When the complaint was brought to us Together had applied account management fees for 
September and October 2018. It says it only applies fees when the account is with 
collections and theres no arrangement in place. Mr and Mrs D would prefer that their 
account is managed by a different team, but I dont think its unfair for Togethers collections 
team to manage the account. I havent seen anything to suggest this team isnt able to deal 
appropriately and fairly with Mr and Mrs D. Together agreed an arrangement with Mr and 
Mrs D in early 2021 which means (if they keep to it) they wont incur management fees. I 
dont think Together acted unfairly here and I dont think its fair and reasonable to require it 
to refund management fees or have a different team deal with Mr and Mrs Ds account.
Mr D hasnt returned to work and says hell not be able to work again. He receives a 
pension. Mrs Ds income has also reduced. In January 2021 Mr and Mrs D had arrears of 
about £10,000. Mr and Mrs Ds arrears will continue to increase while theyre paying less 
than their contractual monthly payment. And as theyre paying less than the interest being 
applied to the account their balance will increase. At this point, it seems clear that Mr and 
Mrs D arent able to repay the loan over the term as initially intended.
Mr and Mrs Ds property was valued at £200,000 in 2018. Their first charge mortgage had a 
balance of about £35,000 (the information they provided to Together suggests this is now 
less). Theyd be able to repay their mortgage and loan from Together if they sell the 
property, with some equity remaining. This might not be the case if the amount of their 
secured debts increases  or if the value of their property falls.
Mr and Mrs D say their first charge mortgage lender has offered an arrangement theyre 
happy with. I should say though that Together is in a different position to the first charge 
lender. Its owed more and its account is in arrears. And it has a second charge, so if the 
property is sold it would only be entitled to recover its debt from funds remaining after the 
first charge lender has been repaid. To put it another way, Together is more likely to find it 
cant recover what its owed from the sale proceeds.
Understandably, Mr and Mrs D dont want to sell their house. Mr D told Together theyd 
taken independent financial advice and were told their only option was for Together to write 
off the balance. I dont think its fair to require Together to write off their balance. As I said, 
the purpose of the charge on the property is so that Together can recover the debt and this 
is the basis on which it offered the loan.
Mr and Mrs D have struggled with their loan repayments for nearly three years. They have 
nine years remaining. Theyve fallen into arrears and have no means to repay the arrears, or 
even to maintain monthly interest payments. Mr and Mrs D also have a first charge mortgage 
and a significant amount of unsecured debt: they told Together they arent paying anything 
towards the unsecured debt.
From what Mr and Mrs D have said, their circumstances are unlikely to improve. Together 
says short-term concessions arent the answer here, and I think thats fair.
Its not clear that Together is able to offer a suitable long-term solution here either. Its told 
us that its considered various options but none appear feasible. Mrs D says an adviser told 
her Together should capitalise the arrears and reduce the interest rate. But it wouldnt be fair 
for Together to do this if repayments were still unaffordable, as is likely to be the case from 
what Mr and Mrs D have said about their circumstances.Mr and Mrs D are in a difficult position. Their circumstances have changed and they cant 
maintain repayments. They have health problems, and are worried about what will happen to 
their house. Together must treat Mr and Mrs D fairly. This means exercising forbearance as 
suitable to their circumstances. But it doesnt mean that Together has to write off the debt or 
freeze interest. Together must also be mindful that it doesnt allow Mr and Mrs Ds arrears to 
continue to increase, putting them into a worse position. And it should maintain contact with 
Mr and Mrs D and ask them for information, to look into how it can support them. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs D found contact from Together upsetting. But I think it was right to 
contact them about their arrears and to discuss their circumstances, to understand how their 
circumstances have changed over the last three years.
Mr and Mrs D have been clear that they dont want to sell their house. They might want to 
consider taking further independent financial advice to explore what options they have to 
avoid this.
I dont think its fair to require Together to put a hold on the account for 12 months and waive 
interest. Mr and Mrs D have had a lot to deal with, but theyve had the opportunity to seek 
advice about their options, and Together has recommended they do this a number of times. 
From what Mr and Mrs D say there seems to be no real prospect of their circumstances 
improving such that the loan repayments would be affordable. So, at the end of the 12 
months, Mr and Mrs D are likely to find themselves in the same position with a loan they 
cant afford to repay without selling their house or re-financing.
Overall, I dont think that Together has treated Mr and Mrs D unfairly, and I dont intend to 
uphold this complaint. Id urge Mr and Mrs D to take advice about their options and maintain 
contact with Together about this and their circumstances. Id remind Together of its duty to 
treat Mr and Mrs D fairly.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman