DRN-3981636
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) responded to a claim on his
home emergency cover.
References to UKI include it, and its agents. And as Mr B is represented by his wife, Mrs C,
for ease, Ill refer to Mr B and Mrs Cs actions collectively as Mrs Cs.
While Im aware Mrs C may like to speak to me, I still dont consider a call necessary
as I find her emails clearly explain her position.
What happened
The details of this complaint were well known to both parties, so rather than repeat them, I
focussed on the reasons for my decision. I issued a provisional decision. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C had home emergency cover with UKI. On 20 September 2022 Mrs C reported
an issue with a toilet  it wasnt flushing. When asked if there was more than one
toilet in the property, Mrs C said there were two, but the second was only used by her
son for health reasons. UKI accepted the claim and sent an engineer out the same
day.
The engineer found a part was needed but also reported to UKI that there was a
second toilet in the property. UKI decided to decline the claim as the second toilet
meant the issue wasnt an emergency. While I accept UKIs logic, it knew of Mrs Cs
household circumstances and had already accepted the claim in light of them. If
follows I find it was unfair for UKI to decline the claim at this stage.
UKI informed Mrs C of its decision early on 21 September 2022. Mrs C contacted
UKI to explain the situation and UKI quickly agreed to proceed with the claim. I find
this was fair and reasonable, and although I accept this would have been frustrating
for Mrs C, I consider UKIs swift action to rectify the matter was enough to put things
right.
UKI needed to arrange for a return engineers visit and to secure access. This took
some time because of engineer availability but was ultimately booked on
22 September 2022 for 26 September 2022. While an unwelcome delay for Mrs C, I
find this was a reasonable timeframe given 24 and 25 September 2022 were a
weekend. And Im not persuaded UKI initially deciding to decline the claim had a
material impact because of the short time between its decision to decline and its
decision to then proceed with the claim.
The engineer was scheduled to visit between 9:00 and 12:30 on
26 September 2022. The day didnt go well. Mrs C was initially dissatisfied the
engineer didnt visit early in the morning, then there was some back and forth about
when would be convenient, and then later Mrs C had concerns about the engineers
company history. Ultimately a different engineer visited the following day and fixed
the toilet. While I accept Mrs C considers UKI let her down here, I find it was doing
what it reasonably could to accommodate her.
Mrs C would like to UKI to pay for some decorating which she says is needed
because of the issue with the toilet. However as this isnt provided for by the home
emergency cover I cant fairly and reasonably require UKI to reimburse her.
Overall, while I accept UKI could have done better at times, things dont always go
smoothly. And here, Im not persuaded the service was so poor, and the impact
enough, for compensation to be appropriate.
My provisional decision
I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
UKI didnt provide any further evidence or comments for me to consider. Mrs C provided
further evidence and comments. She said, in summary, had UKI not declined the claim on
21 September 2022, the toilet would have been fixed that day as the original engineer had
said he would return that day. And she said the need to decorate was because the original
engineer didnt turn off the water and the repair was then delayed. She also commented on
how long it took for a new visit to be made.
I reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments and issued a further provisional 
decision. I said:
As I set out in my provisional decision, I do not think it was fair for UKI to decide to 
decline the claim on 21 September 2022. Mrs C says the original engineer said, on
20 September 2022, that he would attend the following day.
I find Mrs C testimony here compelling. Her version of events has proven to be 
accurate throughout this complaint and given the engineer attended at about 19:00 
on 20 September 2022 and needed a part (which Mrs C has shown only cost about 
£20 and was widely available) I consider the engineer agreeing to come back the 
following day a likely scenario. It follows Im persuaded, on balance, had UKI not 
unfairly declined the claim when it did, the toilet would have been fixed on 
21 September 2022.
In the event, the toilet was fixed on 27 September 2022. Mrs C has explained the 
impact this time without a working toilet had on her household, which included 
disabled children. Given UKI unfairly declining the claim led to this impact, I consider 
it should compensate Mrs C. In my view £250 compensation is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Mrs C has said because the water to the toilet wasnt turned off, and because of the 
delay with the repair, water continued to seep out which ruined the wallpaper behind 
the toilet  wallpaper Mrs C has shown was placed in 2020 and was therefore fairly 
new. She has provided a photograph to show the damage, and demonstrated the 
work needed to put this right will cost around £230. Given my findings above, I intend 
to require UKI to reimburse Mrs C for this cost.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr B:- £250 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused; 
and
- £230 compensation to cover the damage to the wallpaper behind the toilet.
UKI responded to say it didnt think its decision to decline the claim caused a material delay 
because if it hadnt been, the engineer would have needed to provide a quote for approval, 
which usually takes up to 24 hours. And then it can take three to five days for parts to be 
sourced and an engineer to re-attend. 
Mrs C indicated she planned to respond but would be unable to do so by the deadline I set 
because she would be away. She further said she was waiting for additional information. I 
havent heard from Mrs C since I agreed to extend my deadline from 14 February 2023, to 
21 February 2023, on 30 January 2023.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I accept Mrs C may still intend to provide further evidence and comments, my deadline 
has passed and a request for a further extension hasnt been received. Im also satisfied I 
have enough information available to me to reach a fair outcome on this complaint. I see no 
compelling reason to delay matters, so I will now make my final decision. 
While I take on board UKIs comments, they dont change my mind. Mrs C has said the 
engineer said he would attend the following day. I still find her testimony compelling for the 
reasons I set out in my further provisional decision. While I accept a quote may have needed 
to be generated and approved, I dont find it likely given the costs involved this would have 
taken  or reasonably should have taken  very long. 
Nor do I think sourcing the part would have taken very long given its wide availability. And if, 
as Im satisfied is most likely the case, the engineer agreed to attend the following day, I find 
it most likely had UKI not unfairly declined the claim when it did, the visit would have gone 
ahead. 
Overall, for these reasons  and the reasons set out above  I remain persuaded, on 
balance, had UKI not unfairly declined the claim when it did, the toilet would have been fixed 
on 21 September 2022.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr B:
- £250 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused; and
- £230 compensation to cover the damage to the wallpaper behind the toilet.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B (or Mrs C on 
his behalf) to accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman