DRN-2700583
The complaint
Mr B complains that TSB Bank plc incorrectly reported adverse information about his 
account to credit reference agencies.
What happened
Mr B had a loan account with TSB. He says he made payments to TSB for the period from 
December 2018 to June 2019 in line with what had been agreed. Despite this he says TSB 
has recorded adverse information with credit reference agencies which stated that these 
payments were missed.
Mr B thought the problem had arisen because TSB hadnt sent him a direct debit mandate to 
complete after it had promised to do that. Instead hed made all of the payments since 
December 2018 manually, by telephoning TSB and making a card payment. He says that 
the problem with his credit file wouldnt have arisen if the direct debit had been correctly set 
up. He complained to TSB.
TSB investigated his complaint. It said the loan had been taken out in July 2017 but thered 
been a history of missed payments. It had made an arrangement with Mr B, but he hadnt 
kept to the arrangement. When Mr B started to make payments in December 2018 there was 
an arrears balance of over £2000. This meant that even though he was making payments 
each month the account was still in arrears. 
TSB said it had correctly reported the status of the account and the outstanding balance on 
the account for the period from December 2018 until the account was settled in July 2019. 
Mr B didnt agree. He complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. He said TSB had correctly recorded information 
about the status of Mr Bs account with credit reference agencies. Even though Mr B had 
made payments during the period after December 2018, the account was still in arrears and 
TSB had correctly reported the status.
Mr B didnt agree. He said that missed payments shouldnt have been reported during a 
period when he had made payments in line with his arrangement with TSB. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the records Mr B has provided, and it is the case that he made payments each 
month from December 2018 until June 2019. These payments meant that the outstanding 
balance on the loan was cleared in full. So, Mr B doesnt think its fair that TSB continued to 
record information with credit reference agencies during this period. He says it has recorded 
information which says that payments were missed during this period.
TSB is obliged to record accurate information with credit reference agencies. So, Ive looked 
at the information it recorded. Each month it recorded the status of the loan and the 
outstanding balance. The loan was in arrears in December 2018. 
I can see there was a history of missed payments on the account and previous 
arrangements had not been kept. TSBs records show, for example, that no payments were 
received in the period from March 2018 to November 2018. By November 2018 the 
information recorded with credit reference agencies showed the balance outstanding was 
just over £2300. The monthly payment under the loan agreement had been £106.64  so, 
there were arrears of more than six months. 
When Mr B made payments, after December 2018, the balance outstanding recorded with 
credit reference agencies was reduced  to take account of each payment. But even though 
he was making payments at that time which were greater than the monthly payments 
required under the loan agreement, the account was still in arrears. And, TSB was still 
reporting the number of payments in arrears. 
Mr B says that this information wouldnt have been recorded if TSB had sent him the direct 
debit form when it agreed to. Mr B has provided our service with a copy of his credit file 
report. But having looked at that report, I dont think the fact that he was making payments 
manually, after December 2018, had any bearing on the information being reported. As 
noted above, those manual payments were correctly recorded. The balance outstanding and 
the arrears status was correctly reported each month to credit reference agencies.
So, having considered everything here, Im satisfied TSB acted fairly and reasonably when it 
correctly reported information about the status of Mr Bs account during the period after 
December 2018.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman