DRN-1608092
The complaint
Mr F complains that Scottish Widows Limited didnt stop an incorrect transfer of his pension 
funds. And when the funds were returned, they reinvested them in a different proportion to 
how they disinvested them.
What happened
Mr F had a pension fund with Scottish Widows. In January 2019 Mr F decided to transfer 
£25,000 of funds from his Scottish Widows pension fund to a different pension provider (PP).
On 15 January 2019 PP sent Scottish Widows a request for a transfer of funds via 
Origo options (An electronic system used to transfer funds between pension providers). 
But PP made an error and requested £220,000 be transferred, not the £25,000 Mr F had 
authorised.
The following day Mr F noticed the incorrect amount of funds had been requested from 
Scottish Widows. So, he called Scottish Widows to try and stop the transfer, or at least most 
of it. Scottish Widows told Mr F they would stop the transfer. They said Mr F would have to 
speak to PP to re-submit a request for the correct amount.
However, Scottish Widows say the information they gave was incorrect. As the funds had 
already been sent to PP when Mr F called. So, they couldnt stop the transaction. 
Scottish Widows told Mr F that in order to rectify the issue they would accept the returned 
funds and reverse the transfer out transaction. So, his fund would be back into the same 
position as if the transfer had never taken place.
  
Mr Fs funds were returned to Scottish Widows on 23 January 2019. But they werent 
reinvested in the same proportions as they had been disinvested. 
Mr F complained to Scottish Widows. He said they had given him incorrect information that 
the transaction could be stopped. And they also said they would put him back into the same 
position as if the transfer had never happened. But they didnt. 
Scottish Widows responded to Mr Fs complaint. They acknowledged that they had given 
Mr F incorrect information. They said when Mr F first called, the funds had already been 
transferred. And a more thorough check would have confirmed at the time that the funds 
were already sent. 
Scottish Widows also said the excessive disinvestment was an error made by PP. So, they 
reapplied Mr Fs funds on the date they were received using his existing fund split. And it 
would be for PP to compensate Mr F if this meant he suffered a loss. Scottish Widows said 
they would provide Mr F with a profit and loss calculation to send to PP if the error had led to 
a loss. Due to the incorrect information they had provided Mr F, Scottish Widows offered to 
pay him £100 to compensate him for the inconvenience this caused. 
Scottish Widows wrote to Mr F in late February 2019. They said following the funds being 
reinvested, Mr Fs fund was valued at £242,584.33. They had completed a calculation to find 
the value of what Mr Fs fund would have been had the disinvestment not happened which 
was £242,312.01. So, Scottish Widows said Mr F had benefited from the disinvestment 
taking place by £272.32.
Mr F wasnt happy with Scottish Widows responses and so brought his complaint to us. 
He said Scottish Widows actions had caused him stress and inconvenience. And, because 
they reinvested the funds in different proportions, the investments are likely to grow in a 
different way to what they would have done. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He said Scottish Widows had acted on 
instructions sent by PP. So, he couldnt fault them for sending the incorrect amount of funds 
to PP. He acknowledged that Scottish Widows could have handled things better. But he said 
the offer of compensation for the incorrect information theyd given was fair. Our investigator 
also said he could see there were changes in Mr Fs investments. But as it wasnt Scottish 
Widows that caused the error, he didnt ask them to do anything more.
Mr F disagreed with our investigators opinion. He said Scottish Widows had a choice to 
reinvest his funds in the same way they disinvested them, and they chose not to. Mr F 
doesnt think that was fair. As Mr F disagreed with our investigators view, the case has been 
passed onto me for a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Scottish Widows acted on a request sent to them by PP. And it was PP that requested the 
incorrect level of funds from Scottish Widows. So, I think it was reasonable for Scottish 
Widows to say it shouldnt bear any financial costs to rectify the error. 
But Scottish Widows did make several errors of their own. They originally told Mr F they 
would stop the transaction before the funds left his account. But they later realised they 
couldnt stop the transaction, as the funds had already been sent. So, Scottish Widows said 
they would reverse the transfer as if it had never happened. But they didnt do that either. 
So, I can appreciate it must have been upsetting and inconvenient for Mr F to be told one 
thing and then another. 
However, Scottish Widows did offer to help Mr F rectify the error in other ways. They agreed 
to accept all of the funds back into Mr Fs pension fund. And, they said they would carry out 
a profit and loss calculation see if Mr F was worse off as a result of the erroneous transfer. 
If the calculation showed a loss, Mr F could have then attempted to recoup his losses from 
PP.
But Mr F thinks Scottish Widows should have reinvested the funds in exactly the same 
proportions as they disinvested them and they chose not to. He says his funds will perform 
differently now to how they would have done had the transaction never occurred. 
So, the issue to determine here is whether Scottish Widows acted fairly when they 
reinvested Mr Fs funds in the proportions they did.   
Scottish Widows say their system automatically disinvested the funds by disinvesting the last 
units added to the funds, first. And when funds are transferred in, they invest them using the 
existing fund split.In Mr Fs case that meant the funds were disinvested in slightly different proportions to how 
they were reinvested. So, I can appreciate Mr Fs point. Given that the funds may all perform 
differently in the future. But its for Scottish Widows to decide its own policies on how it 
operates - as long as those policies are fair and dont put their clients at a disadvantage. 
During the time that the funds were disinvested, there was a drop in the value of some of 
Mr Fs funds. By being disinvested, Mr F was shielded from that loss. But as soon as there 
was a change in prices of the funds, there was likely to be a difference in the overall total 
balance of the funds, whichever way Scottish Widows reinvested it. I say that because some 
of the fund unit prices went up and others went down. So, reinvesting the same amount of 
money couldnt have purchased the identical number of units that had been held in each 
fund before the withdrawal. 
Scottish Widows reinvested the funds in a fund split that Mr F had previously chosen, which I 
think was reasonable. And it says on the day the funds were reinvested, Mr F was better off 
by £272.32 because of the disinvestment compared to what the fund value would have been 
if the transaction had never happened. So, I dont think its clear Scottish Widows policies put 
Mr F at a disadvantage. 
Mr F is still concerned Scottish Widows calculation doesnt take into account future losses. 
But its impossible to say if there will be any future gains or losses due to the change in the 
number of units in each fund. And the change in the number of units Mr F held in each fund 
was a consequence the funds being disinvested for some time as a result of PPs error. So, I 
dont think it wouldnt be fair to say Scottish Widows should bear the costs of addressing or 
compensating any future losses. But Mr F may wish to pursue a compliant against PP if he 
feels he hasnt been sufficiently compensated for their error. 
In its final response Scottish Widows acknowledged they gave Mr F incorrect information 
and they offered him £100 compensation in recognition of the upset that caused. Whilst I 
appreciate Mr F feels £100 isnt sufficient, I think it fairly recognises the inconvenience and 
upset Scottish Widows caused Mr F by giving him false information. And its broadly in line 
with the level of award our service would suggest. So, I wont ask Scottish Widows to 
increase it. 
Overall, I think Scottish Widows actions to redress the errors they made have been 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. So, I wont ask them to do anything 
more. 
My final decision
Scottish Widows have offered to pay Mr F £100 in recognition of the false expectations they 
gave Mr F. I conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman