DRN-3101900
The complaint
Mrs M complains as beneficiary of her late husband Mr Ms life assurance policy. Shes 
unhappy that PMGI Limited arranged new terms for the policy. Mrs M believes Mr M wasnt 
told about the changes.
What happened
PMGI Limited have given us copies of emails and letters from 2014 and 2015 that show the 
key change to the terms of Mr Ms policy happened at that point. The policy had originally 
been set to pay a fixed amount if Mr or Mrs M died before Mr M turned 65. But the change 
meant the amount paid out would halve once Mr M turned 60. 
This was a group policy run by Mr Ms employer. The evidence Ive seen shows the 
employer was aware of the change at the time. And I can see the employer discussed 
sending out a letter to explain the change to people whod signed up to the policy.
PMGI Limited have told us their records of those letters were damaged in a flood some 
years ago. Theyve been able to show us copies of two letters that were sent to other users 
of the group policy. But they dont have a copy of what was sent to Mr M specifically.
The sample letters  dated September 2015  show PMGI Limited told users of to the policy 
that the premium was going up  by what looks to be around £9 per month. And it explained 
the amount paid in a retired persons claim  like Mr Ms  would halve after they turned 60. 
Mrs M says theres no copy of this letter in Mr Ms records, so she questions that PMGI 
Limited ever sent it. Shes told us Mr M had suffered a heart attack in 2015, and would have 
done more to secure the full value the policy had previously offered for his family. 
The matter came to us for investigation. Our investigator noted there wasnt firm evidence 
either way that a letter was or wasnt sent at the time. But she also noted that if Mr M had 
been more aware of the changes to the policy, he may not have been able to make up the 
shortfall given his health conditions. Our investigator decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Mrs M asked for the case to be considered again, although I cant see she had any new 
evidence for us to consider. So the complaint has now come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I can appreciate Mrs M will be disappointed, Ive decided I cant uphold her complaint 
about PMGI Limited, for similar reasons to our investigator. Ill explain why.
I dont have definite evidence either way on some key points of this complaint. I can see 
PMGI Limited sent out some letters to members of this policy. There are copies of a couple 
that look to have been written in September 2015. And therere emails between PMGI 
Limited and the employer where it seems there was a focus on making sure those letters 
were sent out at that time. 
So I find it highly likely at least a few letters were sent. And if a few were sent, its possible 
they all were sent as intended. 
But I also note Mr M didnt have a copy in his records. So he may not have received the 
letter. Or he may not have kept it. But I cant say either of those possibilities was caused by 
some failing by PMGI Limited. So I dont have enough here to uphold a complaint about 
them not telling Mr M about the change. 
I also note the letter explained about a fairly significant increase in the premium for the 
policy. Mrs Ms said Mr M was giving his finances a lot of attention at the time. Im surprised 
he didnt question the rise in premium more, if he hadnt received the letter explaining it. 
Perhaps more significantly here is that this isnt a case where Mr M had an option to keep 
the old terms for his policy, where the amount received wouldnt halve after he turned 60. 
The change was for the trustees of the policy to agree, not Mr M individually. His choice 
would have either been to accept the new terms, or end the cover. 
It's not clear Mr M could have replaced the cover here with an option that provided the 
previous level of cover for an affordable premium. Its possible his health conditions in 2015 
could have made a higher level of cover unaffordable. So  even if there was enough 
evidence to conclude PMGI Limited had done something wrong  the mistake may not have 
greatly changed the situation for Mr and Mrs M. 
My final decision
With the above in mind, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman