DRN-2820398
The complaint
Mr P complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender shouldnt have provided him 
with the loans it did.
What happened
Mr P was provided with six loans by Mr Lender between March 2017 and December 2019. 
The table below provides further information on the loans.
Loan Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 02/03/2017 26/05/2017 3 £200.00
2 15/06/2017 22/12/2017 6 £750.00
3 03/01/2018 23/03/2018 3 £400.00
4 05/02/2019 25/04/2019 3 £200.00
5 17/05/2019 29/11/2019 6 £600.00
6 11/12/2019 30/11/2020 12 £1,100.00
Mr P says that he was provided with several loans often within a short time period of each 
other. He says he had other payday loans at the time and that his concerns about these had 
been upheld.
Mr Lender says that before the loans were provided it carried out checks in line with its 
responsible lending policies and regulatory guidelines. Its checks included an income and 
expenditure assessment, credit checks, employment verification and loan payment history. It 
says based on its checks the loans were affordable. In its final response letter, Mr Lender 
offered Mr P a £25 voucher as a gesture of goodwill and it has confirmed that this is no 
longer available.
Our adjudicator noted the gap between loan 3 being repaid and loan 4 being taken out and 
said that this was enough to say that a new lending chain started with loan 4. He didnt think 
he had enough evidence to say it was wrong that loans 1 to 5 were provided but he didnt 
think loan 6 should have been lent. He said this because by loan 6 he thought proportionate 
checks would have shown Mr P was struggling to manage his money. He noted that Mr P 
had several other short term loans outstanding at the time and that Mr P was repaying his 
debts through a debt management plan. 
Mr Lender didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It said that loan 6 was the third loan in the 
lending chain and that it wouldnt have been proportionate to request bank statements at this 
stage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr P could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr P could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P was provided with the first loan by Mr Lender in March 2017. At this time, he declared a 
monthly income of £2,700 and expenses of £2,251. As this was Mr Ps first loan and noting 
the repayment amounts compared to his monthly income and the reason Mr P gave for the 
loan, I think the checks carried out were proportionate. As these suggested the loan was 
affordable, I do not find it unreasonable that this loan was provided.
Mr P repaid the first loan in line with the repayment schedule and took out a second loan 
around three weeks later. This loan was for a higher amount, £750 repayable over six 
monthly instalments. Before the loan was provided Mr P confirmed he wasnt in an individual 
voluntary arrangement or debt management plan and he provided information about his 
income and expenses. Mr Ps declared income had increased to £3,000 resulting in a higher 
disposable income of £1,000. The highest repayment amount was just over £370. Having considered the repayment amounts compared to Mr Ps income and that this was Mr Ps 
second loan and he had repaid the first, I find the checks carried out were reasonable. As 
these suggested the loan was affordable I do not find I can say it was wrong for Mr Lender to 
provide this loan.
Mr P repaid loan 2 and took out a third loan with Mr Lender less than two weeks later. This 
loan was for £400 repayable over three monthly instalments. Mr P included information 
about the amounts he was paying towards other credit commitments including other short 
term loans. At this stage, I think it was too early to say that a pattern of borrowing had 
emerged showing a dependence on this type of borrowing. And as this was still only the third 
loan, was for a lower amount than the second, and considering the repayment amounts 
compared to Mr Ps income, I find the checks carried out at this stage were proportionate. As 
these didnt raise concerns about the affordability of the loan, I do not find I can say this loan 
shouldnt have been provided.
Had Mr P continued to borrow from Mr Lender shortly after repaying loan 3 I would have 
expected further checks to have taken place. However, there was then a break in Mr Ps 
borrowing. Mr P repaid loan 3 in March 2018 and didnt take out another loan with Mr Lender 
until February 2019. Given the length of time that Mr P wasnt borrowing from Mr Lender, I 
think it reasonable to accept that loan 4 was the start of a new lending chain.
Loan 4 was for £200 repayable over three monthly instalments. As this was the first loan in 
the lending chain and noting Mr Ps income compared to the repayment amounts I think the 
information gathered before the loan was provided was proportionate. As this didnt raise 
concerns about the affordability of the loan, I find it reasonable this loan was provided.
Mr P repaid loan 4 in line with the repayment schedule and took out another loan three 
weeks later. Loan 5 was for £600 repayable over six monthly instalments with the highest 
repayment amount being just under £280. Mr P was asked about his other credit 
commitments including short term loans and this was included in the assessment of his 
expenses. At this stage, given Mr Ps repayment history on the previous loan and as this 
was only the second loan in the lending chain, I think the checks were proportionate and as 
these didnt raise concerns about the affordability of the loan, I do not find I have enough to 
say this loan shouldnt have been provided.
Mr P repaid loan 5 and took out a much larger loan a couple of weeks later. Loan 6 was for 
£1,100 repayable over 12 monthly instalments. Given the longer term of this loan, the 
highest monthly repayment amount was around £233. However, given the size and duration 
of the loan, I think that it would have been reasonable to carry out further checks to ensure 
the loan was sustainably affordable.
Mr Lender has explained that Mr Ps income was verified before the loan was provided and 
the amount declared of £3,650 was accepted. Mr Lender says it also used external 
databases to assess the affordability information and asked Mr P about his other credit 
commitments including other payday loans. The affordability assessment suggested Mr P 
had a monthly disposable income of £600 and so, the repayments appeared affordable. 
However, I think further checks should have taken place to ensure a full understanding of 
Mr Ps financial situation at the time. Had this happened, Mr Lender would have realised that 
Mr P had several loans outstanding at the time with other short term loan providers which 
raises concerns that he was struggling to manage his money. While I note that in signing the 
loan agreement Mr P confirmed he didnt have a debt management plan in place I think 
further checks would have shown that he was paying certain of his commitments through a 
plan. Overall, while l note Mr Lenders comments, in this case given the size and duration loan 6 
and the other information available I think further checks should have been carried out and 
had these happened I think Mr Lender should have realised that lending to Mr P at this time 
wasnt sustainably affordable.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr P after loan 5, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr P may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr P in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr P would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Based on the above, I find that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender should:
refund all interest and charges that Mr P paid on loan 6 along with interest of 8% 
simple a year from the date of payment to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information about loan 6 from Mr Ps credit file/
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loan 6. PDL Finance Limited 
trading as Mr Lender should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman