DRN-2773875
The complaint
Mr Ss complaint is about the level of compensation offered to him by Barclays for a mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr S was sold a PPI policy when he took out a mortgage with Barclays in 1988. In 2016     
Mr S complained to Barclays about the sale of the policy.
In February 2016 Barclays wrote to Mr S. In its letter it stated that it held no records of Mr S 
holding a PPI policy on the mortgage from 1988. It invited Mr S to contact Barclays if he held 
any documentary evidence that he was sold a PPI policy.
In August 2019 Mr S wrote to Barclays enclosing several documents. Amongst these 
documents were two Barclays current account statements from January and November 
1989 showing Mr Ss mortgage payment, life insurance policy premium and premiums of £30 
for a mortgage care policy which was Barclays version of a PPI policy.
In October 2019 Barclays replied to Mr S and re-sent him a copy of the 2016 letter stating it 
had no record of a PPI policy.
Mr S replied to say he had sent evidence of the PPI. He pointed out he had sent the 
documents by recorded delivery and had a record of Barclays receiving the documents on 
29 August 2019.
In November 2019 Barclays wrote again to say it would investigate the complaint.
But in January 2020 Barclays wrote again to Mr S again referring him to the 2016 letter and 
saying it would reinvestigate if new evidence was provided.
Following this services involvement Barclays upheld Mr Ss complaint and wrote to him on 
12 August 2020. In its letter Barclays offered to repay £360 PPI premiums. It said Mr Ss 
policy started on 11 January 1989 and ended on 24 November 1989. Barclays also added 
compensatory interest of £798.81 (net of tax). So Barclays paid Mr S a total of £1,158.81.
Mr S remained unhappy with Barclays offer. He said Barclays had simply refunded the 
premiums he paid between the dates on the statements he supplied. Mr S says he paid the 
PPI premiums for many years after November 1989.
On 21 September Barclays wrote again to Mr S stating it had no evidence that the PPI ran 
beyond November 1989. Barclays told Mr S it would investigate further if he could show 
further bank statements that showed payments beyond November 1989. Barclays told Mr S 
to approach his local branch to obtain these. Barclays also offered and paid Mr S £50 for the 
poor standard of customer service he had received.
An adjudicator from this service found that Barclays had acted fairly in refunding 12 
premiums of £30 plus compensatory interest, but asked Barclays to pay Mr S a further £100 
compensation for the poor service he had received.
Barclays did not agree to pay a further £100 but did offer a further £50 instead.
Mr S rejected this offer calling it derisive and ridiculous, so the complaint was been passed 
to me.
In March 2021 I issued my provisional findings which differed from the adjudicator. In my 
provisional findings I wrote:
Barclays has offered to refund PPI premiums on this account from January 1989 to 
November 1989. Its based this offer on the two statements  supplied by Mr S that show PPI 
premiums. Barclays has said it has no evidence Mr S was charged PPI outside of these 
dates.
I dont think this approach is fair. Barclays should know this service expects a business to 
make reasonable assumptions when there is missing data. And I dont think its reasonable 
to assume PPI was only present on the account where Mr S is able to produce statements 
showing PPI premiums.
The events here date back over 30 years, and just as I wouldnt expect Barclays to hold 
detailed records for that long, equally I dont think it reasonable to expect Mr S to have 
either.
Barclays has told us that the first direct debit for the PPI would have been noted as such on  
Mr Ss bank statement.
Looking at the statement for January 1989 I cant see any such note. So I think its fair to 
assume the first premium was paid in December 1988 which coincides with the start of      
Mr Ss mortgage.
There is no documentary evidence to show when the PPI ended. Barclays say there is no 
evidence to show Mr S paid premiums beyond November 1989. But equally Ive seen no 
documentary evidence to show he didnt.
Mr S says he may have been paying PPI premiums until as late as 2006. But Barclays has 
shown copies of Mr S current accounts from 1998 which dont show any PPI premiums. So I 
think its reasonable to assume the policy had ended by then.
I note that in January 1991 Mr S made significant changes to his mortgage arrangements. In 
my view he would likely have reviewed his insurance needs at that time.
So in the absence of any other documentary evidence, I think it would be fair and reasonable 
to assume the policy ended at this time.
So I am intending to direct Barclays to assume Mr S paid the first PPI premium of £30 in 
December 1988 and the last PPI premium of £30 in January 1991.
Ive next thought about Barclays handling of the complaint itself.
Barclays responded to Mr Ss complaint in 2016 to say it could not find evidence of a PPI 
policy. At this stage Mr S had not shown Barclays the bank statements indicating he had 
paid premiums for PPI.
In 2019 Mr S located and sent the bank statements showing he paid PPI premiums. 
However Barclays referred Mr S back to its letter from 2016 on two occasions despite Mr S 
sending the statements by recorded delivery and telephoning Barclays to check it had 
received them.
I also have concerns about the content of Barclays letter dated 12 August 2020. As Ive 
already stated Barclays should be aware this service expects a business to make 
reasonable assumptions where there is missing data. In this case Barclays failed to do so 
and offered only the PPI premiums that Mr S could evidence with the statements he found. I 
also note Barclays stated, Your policy started on 11 January 1989 and ended 24 November 
1989 . But Barclays does not know the policy ended on 24 November 1989.Im also concerned that Barclays told Mr S to obtain bank statements from his local branch 
to show he was paying PPI when it was aware the branch where Mr S had held his account 
was shut, and it was itself unable to locate Mr Ss current account records.
I think Barclays errors in this case would have caused Mr S a lot of upset and 
inconvenience. I think he should be compensated for this and I intend to award Mr S a total 
of £200 for the poor service he received, (Mr S has already received £50).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr S and Barclays have now responded to my provisional findings.
Both parties have accepted my provisional findings so I see no reason to depart from the 
findings I set out in my provisional decision in March 2021. 
Putting things right
Barclays should:
Refund all the premiums Mr S paid towards the PPI policy. In doing so it should assume the 
premiums to be £30 per month with the first premium paid in December 1988 and the final 
premium paid in January 1991, and
Pay 8% simple interest (15% before April 1993) on these premiums, calculated from when 
each payment was made to when its refunded
Barclays can deduct from the total the sum of £1,158.81 it has already paid Mr S.
In addition to the above Barclays should pay Mr S a further £150 to compensate him for the 
trouble and upset its errors caused him to experience. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out in this decision I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to pay Mr S compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman