DRN-1146514
 
The complaint
Mr R complains about the customer service he's received from Bank of Scotland plc, trading 
as Halifax. He had problems using his account cards and had transactions declined. Mr R 
received a new debit card but said the account number and sort code on it wasn't his, which 
he thought was a security breach.  
What happened
In May 2019, Mr R experienced problems when trying to make payments using both his 
debit and credit cards with Halifax. The transactions were declined and this caused him 
embarrassment.
He also received a replacement debit card which he said had the account details of another 
customer.
Mr R complained as he felt this was a breach of data protection. But he thought Halifax was 
dismissive and didnt take the situation seriously. He spent time trying to resolve the situation 
both about the issue of why his cards were being declined and the card hed received, but he 
felt he was treated badly and that he'd been spoken to in a condescending manner.
Halifax said that it couldnt find any problems with Mr Rs debit card that would cause it to be 
declined, as it was active and there were no restrictions on it. Halifax didnt agree that the 
service it had provided was unacceptable. It said it would need the details of the card Mr R 
had received with the account information of another customer so that it could look into this, 
however Mr R hadnt wanted to give this information over the phone. 
One of our investigators looked at Mr Rs complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that the debit card Mr R received had been for his current account in his sole name, and 
was sent as his previous one had expired. She listened to the recordings of the calls 
between Halifax and Mr R but didnt agree that hed been provided with a poor service, as 
she felt it had tried to help with his complaint and the problems he was having with his 
account cards. The investigator said that Halifax didnt have any known issues that couldve 
been the cause of the times that Mr Rs card transactions had been declined, but she said 
that she understood that this had now been resolved. 
Mr R didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for his complaint to be reviewed. He 
said that Halifax had provided appalling customer service and questioned why he wouldve 
thought the debit card he received was for another account when he hadn't requested it.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I can appreciate Mr Rs strength of feeling about the experience hes had with his Halifax 
accounts, particularly when he found payments he wanted to make being declined and as he 
believed hed received a debit card with someone elses account details on.
Ive taken into account all that hes said, and Ive listened to the conversations he had with 
Halifax about what had happened and his concerns. And these suggest that to me that 
Halifax did look to help Mr R. 
I say this because it tried find out what had caused his card transactions to be declined at 
the time, but there were no blocks or issues noted on the cards which were showing as 
being active. Halifax made the suggestion that the debit card couldve been damaged in 
some way which may have caused a problem, and gave Mr R the details of how he could 
request a replacement card if he wished. In the circumstances, I think this was a reasonable 
response, when it couldnt be certain of the cause of the issue with the cards.
Its unfortunate that, at about the same time as Mr R was experiencing this problem with his 
debit card for his joint account, he received a replacement card for his other account. I 
understand that this is the account he uses for his direct debits and that he doesn't use the 
account's debit card. 
I can appreciate how this caused confusion when he didnt specifically request this card, and 
this led him to believe that someone elses account details were on a card in his name. The 
new card was automatically issued as the previous one was about to expire. And as this type 
of account is one that operates with a debit card, I dont think it was unusual for Halifax to 
have sent this to Mr R at this time, despite him not specifically asking for a new card.
Although I can understand Mr Rs concerns about security and why he didnt wish to provide 
the card details to Halifax when asked in the phone calls, I do feel this may have resolved 
the situation sooner for him as its likely that Halifax couldve explained which account that 
card was for. 
Overall, I think that Halifax responded fairly and appropriately to Mr Rs concerns and 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman