DRN-1970815
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed its business account 
without explaining why. C is represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr V. It asks that 
Barclays re-instates its account and pays compensation for its losses.
What happened
In October 2019 Barclays gave notice to close Cs business account. Mr V says Barclays 
didnt explain why it closed the account or give him a chance to appeal its decision. He says 
it didnt allow him enough time to open a new account, and without a bank account C was 
unable to trade. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said Barclays 
was entitled to close Cs account and gave the required notice before doing so. It didnt have 
to give a reason.
C didnt agree. Mr V said he wouldnt have utilised a £25,000 overdraft facility for C if hed 
known Barclays would close its account. It now has a debt and cant trade to repay it. He 
says C hasnt applied for an account elsewhere because he expects to be declined due to 
Barclays closing the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Cs business account say that Barclays can close the account 
by giving two months notice. It doesnt have to give a reason. Barclays gave notice to C in 
October 2019 and closed the account in February 2020. 
Here, Barclays gave the required notice to C, and it was more than three months later before 
its account was closed. The purpose of giving notice is to allow customers to make other 
arrangements, and I think Barclays gave C reasonable time to do this. 
Mr V says he didnt apply to other providers for an account for C as he thought its 
applications would be unsuccessful. I dont think I can fairly say Barclays was responsible for 
this decision.
I understand that closure of Cs account caused difficulties. But banks are, in general, 
entitled to make a commercial decision about whether to offer, or continue to provide, 
services to a customer. I think Barclays acted in accordance with the terms of Cs account 
and allowed C reasonable time to make other banking arrangements. I dont think its fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances to require Barclays to re-instate Cs account or pay 
compensation to C for any loss due to not having a bank account. 
Barclays offered £50 for an error in dealing with Cs complaint. I leave it to Mr V to decide 
whether to accept this.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman