DRN-4392048
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the early repayment charge (ERC) he incurred when he repaid 
his buy to let (BTL) mortgage with Santander UK Plc. He said the amount charged is 
financial exploitation and profiteering at its dirtiest and flies in the face of the regulators 
guidance.
What happened
Mr C had an existing BTL mortgage with Santander, and in 2021 he applied online to move it 
onto a new preferential interest rate. The mortgage offer dated 2 August 2021 indicated the 
outstanding balance was around £221,000, it had a term of 16 years and 6 months, and the 
mortgage was held on an interest only basis. The rate was fixed at 1.69% until 2 November 
2023, with an ERC being due if the mortgage was repaid before that date. That gave a 
contractual payment of around £310 a month.
In 2022 Mr C complained to Santander about the ERC. Santander didnt uphold the 
complaint and so Mr C referred the matter to us.
In the meantime Mr C made lump sum payments of around £22,100 in December 2022 and 
£19,900 in January 2023 (without incurring any ERCs), and then he redeemed the remaining 
mortgage of around £179,000 when he sold the property for £465,000 in January 2023 
incurring an ERC of around £5,400.
One of our Investigators looked at the complaint and didnt uphold it.
Mr C didnt agree, and as an agreement couldnt be reached the case was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. This 
service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What this 
means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions or 
take directions on how a complaint will be looked at.
In resolving complaints, we determine whats fair and reasonable in the individual 
circumstances of the case  taking into account relevant law and regulations, as well as 
regulatory rules and guidance and good industry practice.
Mr C has made specific reference to the reasonableness test in the Unfair Contract Terms 
Act 1977. That says, under point 1:
In relation to a contract term, the requirement of reasonableness for the purposes of this 
Part of this Act, section 3 of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 and section 3 of the 
Misrepresentation Act (Northern Ireland) 1967 is that the term shall have been a fair and 
reasonable one to be included having regard to the circumstances which were, or ought 
reasonably to have been, known to or in the contemplation of the parties when the contract 
was made.
The key part of that is having regard to the circumstances which were, or ought reasonably 
to have been, known to or in the contemplation of the parties when the contract was 
made. [my emphasis]
Santander set the ERC when the contract was made, so anything that happened after that - 
such as the exact point Mr C chose to redeem his mortgage and why, and the level of 
interest rates at that time - wasnt known (or ought reasonably to have been known) when 
the contract was made. 
Although I take relevant law into account, specific findings of a breach of the Unfair Contract 
Terms Act 1977 are more a matter for the courts than they are for me. I think the crucial 
question is whether Santander acted fairly when it set the ERC at the level it did and then 
required Mr C to pay that sum when he repaid his BTL mortgage. 
Mr C has also quoted from PRIN 2.1 The Principles from the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. The screen shot Mr C has provided isnt the Principles as they stood at the time 
in question as Mr C took out this rate in 2021 and redeemed the mortgage in January 2023, 
but the screen shot Mr C provided is from the Principles following them being updated in July 
2023. PRIN 1 and PRIN 6 were in place at the time in question, but PRIN 12 didnt exist until 
July 2023 and so I cant take that one into account.
Whilst I wont mention PRIN 1 and 6 specifically in the remainder of this decision I can 
reassure Mr C that they are always something I keep in mind when deciding complaints like 
his as they are the underlying Principles at the heart of what we do  that is, decide what is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a complaint.
Mr C has said he was vulnerable, given he had no income and the property wasnt attracting 
the interest of potential tenants. Hes said letting agents told him it wasnt the sort of property 
people were wanting to rent at that time, due to its location and lack of outside space. 
I can confirm that is something Ive taken into account when deciding this case, however I 
would say that whether or not the ERC was waived wouldnt have altered the fact Mr C 
couldnt rent the property and had no income at the time. Whilst it would have given him 
around £5,400 more upon the sale, it wasnt the case that the property was sold in negative 
equity (or there was only a small amount of equity) and it was Mr Cs residential property.
It may have been that Santander would have looked at this differently if, perhaps, this was a 
residential house sale where the borrower could no longer afford their mortgage, and there 
being insufficient equity to cover the ERC once the mortgage debt was repaid, so it could be 
a barrier to the customer being able to sell a property they can no longer afford to live in. 
Santander wouldnt be expected to take the same approach for a customer deciding to sell 
an investment property as they were struggling to rent it out at the price they wanted.
Whilst there was obviously a financial impact on Mr W, he wasnt in the situation where this 
was his residential property and he was at risk of having his home repossessed or be left in 
negative equity due to the addition of an ERC.
Were not the regulator, and Ive no power under our terms of reference to comment on, or 
otherwise determine, how financial businesses operate in general terms. I have to consider this complaint by reference to Mr Cs particular situation. When I do that, Im satisfied the 
terms of the ERC were set out in the mortgage offer in a way that should have been readily 
understandable to Mr C; certainly, the information about the ERC was set out in a manner 
that met the regulators requirements. So Im persuaded Mr C knew  or at least should have 
known  how much hed have to pay if he repaid the mortgage before 2 November 2023. 
That said, I need to decide what is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of the 
complaint. The rules we operate under say that in doing that I must take into account, 
amongst other things, the relevant rules and regulations. The relevant rules for residential 
mortgages are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Mortgages and Home Finance: 
Conduct of Business sourcebook (MCOB). As this was a BTL mortgage it wasnt subject to 
those rules and guidance, however they are a good indication of what is good industry 
practice for ERCs so I will make reference to those rules and guidance here.
MCOB includes provisions about ERCs. In summary, they say that an ERC must be able to 
be expressed as a cash value and must be a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs resulting 
from early termination of the mortgage. But a lender can choose how it calculates an ERC 
and can calculate the same level of ERC across a group of mortgages of similar type, rather 
than for individual loans. Santander is entitled to set an ERC based not on the actual cost to 
it of Mr C ending his own mortgage early, but on a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs of 
early termination of a group of mortgages of similar type. 
Lenders generally raise money to offer preferential rates for their mortgage customers on the 
wholesale money markets. Theres a cost to that, and its generally fixed in advance. But the 
lender expects to receive a return to outweigh those costs. If a mortgage ends early, it 
doesnt get back all the returns it expected, and so doesnt make back the costs in raising 
the funds to offer that preferential rate. 
Its complex and onerous for lenders to calculate individual losses as and when individual 
customers decide to terminate their contracts early. And it isnt possible to estimate, for any 
given individual, when or if they might do so. So Santander is allowed to project how many 
customers, on average, are likely to terminate early and, on average, at what point theyre 
likely to do so, and to apportion that cost across the mortgages in the group. For some 
individual mortgages that will end up being an over-calculation, and for others it will be an 
under-calculation. But thats allowed; Santander doesnt have to refund the difference, but 
equally it doesnt tell a consumer to pay the difference if it goes the other way. 
The ERC is expressed as a cash value in the mortgage offer. So Ive considered whether the 
ERC was a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost of the mortgage being repaid early. 
Santander has provided us with evidence to show how it pre-estimated the costs of this 
group of mortgages being repaid early. Under our rules I am allowed to accept evidence in 
confidence if it is appropriate to do so. I am satisfied that the information Santander has 
provided is commercially sensitive and I have good reason to accept that in confidence and 
so I wont be disclosing it to Mr C. 
The information from Santander shows that it takes into account a number of factors when 
estimating the cost of a fixed rate mortgage being repaid. It has provided a breakdown of the 
figures it used and an explanation for the calculations and estimates it has made. It shows 
that the ERC reflects its costs of setting up and servicing the mortgage, the cost of the 
capital it has to set aside, the cost of funding the fixed rate, the cost of financial instruments 
that could be used to protect its position (and unwinding those) and its future losses. Ive 
looked carefully at what Santander has said and I consider it is a fair way to calculate the 
ERC.I appreciate that Mr C was getting near to the end of the tie-in period (redeeming the 
mortgage around ten months before it was due to end) and that the amount of the ERC 
appears out of proportion to the number of payments that were remaining under the fixed 
rate. But Im afraid that isnt a factor in how the ERC is calculated, nor is the actual cost to 
Santander of this individual mortgage being repaid at the exact time it was. 
MCOB only requires Santander to make a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost to it of the 
mortgage being repaid early across a range of similar mortgages. I consider that is what it 
has done. And based on the information presented to me I consider it was reasonable for it 
to charge the ERC it did.
Ive sympathy for the position Mr C found himself in, but his situation wasnt unusual. Many 
customers have to sell their properties (albeit for other equally valid reasons) and incur an 
ERC when doing so. It would be highly unfair for Santander to treat Mr C any differently from 
how it would treat any other customer that sold their property whilst in an ERC tie-in period.
There was no reason for Santander to reduce  or waive  the ERC because it hadnt done 
anything wrong. I can only uphold a complaint and order compensation if a business has 
done something wrong. As Im satisfied Santander did nothing wrong then there are no 
grounds for me to order it to refund the ERC, either in full or in part.
Mr C has said that Santander could now re-lend his mortgage amount out at a higher rate, 
so he thinks Santander wouldnt make a loss. But Santander couldnt have known, in 2021, 
that Mr C would choose to end his mortgage early, when he would choose to do so, and that 
interest rates would be at the level they are now at the point Mr C chose to end the 
mortgage. Equally, things could have gone a different way, with Mr C choosing to end his 
mortgage at a point preferential interest rates were lower than when he took out his 
mortgage, and so any new mortgage lending Santander granted would be at a lower rate 
than Mr C was paying. In that instance Santander wouldnt make Mr C pay more to cover 
any additional potential losses, and equally Santander isnt expected to refund any 
difference if it goes the other way.
As I said above, in some instances the ERC will be too much and in others it will be too 
little. That is allowed under the rules as long as, at the point it was set, the ERC was a 
reasonable pre-estimate of the potential loss the lender would incur upon early repayment in 
line with the regulatory guidance in MCOB. Here Im satisfied it was.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied: 
Santander was entitled to charge Mr C the ERC set out in his mortgage contract when 
he repaid his mortgage early. 
There was no requirement for Santander to only charge an amount worked out based 
on Mr Cs individual loan and date of redemption, instead it was allowed to charge an 
amount based on its pre-estimate of the costs of early termination of a group of 
mortgages of similar type. 
Santander didnt have to treat Mr C any differently to any of its other customers that 
redeemed their mortgage whilst there is an ERC in force.
Santander didnt have to waive the ERC either in full or in part.
For all the reasons given I dont think Santander acted unfairly or unreasonably in this 
matter.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman