DRN-4004322
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General 
[Fairmead] has handled a claim on his buildings insurance policy following subsidence at 
his property.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter on 26 May 2023, an extract of which is detailed 
below:
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary 
here:
An extension at Mr Ws property experienced subsidence in 2018. He made a claim 
on his buildings insurance policy and Fairmead initially declined it under an exclusion 
for defective design. Unhappy with this, Mr W raised a complaint with this Service in 
2019 and it was upheld by an Ombudsman who said Fairmead should reassess the 
claim without applying that exclusion. Fairmead accepted the claim in 2020 and 
further investigations and visits were undertaken.
These investigations identified the foundations would need piling or the extension 
might need to be demolished and rebuilt. The work would be in close proximity to 
drains owned by the local water company and would require Mr W to enter into a 
build over agreement. By signing this, Mr S would accept liability for future 
problems with the water company drains if they were damaged by the remedial work.
Mr W didnt think this was fair and the potential liability for future damage shouldnt sit 
with him as the remedial work would have been designed and undertaken by 
Fairmead. So, he declined to sign the agreement.
Since then, Mr W says little progress has been made on the building project, which in 
his view should have only taken six months. He says hes not been provided with a 
start date and Fairmead has failed to monitor or progress the work. But Fairmead 
said the claim had stalled due to Mr Ws refusal to sign the build over agreement as it 
couldnt progress matters without this. Mr W raised a further complaint with this 
Service.
Our Investigator explained she could consider events between 22 April 2020 and 31 
December 2022. She said it was unfair of Fairmead to expect Mr W to enter into the 
water companys build over agreement given the obligations it places on Mr W. She 
said Fairmead should find an alternative way to proceed that avoided this 
requirement. She also awarded £2,500 compensation for the impact of the delays 
caused by Fairmead.
Mr W accepted the findings but said he was still concerned Fairmead wouldnt 
provide insurance cover for any damage to the drains after completion of the 
remedial work.
Fairmead didnt accept the findings. It explained it could arrange a contractor to take 
responsibility for the drains during the work and to check them after the work was 
completed. It said the works would have a 10-year guarantee that would cover any 
subsequent damage, removing liability from the consumer for that time. It proposed a 
further site visit to explain things to Mr W directly and reassess the proposals and to 
assess possible current damage to the public drains identified by a CCTV drain 
survey.
Our Investigator thought the guarantee should be in place indefinitely but Fairmead 
disagreed and so the complaint has come to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim is ongoing with a number of issues still being discussed regarding alternative 
solutions which would avoid piling and about the terms of the policy and the future cover 
available under it. These issues fall outside the scope of this complaint but Mr W is of course 
entitled to bring a further complaint once these discussions are concluded if he remains 
unhappy with Fairmeads answer and renewed proposals.
My decision focuses on the period from April 2020 and December 2022.
The remedial works
Fairmead has proposed remedial works to address the cause of the damage and Mr 
W has concerns about these. He is keen for this Service to influence the engineering 
approach and the timescales the work is undertaken in.
Our Investigator has already explained that we wouldnt tell a subsidence expert what 
engineered solution it should employ and we wouldnt impose time deadlines on a 
business for undertaking the work.
Our role is to consider complaints about things that have already happened rather 
than what might happen in the future.
But insurers are under an obligation to deal with claims promptly and fairly and Id 
expect Fairmead to keep this in mind while handling the remainder of this claim.
The key issue at the heart of this complaint is Mr Ws concerns about the potential 
future liability Fairmeads work will impose on him. Hes confirmed hes happy to 
enter into the build over agreement required by the LWA now he knows Fairmeads 
contractors will offer a 10-year guarantee.
Our Investigator thought this wasnt long enough and Fairmead should ensure the 
contractors guarantee is indefinite. But I dont agree as this Service has no power to 
tell a contractor the length of the guarantee it should provide, thats a matter for the 
contractor itself. This Services power only extends to directions to regulated 
businesses, in this case thats Fairmead.
Fairmead has offered the reassurance that it is very unlikely the works would fail after 
the 10 year guarantee has expired and says any problems are much more likely to 
occur much sooner than that, within the lifetime of the guarantee and this seems 
reasonable to me.The contractor will be working as Fairmeads agent and Fairmead is under an 
obligation to ensure any work undertaken on its behalf under an insurance claim is 
effective and lasting. So, if there were to be problems in the future and for any reason 
the contractors guarantee didnt provide the expected cover for these, I would expect 
Fairmead to keep in mind this obligation and consider any claim or complaint made 
by Mr W in relation to the quality of works undertaken on its behalf.
The delays and their impact
Incidences of subsidence by their nature are often stressful for policyholders to deal 
with and I cant hold insurers responsible for this. But Fairmead is under an obligation 
to handle claims relating to them promptly and fairly and where it hasnt and has 
caused avoidable or unnecessary delay, I can consider the impact of the delays on 
the policyholder.
Our Investigator explained we cant consider the full life of the claim under this 
complaint as some of this has already been the subject of a previous complaint. But I 
can consider the handling and any delays from April 2020 when Fairmead issued its 
previous final response.
Here, I do have to keep in mind Mr Ws personal circumstances. Hes explained his 
wife experiences certain medical conditions that mean the ongoing claim and 
uncertainty will have been particularly challenging. While shes not a named policy 
holder, I understand why the impact of the delays on his wife would have been 
distressing for Mr W.
Mr W has explained he has a life expectancy of just three years. He has highlighted 
the impact of dealing with an extended claim and the uncertainty of when the repairs 
will start - let alone finish  at his time of life and under these personal circumstances 
has had an impact significantly more severe than if he were younger. And from 
considering all the evidence, I can understand why this would be the case.
Its clear to me throughout Mr W has lost faith in Fairmead and its agents and given 
the circumstances of the claim and how long its been going on I do understand why. 
The claim has been declined on previous occasions and I understand why these 
further problems would have a more significant impact on Mr W.
Mr W now accepts he needs to enter into the build over agreement as he knows 
Fairmeads contractors will put a guarantee in place. But I understand why he would 
have been reluctant to do this until he was satisfied he wouldnt be personally liable 
for future problems with the work.
Recently, Fairmead has said it will revisit Mr Ws property to see if there are 
alternative solutions it could employ instead of the piling option it has been keen to 
pursue for some years. This seems like a sensible way forward to me but I do think 
Fairmead could have considered this much sooner than it has. The fact it has only 
just done so, means it has caused Mr W unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
over an extended period of time.
Having thought about this very carefully, I think Fairmead should pay Mr W £2,500 in 
compensation to reflect the significant impact of the delays its caused in handling 
this claim.
The parties responded to my provisional decision. Fairmead said:While it wasnt fully in agreement, it accepted my proposed compensatory award of 
£2,500.
It confirmed it was investigating alternative reinstatement proposals which would 
avoid the need for the build over agreement. But it said if these arent viable, it might 
need to return to the original proposal which would require Mr W to sign the 
agreement.
It also thought Mr Ws concerns about signing the agreement went beyond the risk of 
faulty work or damage caused by the contractors and the 10 year guarantee didnt 
sufficiently allay his concerns over entering into the agreement.
Mr W accepted the findings in principle but wanted to make a number of clarifying 
comments.
The piling solution required the extension to be demolished and rebuilt and the 
proximity of the piles to the street drainage was the reason behind the requirement 
for him to enter into the build over agreement. 
He was in fact unwilling to sign the build over agreement until the outstanding issue 
of Fairmead agreeing to provide ongoing cover for potential future damage to the 
drains caused by the extension and foundations, was resolved.
He hadnt ever refused to sign the agreement but had specified a number of 
conditions before he would. And it was Fairmeads refusal to provide ongoing cover 
for the drains that halted proceedings
If the piling solution was pursued, it would have implications for his and his wifes 
living arrangements. He believed Fairmead was trying to avoid undertaking the 
remedial work as he said the cost of the rebuilding of the extension and any 
alternative accommodation required would be far more expensive than any 
compensation awarded under any complaint he might have to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the start, I will reiterate my role is to consider complaints arising from acts or 
omissions by businesses that have already happened and I wont make findings on 
things that may or may not happen in the future. A number of the points made by the 
parties relate to ongoing issues that are not yet resolved and I wont be making 
findings on these for this reason.
Fairmeads comments
The conversations around alternative proposals which would avoid the requirement 
for a build over agreement are ongoing. Fairmead points out that if these prove to be 
unviable, it may need to revert to the original scheme and that would require Mr W to 
enter into the build over agreement. 
This is obviously something that may or may not happen in the future. Mr W has 
clarified, contrary to my previous understanding, that he does have other concerns 
which require resolution before hell be happy entering into the build over agreement. And so this is something that will need to be addressed if the alternative proposals 
prove unviable. I dont have the power to tell Mr W what he has to do in these 
circumstances.
Further to my provisional decision, while Fairmead did not handle the claim or 
communications around the subject well, I am satisfied its request for Mr W to sign 
the build over agreement was reasonable and, seemingly, only the homeowner can 
enter the agreement. In connection with this, Fairmead remains potentially liable for 
any issues that may occur in line with its obligations to ensure any repair is lasting 
and effective.
Mr Ws comments
I acknowledge Mr Ws clarification and comments about potentially having to make 
further complaints in the future and recognise the inconvenience and frustration this 
may bring. And while I empathise with the personal circumstances he describes, this 
Service cant become involved in the ongoing management of a claim as this isnt 
within our remit.
Mr W has now clarified he hasnt actually yet agreed to enter into the build over 
agreement as the issue of ongoing insurance cover from Fairmead under his policy is 
yet to be resolved. I explained in my provisional decision, this disagreement sits 
outside this decision and so I wont be making a finding on this. But it seems its an 
issue that will need to be addressed if the circumstances arise.
Mr W has commented on the possible requirement for alternative accommodation 
and the costs Fairmead will incur if the original proposals are pursued, in relation to 
its approach to his claim. I understand Mr Ws frustration about potentially having to 
make a further complaint and acknowledge his belief this is a cost-saving tactic 
Fairmeads employed. I wont comment on this beyond saying Fairmead is required 
to offer referral rights to this Service when it handles a complaint from a consumer. 
And any requirement for alternative accommodation is uncertain at this stage, so I 
wont be making a finding on this. 
I have also previously explained I cant place a time deadline on Fairmead regarding 
the remedial work once the proposals are agreed. But I will again remind Fairmead of 
its obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything very carefully again, including the parties 
responses to my provisional decision, I have reached the same conclusion. And that 
is that Fairmead could have handled the claim much better than it has and its failings 
caused Mr W significant distress and inconvenience. I will be directing it to pay Mr W 
£2,500 in recognition of this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Fairmead Insurance Limited  
trading as Legal and General to pay Mr W £2,500 for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused him through its poor handling of his claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 Paul Phillips
Ombudsman