DRN-3682574
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that they were wrongly advised by Trussle Lab Ltd, and because of 
this, they ended up paying much more for their mortgage. 
What happened
This complaint is brought by both Mr and Mrs P, as the mortgage is in both their names. But 
our dealings have been with Mr P. So Ill mainly refer to him in this decision. 
Mr P said he used the brokerage services of Trussle to apply for a mortgage in December 
2021, with a bank I wont name here (Ill just refer to it as the bank). He secured an offer in 
December 2021, which was valid until 30 June 2022. But then his house buying plans 
changed, and he asked Trussle if the bank would transfer its offer to a new property. 
Mr P said that in late April, Trussle said the bank had agreed to transfer its offer to their new 
property. But then, a little over two weeks later, it told Mr P that the bank wouldnt do this, 
and he couldnt keep the same rate after all.
Mr P said in this time interest rates had increased dramatically, and he would now be faced 
with paying thousands of pounds more, over the fixed period of five years. Mr P said that if 
Trussle had accurately informed him that the bank would be unreliable or unlikely to proceed 
with the product for the new property, he would have chosen a different product. Mr P 
suggested he could have obtained a rate of 1.52% fixed for five years. But he said he ended 
up with 2.29% over five years. Mr P wanted Trussle to pay the difference.
Trussle said it had tried to overturn the banks decision, but without success. It was sorry 
that it hadnt been able to help him. But it didnt think this was its fault. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said the information the 
bank first gave Trussle wasnt correct, as it wasnt able to transfer Mr Ps offer to a different 
property. When the bank told Trussle this, it suggested Mr P could explore another option, 
and asked if he wanted to stay with this bank or look at another lender. Trussle then logged 
a complaint for Mr P with the bank, and with its own complaints department.
Our investigator said Trussle was doing all it could to try to help. It got in touch with the bank 
in early May, asking for help to keep the rate hed originally been offered. And it suggested 
Mr P could secure a current mortgage product to protect against any further rate rises. But 
the bank still refused to transfer its offer to a different property. 
Our investigator said it wouldnt be fair to hold Trussle responsible for the banks decision 
not to honour the 1.52% rate.
Later in July 2022, Trussle became aware that the bank had actually upheld Mr Ps 
complaint. It had decided to reinstate Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage offer, and apply it to their 
new property, because it had told Trussle that it would do so. The bank had written to 
Trussle, apparently on 9 June 2022, to say it would extend Mr Ps offer to 24 June. 
But Trussle said it didnt find out about this until it was too late. It said it didnt receive this 
letter. And it didnt receive any follow-up call either, although the letter said the bank would 
be in touch with Trussle shortly to see if Mr P still wanted to take up this offer.
Our investigator said that if Trussle knew in June that the bank was going to extend its offer 
after all, she thought it would have been in touch with Mr P. Thats because the broker would 
get paid commission by the bank if the mortgage then completed (and wouldnt, if it didnt 
complete). 
Our investigator didnt think Trussle had done anything wrong. 
Mr P didnt agree. He said we hadnt looked at why Trussle kept his mortgage application 
open (which he said then meant the bank recorded a hard credit search on the credit files of 
himself and his wife). And he said that any follow-up by Trussle would have revealed that the 
bank wanted to honour the rate that was initially agreed upon. 
Mr P thought Trussle was more interested in selling products at a higher rate than securing 
the lower rate that he and Mrs P wanted. And Mr P said our investigator hadnt explained 
how such an important message (the confirmation that the initial offer would be honoured) 
got lost on its way. 
Mr P said he wanted this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
Our investigator said that our service couldnt look into complaints about the mortgage 
application remaining open, or a hard credit search being completed on Mr Ps file, or how 
exactly the message got lost, as Mr P hadnt complained about these things to Trussle. 
This case was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Before I start, Id like to clarify what I am looking into. Mr Ps original complaint was that he 
was misadvised by Trussle, and thats why hed ended up with a higher interest rate on his 
mortgage. When our investigator didnt uphold that complaint, Mr P said we hadnt looked 
into a number of other issues. Our investigator said that Mr P had to complain about these 
things to Trussle first. 
I think our investigator was right to say that if Mr P wanted to know why his application had 
been kept open he should ask Trussle about that in the first instance. But on how this 
message got lost, I do think our service can consider if Mr P ended up with a higher 
mortgage because Trussle let him down in some other way  here, by failing to action a 
letter saying his offer could be extended, after all. And I think our investigator did reach a 
view that this was unlikely to be Trussles fault. She said that Trussle had a very strong 
interest in telling Mr P about this, if it had been aware of the letter the bank sent.
Ive read the emails that Mr P exchanged with Trussle, and I can see he notified Trussle that 
he was very cautious about financial matters. He wanted to be reassured that the bank he 
was applying to wasnt likely to reject customers arbitrarily. Trussle reassured him on this. It appears from Mr Ps initial complaint to us, that he thinks Trussle should perhaps have 
suggested a different lender, but I dont think Trussle had any reason to suspect, either at 
this point or later, that things were going to go wrong for Mr P.
Mr Ps purchase unfortunately then fell through. He found somewhere else to buy relatively 
quickly, and he wanted to transfer the mortgage offer to a different property. Trussle said it 
would ask the bank. 
The bank didnt have to do what Mr P wanted  the mortgage offer he go makes clear that 
Changes to any of the information you have given us could alter the information in this 
offer. But the bank initially said it could transfer Mr Ps offer to a new property. It then said it 
couldnt do this, after all. 
Again, it appears that Mr P thinks he should have been warned about possible problems at 
this stage, by Trussle. But Im satisfied that Trussle only passed on to Mr P information that it 
received. It isnt responsible for the banks mistake here, and I dont think it could have 
anticipated it. I can also see that Trussle did then try to help make sure Mr Ps purchase 
stayed on track, by suggesting other mortgage offers he could take up. 
Because Mr P was unhappy, Trussle lodged a complaint for him with the bank. It doesnt 
look like Trussle anticipated that the bank would contact it, not Mr and Mrs P, with its reply, 
but thats what the bank apparently did. 
Mr P wanted us to investigate what happened to this letter. I dont think were ever likely to 
know exactly what happened  theres no suggestion that the letter was sent recorded 
delivery, so theres no way to be sure if it was delivered or not. So Ive got to weigh up 
whats most likely to have happened. 
We do know the letter was sent by post, only, although Trussle normally communicates with 
this bank by email. We also know that the bank used the right address. Most post which is 
sent, is successfully delivered. But theres nothing to show that, here  Trussle says it has 
no record of receiving this. And as our investigator said, it seems very unlikely that Trussle 
would ignore a letter which would allow it to sell a mortgage to someone (and gain the 
associated commission). Especially when, as here, that person otherwise looked unlikely to 
use its services. 
So, on balance, and considering all of the above factors, I think its most likely that the 
banks letter extending its offer just wasnt received by Trussle. I dont think its most likely 
that what has gone wrong here is Trussles fault, and I dont think I can fairly and reasonably 
hold Trussle responsible for the fact that Mr and Mrs P werent aware at the time that the 
bank had extended their offer. 
I know that Mr and Mrs P will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be 
upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman