DRN-3416080
The complaint
Mr D has complained about Drydens Limited pursuing him for a debt which he says he 
previously settled.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
This complaint is about a credit card account which was opened in 2008, defaulted in 2012, 
and was sold onto the current debt owner some months later. In 2019, Drydens were asked 
to collect the debt on behalf of the current debt owner.
At that point, Mr D was paying £10 a month. Drydens continued this arrangement. As the 
arrangement was coming to an end, they asked Mr D to get in touch. They wanted to review 
his circumstances and check what was affordable for him. Mr D didnt reply, so eventually 
Drydens started the process to apply for a county court judgement (CCJ). Mr D then cleared 
the debt in full.
Mr D says he settled this debt with the original creditor years ago, so it shouldve never been 
sold on. Alternatively, he says the debt was statute barred. He says Drydens kept writing to 
him, so he was forced to pay them to make all the letters stop. He says that they harassed 
him, and that he used other credit to clear this account. He complains it was unfair Drydens 
applied to the courts when hed been making payments.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained Drydens were just the current debt collector, and some of Mr Ds points related to 
what the original lender or new debt owner did, rather than Drydens. They looked at the 
evidence and found that the debt and outstanding balance were genuine. They explained 
Drydens were allowed to apply to the courts, not least as Mr D wouldnt reply to their review 
requests. They did not agree that Drydens had harassed him.
Mr D didnt agree. He now says he never got Drydens review requests, and that the first he 
heard from them was when they sent him court papers. He says he has an open credit card 
with the original lender with credit available, which shows he doesnt owe them anything.
Mr D asked for an ombudsman to review things afresh, so the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, this complaint is about Drydens, not any other business. So in 
this decision, I cannot consider things which different businesses did, rather than Drydens. 
For example, I cannot make any findings on the debt being sold on  that was done between 
the original lender and the current debt owner, long before Drydens involvement.
I can understand if Mr D wanted to make sure he really did owe this debt. Ive looked 
through the evidence at hand, including the credit agreement Mr D signed with the terms of 
his account, the historic statements showing how the balance got to where it is now, and the 
notice of assignment that confirmed the original lender had sold the account to the current 
owner. The dates, amounts, and references match. I am satisfied this was a genuine debt 
that Mr D owed.
Mr D pointed out that the debt had fallen off his credit file. But while I can understand why he 
might have thought that was relevant, Im afraid it didnt change the debts validity. Its 
normal for a debt to stop showing on ones credit file after enough time. But the debt still 
exists until its settled, even when its no longer showing on ones credit file.
I also understand that Mr D recalls paying off this account. He suggested it had a zero 
balance and may have been sold on by accident. He has not provided any evidence to 
substantiate that he paid it off. Whereas I have gone through the history of transactions 
going right back to the start of this account, and I can see that it had a significant outstanding 
balance when it was sold on. The account was not settled at that point, and it did not then 
get settled until Mr D paid it off in 2021.
Mr D pointed out that he has a card with the original lender. But Im afraid I dont see that its 
relevant. That other card has a different number and is clearly a different account  not least 
given that it sounds like that card is open, whereas this one defaulted and closed back in 
2012. Its not unusual for one to be able to have multiple accounts with the same lender.
Mr D suggested this account was statute barred. Only a court can decide whether a debt is 
statute barred or not  our service cant do that. Though I will point out that his payments 
would normally have prevented the account from becoming statute barred. In any case, even 
if the debt had been statute barred, it would not have ceased to exist, and Drydens would 
still have been allowed to ask Mr D for repayments.
Ive looked at the history of Drydens contact with Mr D. It doesnt look like they contacted 
him excessively or unreasonably. For example, they only sent him two or three letters per 
year. And they had legitimate reasons to contact Mr D  indeed, they had to send him some 
things to let him know what was going on. Their letters were about things like letting Mr D 
know they were dealing with the account, offering a reduced settlement, and asking to 
review things so they could check what was affordable for Mr D. That all seems reasonable.
Mr D said Drydens forced him into paying them £10 a month. But that payment arrangement 
was already in place when Drydens were passed the account  Drydens just continued the 
payment plan that Mr D had set up previously. Indeed, Mr D had been making £10 payments 
going all the way back to when the debt was still with the original lender, many years before 
Drydens were ever involved. In regard to using other credit to clear this debt, that was Mr Ds 
choice, and I cant see that Drydens knew he would use other credit for that payment. 
Further, Drydens never asked him to use other credit, and per the paragraph above I cant 
see that they harassed him or communicated with him unreasonably. Indeed, Drydens had 
actually been trying to get in touch with Mr D to check what he could sustainably afford, but 
Mr D had not been replying.Lastly, I understand Mr D was upset that Drydens applied for a CCJ. I appreciate it can feel 
stressful to face legal action. But it was appropriate for Drydens to try to review things with 
Mr D to check what was affordable. And when he didnt reply, a CCJ was a legitimate 
potential next step. Drydens were allowed to apply for a CCJ, even if Mr D had been making 
some payments. I cant see they did anything wrong here in doing so. Ultimately, it would 
have then been up to the court to decide whether to grant the CCJ or not.
Mr D now says he never got the review letters, or any letters from Drydens before the letter 
of claim. But Mr D previously said that he did get their letters when he alleged theyd 
harassed him. Both of those things cant be the case. I can see that Drydens did send Mr D 
the appropriate letters. And these went to the same correct place as the letter of claim, which 
Mr D confirmed he received. So I think its most likely that Mr D was properly notified.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman