DRN-4158804
The complaint
Mrs F is represented by a solicitor in pursuing her complaint. It says that Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has unfairly refused life assurance claims she made 
under her and her late husbands protection policies. Rather than pay the claims, it voided 
the policies altogether on the grounds of misrepresentation.  
To resolve the complaint, the solicitor contends that Mrs Fs claim ought to be settled in full, 
with interest, less the premiums she has already been refunded.     
What happened
In March 2019, Mr and Mrs F met with a third party financial adviser (IFA) at their home, 
who assisted them in making a mortgage application. This adviser wasnt affiliated with L&G.   
In April 2019, Mr and Mrs F met with the adviser again to arrange life protection for the 
mortgage. The adviser proposed they take out a joint decreasing term assurance policy to 
cover the capital repayment mortgage of £131,995 and a further level term assurance policy 
for their help to buy equity loan of £35,199. Both policies were set up for 25 years, to match 
the mortgage lending.    
Since the two policies were designed to jointly cover the same mortgage lending, I will refer 
to them hereafter collectively as the policy, for ease of reading.  
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 10 May 2023. In that decision, I 
explained why I did not believe that the complaint should succeed. 
My view on the evidence Id seen was that L&G wasnt informed of a change to Mr Fs 
health, which had occurred before the policy began. I concluded there had been a careless 
misrepresentation, not a reckless one as L&G had suggested. Nonetheless, if Mr F had 
informed L&G of that change, its underwriting guidance confirmed it could not have offered 
him any insurance. So, I couldnt direct L&G to pay Mrs Fs claim now, as the policy 
shouldnt have begun at all. 
I invited the parties to make any further submissions or provide evidence that they wanted 
me to consider. I havent repeated the background here, as it is known to the parties. 
However, a full copy of the findings set out in that provisional decision is provided in italics 
below.
I was truly sorry to learn that Mr F had passed away. I send my condolences to Mrs F and 
her family, and I can see from the statement that Mrs F has kindly supplied how very difficult 
things have been for her. I do not wish to cause Mrs F any further upset in issuing this 
provisional decision. However, for the reasons Ill go on to explain, I do not consider L&G to 
have acted unfairly in the circumstances of the claim or in voiding Mr Fs cover.
When applying for insurance, if an applicant doesnt tell his or her insurer relevant 
information in response to a clear question its known as misrepresentation. If the 
circumstances around a claim prompt an insurer to believe a misrepresentation may have 
occurred within an application, its entitled to consider what ought to have happened at that 
time. That is what L&G has done. 
The duty to provide accurate answers to clear questions applies up to the date when an 
insurance policy starts or goes on risk. This is because policies of this type are often taken 
out as a form of protection for large borrowings, such as mortgages  which is what Mr and 
Mrs F did. As mortgages and home purchases can take many months to complete, policies 
are sometimes applied for a number of weeks or months before they actually begin. 
Once L&G had processed the relevant medical information it received relating to Mrs Fs 
claim, it discovered that Mr Fs application seemed inconsistent with his recorded medical 
history. It therefore had cause to revisit what was set out on the application.
Based on the medical evidence, L&G said its underwriting rules meant it couldnt have 
offered Mr F any life assurance cover at all. Because of this, it cant pay Mrs Fs claim now. 
It therefore falls to me to look at what Mr F was asked, and determine if I think he made a 
misrepresentation, upon which L&G could amend the terms it offered and/or avoid the policy. 
The correct position is to decide what ought to have happened at the time of the application. 
That means looking at what was asked against the relevant medical records up to the date 
the policy went on risk  so 28 June 2019.  
Mr F was asked the following, to which he answered no:
During the last 3 months have you had any of the following?
unexplained bleeding, weight loss, lump or growth
any other symptom that you may see a health professional about for
the first time during the next 4 weeks
It is not in doubt that Mr F answered the questions above correctly via the IFA in April 2019. 
He gave his answers as no. 
I realise that our investigator took the view that there couldnt have been a material 
misrepresentation because Mr and Mrs F were not sent their PDD until the day the policy 
went on risk. So, Mr F could only have said no to the questions. But I dont take that view.  
When completing the application online through the IFA, Mr and Mrs F gave the following 
declaration (which was marked as read and agreed):
This Declaration must be read by [Mr F] and [Mrs F] before proceeding with this 
application.
The information given in this application has been provided truthfully and 
accurately.
We agree to immediately inform Legal & General in writing if there are any 
changes to any answers given on the application before the policy starts.
We are aware that the information provided will form part of the legal 
relationship between us and if any of it is found to be incorrect it may mean 
that a claim is not paid or the policy(ies) is amended or cancelled.
So, the above declaration placed Mr and Mrs F on notice that the answers to the questions 
would need to be updated if anything changed before the policy began. That meant the 24 
April 2019 application answers were correct on that date, but they may be subject to change. For this reason, when the IFA informed L&G that the policy was to start, a PDD was issued 
to both Mr and Mrs F. The PDD said:
1. This document lists the questions you were asked and the answers you gave 
when applying for your policy. Please read this 'Personal Details Document' carefully 
and check the answer you've given us. This document will be held in My Account 
throughout the lifetime of the policy.
2. Please use the link in My Account to confirm either 'My answers are correct' or I 
want to 'change my answers'.
3. If you chose 'I want to change my answers' you will be able to do this online and 
we will then let you know if your changes affect your policy terms. We will need you 
to confirm within a maximum of 14 days.
Mr F didnt reply within 14 days; this was chased by L&G on 12 July 2019. Mr F thereafter 
completed the online confirmation that his answers were correct on 4 August 2019.  
However, on 5 July 2019, he had attended his GP where it was set out that:
Problem Lump on neck
 History noticed lump 2 weeks ago Rl side of neck
painful to touch
feeling well doesnt have any other symptoms
 Examination Large fixed lump RI supraclavicular region approx. 6cm x 3cm
looks a little pale
 Comment Needs urgent referral to head and neck clinic 2ww
I accept that between 24 April 2019 and 28 June 2019, Mr F had no knowledge that he was 
suffering with cancer, having been otherwise fit and well at a particularly young age. 
But I have to be fair to both parties in a complaint, and that means looking objectively at 
what Mr F was required to do when making his application and completing the PDD check. 
In the application L&G had set out, in clear terms, that it must be told if any answers 
changed between when the application was submitted and when the policy began. L&G was 
not responsible for the IFAs intervention; but, it supplied the answers within the PDD to Mr F 
as a failsafe - so he could check the answers he had given, in case any were now wrong.  
It follows that I dont accept the argument that because the PDD was issued on the day the 
policy started, there could be no misrepresentation; Mr and Mrs F were informed of their duty 
to disclose accurate information in the applications themselves, and the issuing of the PDD 
was reinforcement of their retrospective duty of disclosure up to 28 June 2019. 
By that date, Mr F had been suffering with the lump on his neck for approximately one week. 
I therefore believe that both questions above (and at the very least, the first one) should 
have been amended to say yes  which would have prompted additional questions. Mr F 
had a lump, and he had intended to see his GP  he had gone on to do so the following 
week. By the time he logged online to confirm his application was unchanged, Mr F had 
sadly been diagnosed with cancer.   
As these two questions were not answered correctly, I therefore believe there was a 
misrepresentation. Under law, it is a qualifying misrepresentation if it affects the terms an 
insurer could have offered; L&G has supplied underwriting evidence to show is the case. So 
once thats been established, the law on disclosure in consumer insurance contracts says that it should be classed as either deliberate/reckless or careless. The types of 
categorisations allow for different types of outcomes. 
I am mindful of the relevant Association of British Insurers (ABI) Code of Practice on 
Misrepresentation and Treating Customers Fairly and I will also take account of consumer 
law on disclosure and representations in insurance contracts when deciding what I believe is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
L&G concluded that the latter, more severe categorisation of reckless - rather than deliberate 
- applied to Mr F. By law, a qualifying misrepresentation is careless if it is not deliberate or 
reckless, with that assessment coming on the balance of the evidence by an insurer. 
The ABI Code further confirms that the typical characteristics of reckless misrepresentation 
Reckless - it is clear that the customer had a complete disregard for the question or the 
accuracy of the answer when completing the application and must have understood that the 
information was relevant to the insurer.. 
The law requires that it is for the insurer to show that a qualifying misrepresentation was 
deliberate or reckless. Cases which fall into the deliberate or reckless categorisation are 
rare, and while there will be some circumstances where this categorisation has been set out 
on balance by an insurer, I do not consider that threshold of complete disregard for the 
questions was met here. The Code also goes on to set out how this categorisation will not 
apply if a customer has a credible explanation for the misrepresentation having occurred. 
I disagree that Mr Fs actions were reckless, or deliberate. In my view, this situation is best 
described as careless. It seems to me that both Mr and Mrs F considered the application 
was completed two months prior by undergoing their application with the IFA. Though Mr F 
failed to reasonably amend the PDD information, Ive not seen any clear evidence to show 
that he acted without any regard. I believe it most likely that Mr F did not appreciate that he 
needed to look back retrospectively at the questions as if they were being answered up to 28 
June 2019. I cannot agree that his behaviour met the high threshold of acting recklessly or 
that there is sufficient objective evidence for L&G to reach this conclusion, given the 
explanations given by Mrs F and earlier application having come via an intermediary. 
Careless misrepresentation is defined as applying where the misrepresentation resulted 
from insufficient care  the failure by the customer to exercise reasonable care. This 
includes anything from an understandable oversight, or an inadvertent mistake, to serious 
negligence. I believe Mr Fs actions sit within the higher end of that band. 
In the event of misrepresentation that is either deliberate or reckless, an insurer can void a 
policy altogether (with or without a refund of premiums)  and this is what L&G has already 
done. I am glad to note it did return Mr and Mrs Fs premiums to Mrs F, after having clarified 
with her that she did not want to continue the policies by herself. 
In the event of careless misrepresentation, an insurer should consider a proportionate 
remedy. This means the outcome will depend on what the underwriting decision would have 
been had the misrepresentation not occurred at the time. If insurance could have been 
offered under different terms or for a different cost, an insurer can amend the contract to 
reflect this. If it could not have offered cover at all, the insurer can void the policy and it must 
return the premiums paid by the customer from the outset.  
L&G has shown us underwriting manual pages regarding postponement for Mr Fs symptom 
of a lump of unknown cause. This information confirms that if Mr F had corrected his 
application answers as of 28 June 2019, the outcome of the investigation would have been 
awaited. It was a reasonable response to await a reply from the head and neck clinic, to ascertain the nature of Mr Fs lump  as this was directly relevant to L&Gs decision to offer 
insurance, and for it to determine the risk and price of doing so, if appropriate.  
Mr F was seen at the head and neck clinic and underwent CT scanning in July 2019; it was 
thereafter sadly confirmed that he was suffering with cancer. Because of the staging of Mr 
Fs cancer upon diagnosis, L&G would not have been able to offer Mr F any insurance at all.  
So, the categorisation of the misrepresentation would not have any bearing on the claim 
either way. Im therefore unable to order or compel L&G to reinstate the policy and pay Mrs 
Fs claim, as that is not the appropriate remedy for careless misrepresentation of this nature. 
If it had known about Mr Fs relevant medical circumstances, it would not have offered him 
any life assurance, once the outcome establishing the reason for the lump was known. 
L&G confirmed it had nothing else to add. 
The solicitor supplied further comments. I have read these in their entirety  though I shant 
repeat them verbatim here. It was set out that:
Mrs F has not only lost her husband, but she will also now lose her home;
she now understands that L&G appears to have acted under instruction from the IFA; 
but, Mrs F had no idea that the IFA undertook the actions it did in June 2019;
she firmly believed that the policy had completed in April 2019;
she now holds strong concerns about the actions of the IFA;
the solicitor now asserts that given the IFAs knowledge that the questions needed 
confirming together with the knowledge of Mr and Mrs Fs first language was not 
English, that the IFA should have contacted them to confirm the contents of their 
application before instructing L&G to put the policy on risk;
Mrs F is strongly of the opinion that had she and Mr F been asked the policy 
questions again prior to the purchase of the property, they would have answered 
honestly;
if life insurance could not have been offered due to amended answers, Mrs F is 
adamant that they would not have completed the purchase of the property;
Mr F would have been caused inconsolable grief and worry if he had known that Mrs 
F and his family would be left without a home.    
Mrs F also sent a letter directly to me on behalf of herself and her family, comprising two 
main parts  her circumstances at the time Mr F passed away, and comments that she 
thinks are relevant to my final decision. These included:
she was pleased to receive the provisional decision  as their family needs to move 
on from the distress of the last three years;
she is now suffering with her mental health and under medical care;
she doesnt feel that L&G respected her or her family;
the PDD was actually carried out by their eldest daughter;
they do not blame her for not recognising what was required and she would have 
clarified the right information by telephone when she later spoke to L&G;
the mislaid documentation caused them a great deal of upset  and whilst they 
accepted £300 compensation for that, they are still considering whether this is a 
General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) breach or not;
they do acknowledge the right of L&G to refuse the claim;
but they feel it should have followed high ethical and professional standards and 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) recommendations on treating customers fairly;
they appreciate my findings in the provisional decision relating to careless 
misrepresentation and that Mr F didnt act recklessly;they feel this has, in part, restored some of their honour;
Mrs F couldnt keep the cover going by herself as she doesnt want to maintain any 
relationship with L&G;
she finds it hard to logically understand that the fact that she did not want to continue 
as a sole policyholder could waive her right to get due money for her husband's 
death; 
during the claim process, L&G told her and her daughter that it would only pay out on 
terminal illness, that is inconsistent with it now claiming it wouldnt have insured Mr F 
at all;
the ABI recommends that insurers will have a greater defence on misrepresentation 
disputes if, at renewal, the consumer is sent a copy of the Statement of Facts with a 
letter requesting that the customer inform the insurer if any of the information is 
incorrect;
guidance from the Citizens Advice Bureau also says the guidance issued by the ABI 
said that if you didn't tell the insurer about a material fact but you acted honestly and 
reasonably, they should pay your claim in full;
in Mrs Fs view, a lack of reasonable care is something that is common sense not to 
do and/or does not need any third-party expert advice or knowledge not to do;
Mr F may have needed expert knowledge (of the GP) to know he had a lump;
and lump translates differently in his language;
they hope the law would consider that English was not Mr Fs first language;
her letter isnt putting forward legal arguments but rather, some personal perspective 
on the complaint;
they hope the human side of the situation can be considered;
they reserve their right to reject the decision if needed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for replying to my provisional findings.  
All of the comments made by the solicitor in response to my provisional findings relate to the 
actions of the IFA. To reiterate, this decision concerns the complaint that has been pursued 
against L&G. A separate complaint was made to this service regarding the IFA; I cannot look 
at any complaint point about the IFA within the context of this decision.  
I also explained in my previous findings that I have considerable sympathy for the profoundly 
difficult financial and emotional circumstances Mrs F and her family have gone through. I do 
not underestimate that, and I have considered her personal statement very carefully. 
However, I cannot uphold a complaint merely because of compassion towards a particular 
party. I have to assess the facts of each complaint to reach a fair and reasonable outcome 
based on the evidence before me, taking into account the submissions from both sides. And 
none of the additional information Ive seen changes my provisional view that L&G has 
reasonably declined this claim. 
To clarify for Mrs F, the fact she declined to continue with the cover on a sole basis has no 
bearing whatsoever on the decision by L&G to refuse her claim. The outcome of the claim 
decision was that Mr F could not have been offered any insurance, meaning no payment 
could be made. This would be the case whether Mrs F carried on the cover or not. Sadly, as 
of 28 June 2019, Mr F gave policy answers that meant he wasnt insurable; Mrs F could 
have been insured, therefore L&G was right to ask her if she wanted to remain covered or cancel the joint policy altogether.  
I know Mrs F feels very upset about the way L&G suggested a claim would be paid for 
terminal illness, and voiding the policy only came up later down the line. But I dont believe 
that L&G was wrong to confirm it could only meet a terminal illness claim if a claim was 
made before Mr F passed away. What it meant was that the policy didnt include critical 
illness benefit  only terminal illness benefit. The first is additional cover when a person 
suffers with a listed serious illness, such as cancer. The latter is an advanced payment of 
death benefit, if a policyholder has a limited life expectancy under 12 months.  
However, this confirmation during the initial claim stage was made before L&Gs claim 
handlers had knowledge of any misrepresentation. That wasnt known until L&G had sight of 
Mr Fs medical records. Until then, it had been communicating in general terms. L&G 
couldnt have known it might go on to void the policy, until it assessed the medical evidence.  
I recognise Mrs F continues to feel that the handling of sensitive medical information was 
dealt with contrary to data protection principles, but that isnt something I can make findings 
about. That role falls to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO), and Mrs F can contact 
that organisation about data protection issues, if she requires.  
Similarly, though Mrs F continues to hold concerns about professional standards, I cannot go 
further and make findings on how L&G ought to have approached the claim process. We are 
not a regulator; that role falls to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Turning to the misrepresentation, I recognise that Mrs F now says that her daughter aided 
Mr F with the PDD on 4 August 2019. But even so, the duty set out by L&G was very clear. 
I realise that Mr and Mrs F are not native English speakers, and they may require help. If Mr 
F had felt he did not understand any of the content, he could have asked either the IFA or 
L&G for assistance. The explanation Mrs F has given reaffirms my view that these actions 
were careless  Mr F needed to take more care to ensure that no questions were wrongly 
answered. 
I remain persuaded that a misrepresentation occurred. By the time of confirming the 
answers, Mr F had seen his GP for the lump he had on his neck, that had been present for 
at least one week before the policy began on 28 June 2019. Whether his daughter aided him 
in completing the PDD or not, L&G needed to know about that.  
Mrs F has confirmed what the ABI guidance requires  and I agree. That guidance requires 
the insurer to send a letter requesting that the customer inform the insurer if any of the 
information is incorrect  and that is precisely what L&G did in sending the PDD to Mr F on 
28 June 2019. 
The further guidance from Citizens Advice doesnt apply here. That proposes how a full 
claim should be paid in a situation where a consumer answered honestly and reasonably  
but for the reasons given in my provisional decision and further above, I have deemed Mr F 
to have acted carelessly in not amending his answers when completing the PDD. I cannot 
ask L&G to pay a full claim, because had Mr F given accurate and reasonable answers 
relating to his lump for which he had since seen the GP (and sadly been diagnosed with 
cancer in July 2019), L&G could not have offered to cover him at all.  
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mrs Fs position, this complaint should not succeed. L&G made Mr F reasonably aware of the continuing duty of disclosure up to 28 June 2019; 
and sadly, his medical circumstances changed during this time. If he had informed L&G of 
that change (through his daughter or otherwise), its underwriting guidance confirmed it could 
not have offered Mr F life cover at all  because of his subsequent diagnosis. 
So, it remains the case that I cannot compel it to pay Mrs Fs claim now, where no insurance 
would have been offered in light of the correct medical evidence which ought reasonably to 
have been supplied to L&G on receipt of the PDD. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman