DRN-3888276
The complaint
Mrs P complains about HDI Global Specialty SE and their decision to decline two claims she 
made on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs P took out a pet insurance policy, underwritten by HDI, in late March 2022 with a policy 
start date of 31 March.
On 10 May, Mrs P took her dog, who Ill refer to as B, to her vets as B had been licking his 
anal glands. Mrs P and her vet agreed a course of action, which included medication and 
potential food changes to monitor any sensitivities.
While this treatment was ongoing, B developed an ear infection. This was treated with 
medication while further investigations were completed, and Mrs Bs vet decided to treat B 
for symptoms of atopy/allergies. This treatment and a change of diet improved Bs condition, 
and Mrs P submitted two claims to HDI to cover the costs shed paid from May to August 
2022.
But HDI declined both claims. They thought B presented symptoms of atopy/allergies in 
March 2022, before the policy was incepted. And so, they felt the condition was pre-existing 
and any claim was excluded under the terms and conditions of the insurance policy. 
Mrs P was unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint. Mrs P referred to her vets 
opinion, already provided to HDI, that there was no reasonable link between the anal gland 
issue identified in Bs annual vaccination appointment on 25 March 2022 and the last atopy 
diagnosis. So, she wanted HDI to accept the two claims shed made. Mrs P was also 
unhappy with how long it had taken HDI to assess the claims she made.
HDI responded to the complaint and upheld it in part. They accepted the claims had taken 
longer than they wouldve liked to reach a resolution. And they accepted they couldve 
communicated with Mrs P better during this time. So, they paid Mrs P £30 to recognise any 
inconvenience this caused. But they thought theyd declined the claims fairly, based on the 
pre-existing condition exclusion, due to the issues found with Bs anal glands before the 
policy inception. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more for this aspect of the 
complaint. Mrs P remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They didnt think HDI had applied 
the exclusion fairly, as they felt Bs treating vet had made it reasonably clear the issue with 
the anal glands couldnt be directly linked to the later diagnosis of Atopy/allergies. So, they 
thought HDI should reassess the claims against the terms of the policy, on the basis the 
conditions werent pre-existing before the policy inception. And if following this HDI accepted 
the claims, our investigator thought HDI should pay Mrs P 8% statutory interest on any 
payment, to recognise the time Mrs P was without the funds that shed already paid the vet.
Mrs P accepted this recommendation. But HDI didnt. HDI maintained their belief that the 
issue with the anal glands was first present before the policy was incepted. And they felt it 
was reasonable to assume this issue was linked to the atopy and so, the subsequent ear 
infection. HDI also referred to Bs history of ear problems in 2021, which they felt 
strengthened their position. So, they thought the claims had been declined fairly and didnt 
think they needed to do anything more. As HDI didnt agree, the complaint has been passed 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
I note HDI have already paid Mrs P £30 to recognise the length of time it took for them to 
progress her claim. And from what Ive seen, this £30 has been accepted and paid. As this 
isnt disputed, I havent thought about this aspect of the complaint any further as Im satisfied 
it's been resolved satisfactorily. Instead, my decision focuses on the main area of dispute, 
which centres around the declinature of the claims Mrs P has made.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful to explain exactly 
what Im able to consider, and how. It is not my role to re-underwrite the claim, as I dont 
have the expertise to do so. Instead, it is my role to consider the actions HDI have taken and 
decide whether I think theyve been both fair and reasonable. 
Where an insurer such as HDI applies an exclusion to decline a claim, it is their responsibility 
to show this exclusion is valid and has been applied fairly. So, in this situation, I need to be 
satisfied that HDI have acted fairly when deciding that the treatment Mrs P has claimed for 
related to a pre-existing condition.
And when considering this, our services general approach is to place a greater weight on 
the opinion of the vet who has treated the animal, as they have a greater in-depth knowledge 
of the animal and its medical history. And they have seen any symptoms at the time they 
were displayed and present.
I can see that when HDI considered Mrs Ps claim, they asked Mrs Ps vets for their 
comments before declining both claims. And after receiving the vets comments, HDI 
decided that the anal glands first presented symptoms for atopy/allergies on 25 March 2022, 
six days before the policy incepted.
Ive considered the comments Mrs Ps vet provided to HDI at length. As both Mrs P and HDI 
have seen these comments, I dont intend to provide a full summary of everything that was 
said.
But I can see that Mrs Ps vet has stated that I do not feel that emptying anal glands due to 
some licking on one occasion at a booster vaccination is indicative or related to a future 
issue. This is a very common finding and request. So, I dont think Mrs P, or her vet, were 
aware of any atopy/allergy issues at this time and so, when the policy was incepted. And I 
think this makes it reasonably clear that Mrs Ps vet didnt think the gland issue present on 
25 March was a definite symptom of the atopy/allergies that were later diagnosed.
And because of this, I dont think Im able to say that HDI have acted fairly when deeming 
the condition to be pre-existing, as I dont think there is any sufficient evidence that reasonably links the anal gland issue noticed on 25 March, before the policy inception, to the 
diagnosis and treatment for atopy/allergies.
I understand HDI are unlikely to agree with this outcome. And I want to reassure HDI Ive 
carefully considered another e-mail Mrs Ps vet sent to HDI as part of the claim process, 
where they did state that the timing of the food change may support a link between the anal 
glands and the ear infection. But even within this e-mail, Mrs Ps vet states, In short, its 
difficult to be completely certain and There did appear to be a degree of anal gland 
infection though, which can occur without allergy/underlying cause if not recurrent. 
And the email also goes onto explain that, while ongoing ear issues can be due to atopy or 
food sensitivities it is not unusual for any dog to have the occasional ear infection, 
particularly when young, which completely resolves and is unrelated to atopy/adverse food 
reactions  as per the episode in November 2021.
So, I think even within this its clear Mrs Ps vet couldnt make any certain and definitive links 
between the anal gland issue and the ear infection that later presented. So, even if I were to 
say the anal gland issue noted on 25 March was most likely linked to the later atopy 
diagnosis, I dont think this means the ear infection definitely was.
I think the vets comments also make it clear that the ear infection in 2022 wasnt linked to 
the ear issues present in 2021, as these had been treated and resolved for six months. So, I 
dont think HDIs comments to our investigator concerning the previous ear issues impact my 
decision on this occasion.
So, as I think HDI have applied the exclusion to both claims unfairly on this occasion, Ive 
then thought about what I think HDI should do to put things right.
Putting things right
When thinking about what I think HDI should do, any award or direction I make is intended to 
place Mrs P back in the position she wouldve been in, had HDI acted fairly in the first 
instance.
On this occasion, had HDI acted fairly, I dont think they wouldve deemed the condition to 
be pre-existing. So, HDI wouldve continued to consider Mrs Ps claim against the rest of the 
insurance policy. And this is what I think they should do.
If this assessment leads to Mrs Ps claims being upheld, then I think HDI should add 8% 
statutory interest to any payment they make, from the date Mrs P paid the fees, to recognise 
the length of time Mrs P has been without access to the funds. 
I think its worth noting that following the reassessment of the claim, HDI are able to apply 
any relevant exclusions for future periods of cover, should they wish to do so as long as this 
falls within their usual business processes and approach.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint about HDI Global Specialty SE 
and direct them to take the following action:
Re-assess Mrs Ps claims, without applying the pre-existing conditions exclusion; and
If this results in Mrs Ps claims being accepted, apply 8% statutory interest to any 
payment made to Mrs P, from the date Mrs P paid the fees to the date of payment.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman