DRN-2885405
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage that Mr S holds with Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI). Mr S 
has two mortgages with BOI on properties he owns. Both are residential mortgages, albeit 
his personal circumstances mean he doesnt live in either. He is unhappy that BOI wont 
allow him to change one of the mortgages from residential to buy-to-let (BTL).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the 
wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.  We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have enough information on file to decide it.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a starting point, its not my role to dictate what BOIs lending policy should be. Rather, my 
role is to ensure it has applied its lending policy fairly and appropriately. In the case at hand, 
Im satisfied it has done that. 
BOI has refused Mr S request because he doesnt meet its lending policy; specifically, BOIs 
policy requires BTL applicants also to have a residential mortgage on a property, and to live 
in that property. However, whilst Mr S does have residential mortgages, he doesnt live in 
either of the properties secured by those residential mortgages. Therefore, a fair and 
appropriate application of BOIs lending policy means he isnt eligible for a BTL mortgage.
Mr S has said BOI must use common sense in their criteria and see that I meet it. Hes 
mistaken there; its for him to meet BOIs criteria, not for BOI to change its criteria to meet 
his requirements. 
Mr S has accused BOI of discrimination; I wont go into details to preserve Mr S privacy, but 
in essence, he has health issues and disabilities that render the property he wants to switch 
to BTL unsuitable for him to live in. I understand Mr S strength of feeling, but dont share his 
view that BOIs decision amounts to discrimination. 
The relevant legislation (the Equality Act) requires BOI to make reasonable adjustments to 
ensure people with protected characteristics (disability being one such characteristic) have 
equal access to the products and services it provides. What it doesnt require BOI to do is to 
change its lending policy (or apply it differently) such that a person with a protected 
characteristic receives a more favourable outcome than someone without that characteristic.
Lastly, Mr S says hes a mortgage prisoner; again, I have to disagree. A mortgage prisoner 
is someone without options; Mr S has options, such as selling the property, re-mortgaging it 
onto a BTL mortgage with another lender or even adapting it to make it better suited to his 
needs (albeit I accept what Mr S has said about why the latter is of limited feasibility). 
But the wider point here is that these alternatives are available for Mr S to consider. He may 
find these options unattractive, and that is his prerogative. But BOI isnt treating him unfairly 
because its lending policy doesnt allow him to have his preferred option.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman