DRN-3088171
The complaint
Mr C complains that he bought an electric scooter but was sent the wrong model. Because 
he paid for the scooter with his credit card, issued by Tesco Personal Finance PLC (which Ill 
refer to as Tesco), he says that it should reimburse him. He also complains about the way 
Tesco handled his complaint.   
What happened
In August 2020 Mr C bought an electric scooter online for £299.99. The wrong model was 
delivered. Mr C contacted the seller so that he could exchange the item or receive a refund. 
The seller did not want to do that, however; it said that would cost too much and was 
inconvenient. Instead, it offered very modest compensation and said that the model Mr C 
had received was as good as or better than the model he had ordered. 
Mr C referred the matter to Tesco and asked that it be considered under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. He has explained that he had some difficulty in doing so  he 
says for example that Tesco would not deal with his complaint by telephone and that the 
format of its documents made it difficult for him to provide this service with copies. Mr C 
expressed his dissatisfaction with that, and on 21 October 2021 Tesco issued a final 
response; that letter addressed the issues around the handling of the complaint but did not 
deal with the underlying claim itself  save to say that it was being reviewed. Mr C referred 
the matter to this service on the same day.
Mr Cs credit card statement shows that his account received a refund of £299.99 the 
following day, 22 October 2021, backdated to the date of the purchase. That refund has not 
been removed. Tesco has said that it raised a chargeback claim which was not defended by 
the merchant and so a refund was made. 
Mr C did not however withdraw his complaint, so one of our investigators considered it. In 
her assessment she noted that Mr C had received a refund. And she explained that this 
service cannot consider a complaint which is about complaint-handling itself. In the 
circumstances she did not consider that Tesco needed to do anything more to resolve Mr 
Cs complaint. He did not however accept the investigators view and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case. He said that some of what the investigator had said about the 
account being refunded was not true according to his records  although he did not 
elaborate.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied first of all that Mr C has received a full refund here. That is shown on his 
account statements. I am satisfied too that this was the result of a successful chargeback 
claim initiated by Tesco. As far as I am aware, Mr C has not returned the scooter which was 
delivered to him. He has in effect had a scooter at no cost to himself  albeit not the one he 
ordered and one which he says has some defects. I have had that in mind when considering 
what is fair and reasonable and whether Tesco ought to do any more.
In my view, by securing a full refund within a reasonable time, Tesco has dealt with Mr Cs 
underlying claim in a fair manner. I do not believe I can fairly make an award requiring it to 
do any more. I appreciate that Mr C thinks this service should have carried out a more 
detailed investigation. I do not believe however that any further investigation would have 
resulted in a better outcome for Mr C, given he received a full refund.
Where a complaint is determined in favour of a complainant, my determination of that 
complaint can include a money award. A money award can include compensation for, 
amongst other things, inconvenience. In some cases, inconvenience can arise from (or be 
exacerbated by) a businesss handling of a complaint. But complaint-handling is not in itself 
an activity about which we can consider a complaint. And, since I am not determining this 
complaint if Mr Cs favour, I have no power to make an award in recognition of any 
inconvenience he feels he was put to in bringing it. I do not intend therefore to comment any 
further on that issue.
I will for completeness comment briefly on section 75, since Mr C asked that his complaint 
be considered under it. The effect of section 75 is that, in certain circumstances, a customer 
who has a claim for breach of contract against a supplier of goods has a like claim against 
the provider of a credit card used to buy those goods. The supplier here acknowledged that 
it sent the wrong scooter, so there can be no doubt in my view that there was a breach of 
contract and, therefore, a valid claim under section 75. I do not however need to comment 
any further on that, since Mr C has received a full refund through a different route.  
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Tesco Personal Finance PLC to 
do anything more to resolve Mr Cs complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman