DRN-3257949
The complaint
Mrs T Has complained about her motor insurer Aviva Insurance Limited as she thinks it took 
too long to record her accident claim as non-fault which prevented repairs from commencing.
What happened
Mrs T had an accident in June 2021, it was caused by a lorry driver and was witnessed by 
another driver. Mrs T made a claim and Aviva told her she could repair her car. But an 
excess would have to be paid  and that would be more than the standard excess as Mrs T 
wanted to use a garage that wasnt on its approved list. Mrs T felt it was unfair for her to 
have to pay the excess  she felt if Aviva called the witness it would be able to accept her 
claim on a non-fault basis which she believed would mean the car could be repaired without 
her paying anything. Aviva contacted the other insurer and said it was viewing this as its fault 
 the other insurer said it was considering its position.
In September 2021, Aviva did speak to Mrs Ts witness and he agreed to provide a 
statement. A few days later the other insurer said it had accepted full liability for the incident. 
But as Mrs T hadnt agreed to paying her excess, her car hadnt been assessed or repaired, 
so Aviva still had no idea of costs. Aviva decided it would waive the excess and told Mrs T 
so. It also assured her that as fault had been accepted her no claims bonus wouldnt be 
affected by the accident.
But Mrs T was unhappy with this. She said shed had losses as shed tried to get cover 
elsewhere but when this claim had been found out about the new insurer had cancelled her 
policy. And shed had difficulty getting around without a car, which had also affected her 
health and her ability to work. She felt Aviva had been negligent in what it had done which 
had caused her a lot of upset and inconvenience. Mrs T said her car should have been fixed 
within a week, and would have been if Aviva hadnt failed to contact her witness. Aviva felt it 
hadnt done anything wrong, and it noted the policy term requiring that, in the first instance, 
the policyholder must pay the excess (although this was in fact waived). Mrs T complained to 
us.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think Aviva had acted unreasonably 
in handling the claim, including in initially requiring Mrs T to pay the excess. Mrs T was 
unhappy. She said she felt that the only reason for our investigator to not see how badly 
Aviva had acted, and the impact that had had on her, was discrimination. Our investigator 
assured Mrs T that was not the case and Mrs T asked for an ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mrs T feels that Aviva should have contacted her witness immediately. But 
even doing that wouldnt have meant the claim could, initially, have been recorded any 
differently. Thats because until liability is agreed between the relevant insurers, claims are 
logged as open/fault. And it was never the case that Aviva didnt believe Mrs Ts account of 
the accident  within ten days of it being notified to it, Aviva had told the other insurer that it 
was holding it responsible. But however Aviva viewed the liability position was irrelevant until 
the other insurer accepted it. When the other insurer did accept liability, it did so without 
having seen any statement from the witness. So Aviva not contacting Mrs Ts witness, in the 
first few days or even weeks after the accident, didnt, I dont think, materially delay liability 
being agreed. And until it was, the claim naturally showed as one of open/fault. 
It is possible that if the witness had been contacted, a statement taken and presented to the 
other insurer, that the other insurer would have accepted liability earlier. But Im not 
confident that is what would most likely have happened. And in saying that Im mindful that 
I see many claims where other insurers dont give much weight to evidence from other 
drivers. And in some cases I see other insurers just take a while to respond to any contact or 
evidence presented to them. Here I can see that whilst Aviva first approached the other 
insurer on 22 June, it was only in mid-July that the other insurer confirmed it had acted to 
contact its policyholder to gather their side of the story. I think the other insurer would always 
have wanted to do that, regardless of what Aviva sent it in the first instance.
But its also the case, that getting an agreement of liability from another insurer doesnt 
mean claims can progress without the policy excess being paid. A policyholder in agreeing 
to cover agrees to pay an excess in the event of a claim  and the policy doesnt make 
allowances for fault or non-fault claims. Regardless of who caused the damage, the 
policyholder is liable to pay the excess. And then, if liability for the accident is accepted by 
the other insurer, and it agrees to cover the cost of the excess, the excess can be refunded 
to the policyholder by the other insurer. An insurer of a policyholder, in a non-fault accident, 
wont usually forego payment of the policy excess just because it believes, and/or the other 
insurer has accepted, the other driver is at fault. 
On this occasion, once liability was accepted, Aviva did agree to waive Mrs Ts excess. But it 
wasn't under any obligation to do that. And Im not persuaded this would have been 
something it would always have been prepared to do. Certainly not immediately and without 
question. Im satisfied its most likely that if it had achieved an agreement on liability, from 
the other insurer, within the first few days after the loss, it would still have insisted on Mrs T 
agreeing to pay the excess before progressing the repair of her car. In time, if Mrs T had 
refused, Aviva might have taken the view to waive the excess as it eventually did anyway  
but the repairs would still have been delayed in the meantime. If Mrs T hadnt refused to pay 
the excess, then her car could have been repaired even whilst Aviva was waiting for the 
other insurer to accept liability. That is the normal process and simply the way the insurance 
industry usually works.
Similarly, its not unusual for insurers to want to know, when policies are agreed, about 
ongoing claims as well as to be given accurate information about how many years a 
policyholder has been insured without making a claim. Whilst I know Mrs T has had an issue 
with another insurer cancelling a policy because of the ongoing claim with Aviva, Im not 
persuaded that Aviva can fairly be held responsible for the other insurers decisions. 
Its not clear to me if Mrs T has found other cover since that cancellation. But I note she has 
referred to being charged more for cover now than she used to be. Its possible  the effect 
of the cancellation aside, that the unresolved claim was impacting what she was being 
charged. But liability has now been established, and its clear Mrs Ts no claims bonus wont 
be affected by the accident. And I see Aviva confirmed both those things in an email to 
Mrs T. So Mrs T might now see her future premiums reduce. If she is currently insured, she 
may wish to contact her current insurer with a copy of the email confirmation Aviva provided, 
to see if it will amend what it has so far charged her for cover. Im sorry to learn Mrs Ts health, and her ability to work, have been affected, not just by the 
delay in getting her car repaired, but also by the accident itself. Mrs T can use her policy to 
make a personal injury claim for injuries sustained in the accident. She should contact Aviva 
to progress a claim for this if she wants to. I understand it must have been difficult for Mrs T 
to manage without a car in the months since the accident. But, as explained above, I dont 
think Aviva is responsible for her car not being repaired during all that time. As such I cant 
fairly lay blame at its door for the consequences of Mrs T not having had use of her car.
I appreciate that Mrs T will be disappointed by my decision. That is regrettable. But I can 
assure her that I would have reached the same decision for any policyholder and 
complainant in the same circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman