DRN-2888909
The complaint
Mr Ps unhappy British Gas Services Limited cancelled his homecare policy after advising 
him they were unable to cover his boiler.
What happened
In April 2019, Mr P contacted British Gas after his tenants reported a timer issue on the 
boiler in a property he rented out. Mr P opted to sign up for a homecare policy which allowed 
him to pay a fixed fee of £99 for the immediate fault to be looked at and then provided him 
ongoing cover for £25 per month.
An engineer for British Gas visited Mr Ps property but they couldnt replicate the fault with 
the timer, so advised Mr Ps tenants to contact British Gas again if the fault recurred.
In October 2019, Mr Ps tenants told him the boiler kept cutting out, so he contacted British 
Gas to make a claim under his homecare policy.
British Gas sent out an engineer who identified several faults with the boiler. They said as 
there was no record a first visit inspection had previously been carried out, the boiler could 
not be covered.
Mr P disputed this saying the first visit inspection had been conducted when the engineer 
looked at the original fault in April 2019. Mr P says the advisor he spoke to agreed 
someone had visited the property in April 2019, so a further engineer visit was arranged, 
but this engineer reached the same conclusion as the previous one. As the boiler could not 
be covered, British Gas arranged for a full refund of the premiums Mr P had paid.
Mr P complained to British Gas disputing their engineers diagnosis. He also provided 
documentation left by the engineer that had attended the property in April 2019 which he 
says confirms a first visit had been completed.
In the meantime, being unable to leave his tenants without a boiler, Mr P arranged for an
independent engineer to inspect it. The engineer deemed the boiler irreparable and it was 
replaced at Mr Ps expense.
British Gas investigated but said as no first visit had been conducted prior to the boiler being 
inspected in October 2019, during which multiple issues were identified, his policy had been 
correctly cancelled and they were unable to provide him cover. They also said the 
documentation Mr P had provided was not evidence a first visit had been completed in    
April 2019.
Mr P remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into things and felt it was clear a first visit had not been 
completed in April 2019. And, whilst he felt it was clear that errors had occurred resulting in 
the first visit not having been booked in sooner, he thought British Gas had done enough to 
put things right by refunding the premiums Mr P had paid and waiving the initial repair visit 
fee of £99, which had never been taken in April 2019.
Mr P disagreed saying the first visit is always deemed as the first time British Gas visit the 
property, which in his case was April 2019. And, if during the first visit no underlying issues 
are found the boiler is taken under cover. He said one of the engineers that had visited in 
October 2019 told him had the first visit been completed in April 2019 they wouldve been 
able to carry out the repairs.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After reviewing the complaint, I didnt agree with our investigator. So I issued a provisional 
decision on 17 June 2021. In this I said:
It isnt in dispute a first visit is required before British Gas confirm they are willing to provide 
cover under their homecare policy. The crux of Mr Ps complaint is that he believes when 
the engineer visited his property a few days after he took out the policy, he believed this to 
be the first visit and that it was at this point his boiler was accepted on cover.
When Mr P took out the homecare policy, hed called British Gas to report a specific issue. 
He took out a repair and cover contract that carried an £99 fee for the initial repair visit and 
then provided him continuous cover for a £25 monthly premium. Id have expected British 
Gas to have arranged for a first service visit to take place at this point.
Mr P received a homecare welcome letter advising if a first service had not already been 
booked, he should contact British Gas to book one in. Furthermore, it said it was during this 
service the engineer would check British Gas could cover the boiler. But Mr P says he 
thought this had already been booked and the engineer was scheduled to visit only days 
later.
But British Gas hadnt booked the service in, and instead had arranged for an engineer to 
visit regarding only the specific fault Mr P had raised. Its important to say British Gas are 
the experts here, and I wouldnt expect Mr P to necessarily understand what work an 
engineer carried out or shouldve carried out when visiting his property.
When the engineer visited the property, he left a checklist. The checklist confirmed at the 
time:
the appliance operation was safe,
the appliance flue and ventilation was safe, and
the functional parts were all available.
I understand the checklist also had a section for an annual service which was crossed 
through as not applicable. British Gas say this checklist was only used for an annual 
service or repair visit. British Gas has also provided a copy of a more detailed first visit 
checklist.
Again, its not in dispute that a first service wasnt completed but I cant reasonably say    
Mr P shouldve known that, from the documentation he was provided. He certainly couldnt 
have been expected to know there was a separate checklist for completion on a first visit.
The terms and conditions of the home care policy say If your product includes a first 
service it is usually carried out in the first 42 days of you taking out the product or changing 
address.But it wasnt. British Gas set up Mr Ps policy and continued to take premiums. British Gas 
have acknowledged due to corruption with the engineers job report in April 2019 it was 
never recognised on their system. This caused some confusion when booking the 
engineer visits in October 2019, but more importantly it meant the reminder Mr P shouldve 
got to book his first service did not happen. Had it done, Im satisfied this wouldve alerted 
Mr P he wasnt on cover much sooner and allowed him to have acted.
Had Mr P reasonably been made aware he needed to act sooner Im persuaded his boiler 
wouldve more likely than not have been accepted on cover.
I understand British Gas say the independent engineer ultimately having to replace Mr Ps 
boiler, supports their position it wasnt suitable for contract. But this was in October 2019 
and Ive seen no evidence to suggest his boiler wasnt suitable for cover six months prior.
When reporting the fault in April 2019, Mr P only raised an issue regarding the timer. When 
the engineer visited at that time, he made no reference to any issues with the boiler, and 
even the timer fault Mr P had reported could not be found. Mr P also raised no further 
issues with the boiler over the following months which Id have expected to have seen had 
the boiler already been carrying multiple issues.
British Gas sent Mr P a cancellation letter in October 2019 stating as a result of not being 
able to get the parts they needed for his type of boiler, they couldnt continue to service or 
repair it. Had the boiler already been placed on cover at this point the homecare policy 
wouldve provided a replacement in these circumstances, providing the boiler was less than 
seven years old.
Mr P has already confirmed his boiler was only two and a half years old at the time.
And as Ive already explained above, Im persuaded his boiler wouldve more likely than not 
have been accepted on cover had the first service been completed sooner, as it should have 
been.
So, it follows I intend to say British Gas should reimburse what it cost Mr P to replace his 
boiler (£1,650). British Gas should deduct the premiums it originally refunded Mr P (£282) 
from this amount which hed have paid had he remained on cover.
British Gas should also pay 8% simple interest on £1,368 from the date Mr P paid the 
invoice until the date of settlement. If British Gas deducts tax from the interest e of
this award, it should provide Mr P with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
British Gas also acknowledged Mr P was never charged the initial £99 repair visit fee in  
April 2019 but agreed to waive this to reflect any distress and inconvenience caused by their 
system errors regarding the job record for that visit. I think this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. So the case has been passed back to me for
a final decision.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision, my final decision remains the same.
Putting things right
I require British Gas Services Limited to do the following:1. Pay Mr P £1,368. (The cost incurred by Mr P to replace his boiler minus the
premiums he wouldve paid had he been on cover).
2. Pay 8% simple interest on £1,368, calculated from the date he paid the invoice until the 
date of settlement.  
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ps complaint. British Gas Services Limited must put things right as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman