DRN-2184998
The complaint
Mrs J complains that she was mis-sold her finance agreement as she was incorrectly told 
that it incorporated a part exchange of her old car.
What happened
Mrs J was coming to the end of her finance agreement for her old car in May 2019. In April 
2019 Mrs J went into a Mercedes dealership to discuss her options. Mrs J says that she was 
told she could part-exchange her old car for a new car and she explains that she negotiated 
a deal for the new car on that basis.
Mrs J says she made arrangements to hand her old car back as she thought this was part of 
the process. After Mrs J had collected her new car she was surprised to receive an invoice 
for excess mileage charges relating to the old car. Mrs J complained to MBFS that she 
would never have gone through with the deal if it had been made clear to her that she wasnt 
part-exchanging the car. 
MBFS didnt uphold Mrs Js complaint and it said that there was no evidence that a part-
exchange was ever part of the arrangement. Mrs J brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend that it was upheld. They 
thought that there wasnt enough evidence that a part exchange was agreed as part of the 
deal or that Mrs J was misled.
Mrs J didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. In summary she 
said that her recollection was clear that a part exchange was part of the deal and that she 
was misled by the sales person. She said that she had not been given the information that 
the investigator had based his decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to assure Mrs J that I have reviewed all of the information in relation to her 
complaint. There is nothing that I have seen that has been withheld from Mrs J. 
Mrs J explains that there were conversations that took place at the dealership during the 
process of negotiating for the new car which made it clear that a part exchange was part of 
the deal. The dealership has said that there is no paperwork that confirms this. I have not 
seen any information from the sale representative other than his email of the 21 June which 
confirms he reviewed the deal and it was a hand back to the finance company rather than a 
part exchange.
I dont doubt that Mrs J was under the impression that the excess mileage would not be 
charged for. I dont know exactly what was said to her at the time of negotiations either.
Where evidence is incomplete or contradictory, as some of it is here, I have looked at the 
paperwork to assist me in deciding what is more likely than not to have happened. 
Mrs J had covered well over the agreed mileage in her old car. When it was valued at the 
dealership a figure of £9,500 was quoted according to the notes made by Mrs J at the time. 
Mrs N was also told that the finance outstanding on her car was £11,360. Mrs J made a note 
that her car was in negative equity.
From the documents I have seen a finance quotation was generated for Mrs J for a new 
Mercedes A 180d sport costing £26,123. Included within that quotation was a part-exchange 
for her old car. The car trade in value was £9,500, a deposit of £2898.97 was added and the 
settlement amount of £11,360 was deducted. Looking at Mrs Js handwritten notes on that 
quotation I can see that her monthly payment was £387.80 and an optional final payment 
was £10,525.
Mrs J notes also show that other options were discussed there are notes for a deposit of 
£1,000 which would result in a repayment of £397.07 and a deposit of £3000 which would 
result in a repayment of £350.51. There is a further page of notes which states trade in and 
buy new no cost.  
From the notes I can see that Mrs J wanted to pay around £350 for 48 months with a £1000 
deposit.
I have looked at the finance agreement that Mrs J signed. It shows that the price of the car 
was £26.982.86 and Mrs J paid £1000 deposit. The dealership also made a contribution to 
the deposit and it appears that it paid for some extras on the car. The monthly repayment 
was £369.60. There is nothing in this agreement that mentions settling the finance on the 
previous car or the negative equity being added into this agreement. 
Mrs J took steps to return her old car via a third party as part of the de-fleet process. It was 
not swapped over at the time of collecting the new car as a part-exchange would ordinarily 
be. I can understand why Mrs J may have thought that this was the process for returning a 
car but I think it is more likely that it had been agreed that the car would be handed back 
rather than added to the new car deal as a part exchange.   
As I said, I dont doubt Mrs J when she says that she thought that the car would be part 
exchanged but it seems from her notes that a number of options were discussed. Mrs J 
knew that the car was in negative equity and she would either have to find around £2,000, 
either financed into the new deal to make up the negative equity or pay the excess mileage 
charge of a similar amount. This amount was always going to be payable either as a deposit 
or higher monthly repayment on a new deal or as a charge on return. I cant say that Mrs J 
wasnt aware of this. 
I dont think it is likely that Mrs J was told that the excess mileage would not be payable 
because she was entering into a part exchange agreement. This isnt reflected in the 
financial agreement she signed and this agreement does not reflect the figures she was 
initially given in the part exchange quotation.
Mrs J has talked about the options in her customer journey document and she was told she 
was part exchanging. I think its likely that all of the options were discussed as part of the 
process and looking at Mrs Js notes it seems that a number of things were discussed. It 
seems likely that Mrs J was only able to achieve the desired deposit and monthly repayment 
if the part exchange was left out of the deal. It isnt surprising that Mrs J drew the 
conclusions that she did given the discussions, but I am not persuaded on the basis of the evidence I have seen that Mrs J was misled into entering into her current agreement on the 
basis that the excess mileage charge would not be payable.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman