DRN-3231300
The complaint
Mr G complains that a car he took from MotoNovo Finance Limited was not of satisfactory 
quality. 
What happened
In February 2021 Mr G entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo. 
The car which was the subject of the agreement had been first registered in April 2016, had 
covered just under 40,000 miles and was priced at a little over £28,500. Mr G paid a deposit 
of £4,000.
Mr G says that in May 2021 the car lost power. He had it recovered and taken to a garage 
for inspection. He was told there was evidence of metal particles in the engine oil. It was 
suggested that the engine might need replacing. 
Mr G contacted MotoNovo about the problem. It arranged for an independent inspection of 
the car. That was initially inconclusive, as the cars battery had been disconnected so it 
could be transported safely. The report, when it was prepared, said that the car displayed 
signs of engine wear, most likely caused by a lack of engine oil. There were however no 
signs of any oil leaks. 
Mr G had said too that there were knocking noises when he changed gear and that one of 
the windows was not operating correctly. The independent report said that it was not 
possible to investigate the gear issue, because of the cars condition; it did not comment on 
the window. 
The report concluded that the faults that had been identified were unlikely to have been 
present or developing at the point of supply and that the supplier  MotoNovo  was not 
responsible for them.
Largely on the basis of the conclusions of the independent inspection, MotoNovo said that it 
did not accept that it was liable for the faults that the inspection had identified.
Mr G said that he had been unaware of any issue with the oil level. The car was not due for 
a service and was not displaying any oil warning lights. He referred the matter to this service. 
Our investigator considered what had happened and issued a preliminary view of the case. 
He thought that the evidence, when considered overall, indicated that the car had not been 
of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. He recommended that MotoNovo agree to end 
the hire purchase agreement and make certain refunds to Mr G. MotoNovo did not accept 
the investigators view. It said that it was not reasonable of Mr G to rely solely on the cars 
electronic monitoring of oil levels and that he should provide more evidence to show that it 
was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. It asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, the hire purchase agreement was to be read as 
including a term that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. That means the 
quality that a reasonable person would expect in the circumstances  including, for example, 
the cars age, mileage and price. This car was nearly five years old when Mr G acquired it 
and its mileage was not especially high. Its price also reflected the cars age and mileage 
and was about a third of what a similar vehicle would have cost new. 
The Consumer Rights Act also says that, where goods are found not be of satisfactory 
quality within six months of supply, there is an assumption that they were not satisfactory at 
the point of supply. 
In this case, the car suffered a serious failure after about three months. The evidence 
suggests that the car requires a new engine or, at the very least, replacement of major 
engine parts. It seems that was because the engine oil was low. 
I would not expect a car of this age and mileage to suffer such a serious failure within a few 
months of supply. I think it is reasonable too to expect that a dealer would have checked 
standard service issues (such as engine oil levels) before supplying a car to a customer. I do 
not accept that  in the absence of any warning that there was a problem  Mr G should 
have checked the oil level manually. 
Mr G had not used the car excessively in the three months before the failure. He had driven 
about 3,600 miles  not enough that I would expect, in the absence of an existing problem, 
for the oil to need topping up.
The inspection report commissioned by MotoNovo identified the problem as being caused by 
metal particles in the engine oil. That was consistent with what the first specialist garage 
concluded. But it went on to conclude that this was not a problem that was present or 
developing at the point of supply. The report does not, however, explain the reasons for that 
conclusion. It does not, for example, identify any event or use of the car which might have 
led to the engine losing oil. 
Given (i) the short period between the supply of the car to Mr G and the fault coming to light 
and (ii) the seriousness of the fault, I think its reasonable to assume that the fault was 
present at the point of delivery. MotoNovo has not, in my view, shown that anything Mr G did 
or not do caused the engine failure; nor has it suggested that the failure was caused by any 
other event after delivery of the car. In saying that, I note that the inspection, whilst 
independent, was carried out on MotoNovos instructions. MotoNovo was therefore in a 
position to ask the inspecting engineer to explain his findings in more detail or to seek to 
identify more precisely the reason for the metal particles in the engine oil. Given the 
provisions of the Consumer Rights Act, I do not believe it was reasonable to expect Mr G to 
do that. 
In my view, therefore, the car was most likely not of satisfactory quality when it was provided 
to Mr G.        Putting things right
I have considered the most appropriate remedy here. Whilst repairs might be possible, they 
are likely to be expensive and time-consuming. Mr G has been unable to use the car for a 
long time but has (I understand) continued to make monthly payments. In my view, the 
fairest remedy would be to put him  as far as possible  in the position he would have been 
in if he had not taken the car at all. 
I have considered whether a full refund of Mr Gs deposit of £4,000 is appropriate. It was 
paid in the expectation that the hire purchase agreement would run its course, and Mr G did 
have a few months use of the car  in part in exchange for the deposit. Given the relatively 
short period of time before the cars failure, however, I think that a full refund is appropriate.     
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that, to resolve Mr Gs complaint in full, MotoNovo 
Finance Limited should:
end the hire purchase agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr G;
refund any monthly payments made after 19 May 2021 (the date from which Mr G has 
been unable to use the car), backdating the payments so that interest is refunded at the 
rate in the hire purchase agreement;
refund Mr Gs deposit of £4,000, together with interest at the rate in the agreement from 
the date of payment until the date of the refund; 
pay Mr G £100 in recognition of any inconvenience to which he has been put; and 
remove any adverse credit information which may have been registered as a result of 
the hire purchase agreement.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman