DRN-3758634
The complaint
Mr S has complained about his motor insurer Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited 
as he thinks it failed to properly repair his car following an accident.
What happened
Mr S had an accident which was not his fault and LV took his car in for repair. Mr S felt the 
repair took too long and he wasnt convinced the repairer would do a good job. So LV had an 
engineer assess the car before it was returned to Mr S. Mr S was still unhappy with the car 
when it was returned to him. LV accepted there had been some delays and offered £150 
compensation but said it was happy with the report by its engineer. It discussed with Mr S 
him getting his own report but also that as it was happy with its report, Mr S could complain 
to us. Mr S did.
Our Investigator, noting an engineer report Mr S had provided, said LV should complete 
further repairs in line with the findings of that report. As well as reimburse its cost to Mr S. 
But he felt that the £150 compensation LV had offered was fair and reasonable.
Mr S said he felt that more work was required than even his engineer had recommended. LV 
said it hadnt seen the report. Whilst this was shared with it and it said it would pay the cost 
of repairs detailed, it said it wouldnt reimburse the cost of the report. Mr S wasnt minded to 
agree to the engineers recommended repair costs alone. He said that was not least 
because he would have to hire a replacement car whilst his was being repaired.
The complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans consideration. I felt LV should be 
fixing the problems its garage had created and putting Mr S in a hire car whilst the work is 
done. I felt that the work to be done had already been determined by Mr Ss engineer, with 
the exception of the further assessment being needed once the exterior of the boot floor was 
stripped. And I gave direction about how that should be assessed. I also said LV should pay 
Mr S a total of £300 compensation.
My provisional findings were:
The main repair issues in question are the paint finish, the boot floor repair and misaligned 
tailgate which, as I understand it, is allowing water into the car. Mr Ss engineer found that 
work was needed to the tailgate and the boot floor, but that the garage having repaired the 
boot floor, as opposed to replacing it, was acceptable. And Mr Ss engineer didnt think the 
paint finish needed rectifying.
LV now seems to have accepted the engineers findings. I can understand that it would have 
wanted to see these before the complaint came to us. But I dont think it was entirely clear 
with Mr S in this respect. And its final position put to Mr S was that it was happy with the 
findings of its engineer and if he was unhappy with that, he could complain to us. Notably LV 
did not say it was happy but would review upon sight of an engineers report from Mr S. In 
any event, the report has changed the course of Mr Ss complaint about LVs poor repairs. 
And if LV had completed a satisfactory repair Mr S would not have had to pay for the report. 
So LV should be reimbursing its cost to Mr S, plus interest* from the date it was paid for until 
settlement is made. Mr S will have to send LV proof of payment.
I know Mr S is unhappy with the extent of the findings of his engineer. But Ive seen nothing 
that makes me think the engineers findings are most likely generally flawed. The engineer 
said that repairing the boot floor, as opposed to replacing it was acceptable. I know Mr S has 
said that if he had known a repair was going to be done, hed have gone elsewhere, had the 
floor replaced and billed the third party direct. But I cant be certain hed have been 
successful in recouping his outlay in this respect. Both Mr Ss engineer and that sent by LV 
initially felt that repairing the boot floor was acceptable. So it seems likely to me that the 
third-party would have disputed the cost of replacing the floor, and may only have paid Mr S 
for the what it would have cost to have it repaired. Im not persuaded LV failed Mr S in this 
respect.
I know Mr Ss engineer has said he hasnt been able to check the quality of the repair from 
the underside of the boot  but that this should be checked once the paint and filler, which 
he felt had been applied poorly and excessively by LVs garage, had been removed. And Im 
satisfied that this should be borne in mind when the remedial work to the car is undertaken. 
But the fact that the quality of the work completed needs to be checked further, doesnt 
mean that the repair method itself was unsuitable. Mr Ss engineer said it was suitable and 
so Ive no grounds on which to reasonably require LV to replace the boot floor. 
I understand that Mr S wants the paint finish rectifying. He says it needs blending as there is 
currently a mismatch at both ends of the bumper with the rear quarter panels. However, 
Mr Ss engineer says there is only a poor mismatch on one end. The engineer attributed the 
mismatch to a previous paint repair to the quarter panel on that end and said that if an 
attempt was made to blend this area (with the bumper), that would cause a mismatch with 
the rear door. For that reason the engineer hasnt recommended any rework. Mr S thinks 
that as he had a totally matching car before and he doesnt now, LV has not properly 
indemnified him for the accident. He thinks it must put him into the position he was before 
the accident.
Without completely rebuilding a car it isnt always possible for a repair to be done with 
absolutely no sign being left showing that something was fixed. But an insurer only has to 
reinstate the car as closely as reasonably possible to how it was before. And regarding 
paintwork specifically, colour matching can be a highly subjective issue  what seems 
acceptable to one person might appear quite contrasting to another. So, this service often 
relies on the opinion of experts to consider whether an acceptable (reasonable) match has 
been achieved. In the case of one end of Mr Ss bumper, Mr Ss engineer was satisfied it 
had been. But regarding the other end he felt there was a noticeable mismatch. And, in that 
respect, I think that Mr S has a point  he didnt have a mismatched car before. I cant see a 
mismatch on the damage photos. And whilst I accept that capturing colour match on photos 
isnt always possible, if there had been a noticeable mismatch Id have expected that to have 
been spotted by the repairing garage. I say that because where necessary repairs involve 
painting part of a car any pre-existing mismatch would mean the repaired car would also be 
mismatched. Which would potentially give the cars owner cause to complain. So repairing 
garages are usually careful to make sure pre-existing damage like this is noted before 
repairs begin. As no issue was noted or highlighted here, and I cant see any mismatch on 
the available photos, I must reasonably conclude there was no previous mismatch.
I know Mr Ss engineer has put the mismatch down to the paint finish on the quarter panel 
being poor quality. And I know Mr S disputes that the car has been repainted at all prior to 
this incident. But none of that really matters because regardless of the condition of the 
quarter panel, that was not causing a mismatch before. The mismatch has arisen only 
because of LVs repairs. So LV needs to resolve that mismatch and ensure Mr S, within acceptable standards, has a car with matching paintwork, as that is what he had before the 
accident and LVs repairs.
As LV has accepted the engineers report and Mr S has no concerns about the other aspects 
it discussed, including the tailgate, I wont review its contents further. Except in respect of the 
costs set out for necessary repairs. That is necessary because Mr S doesnt want the 
original garage to complete repairs. And LV has offered a cash payment so Mr S can do the 
repairs himself. That offer is based on the costs detailed in the report but Mr S is not happy 
with it. And, regarding the paintwork, Ive found work is necessary that the engineer didnt 
recommend and so didnt allow for in the costing. So to ensure this complaint is fully 
resolved, how the necessary rework must be done needs some comment from me. 
One issues about the work to be done can be resolved fairly simply. Mr S needs a car to 
drive whilst his is being repaired. However, the damage claim resolves, LV should arrange 
for Mr S to have a car, with similar attributes to his own, to drive whilst his is being repaired 
in line with the engineers report with the additional work to resolve the paint finish which 
I have found is necessary. 
But the more complex issue of who is going to complete the repair remains. Mr S doesnt 
want the original garage to complete the repair and Ive found LV is responsible for work not 
costed by Mr Ss engineer. And as mentioned above, the engineer also recommends a 
further assessment of the boot repair once the area has been cleared. Whilst I hope it 
doesnt, that assessment might result in further work being required, the cost for which has 
not been allowed for by the engineer. So LVs offer to settle in cash for the total set out in the 
engineers report isnt a fair and reasonable remedy. If LV and Mr S do want to settle this 
matter in cash then LV will have to add to its offer a sum to cover the cost of rectifying the 
paintwork and an agreement for the boot floor repair to be reviewed, with the cost for any 
additional work necessary, if poor work is found, to be covered. 
I think though my recommending a cash settlement, with allowances for extra costs being 
built into it, would not the best way forward on this occasion. Mr S would have to arrange 
everything, work might have to pause whilst reviews are undertaken which his garage might 
not like and LV would have no liability for the further work completed. I dont think its fair for 
me to put Mr S into that position. Not given that the further work to his car is only needed 
due to LVs poor repair. 
So that leaves me with the option of requiring LV to complete the further rework. Often, 
where only one occasion of poor work has occurred, this service will let an insurer revert to 
the original repairer for rework to be done. But I dont think that would be productive or a 
workable solution in this case. Clearly there have already been concerns raised by Mr S 
about the original garage and some delays in the original work did occur. I think Mr S, not 
unreasonably, has lost faith in LVs garage. So I think the best way forwards is for LV to 
complete the rework by appointing another repairer. 
The new repairer will need to undertake the work Mr Ss engineer recommended as 
necessary due to the incident and/or repairs. Further, once the underside of the boot floor 
has been revealed, Mr Ss engineer, if he is willing to do so, paid for by LV, should assess 
the revealed repair to determine if it is satisfactory, and if it isnt what is needed to resolve 
that. LVs garage should complete any further work recommended by the engineer, or if 
none is, reinstate the area with an acceptable finish. If Mr Ss engineer is not able to assist, 
another engineer will have to be appointed by LV to asses and comment on, and where 
necessary make recommendations about, the revealed boot floor repair. In addition, 
regarding the mismatched paintwork where the rear bumper meets the off-side rear quarter 
panel; the new repairer should rectify the paint finish so that an acceptable match is achieved, in order that Mr S is left with a car that has acceptably matching paintwork. This 
will put him in the position, as closely as reasonably possible, to that he was in before. 
I know LV has previously given Mr S £150 compensation. It said this was in respect of upset 
he was caused by its delays. But I think that Mr S has also been upset and inconvenienced 
by LVs poor repair. Not least he had to arrange for his car to be assessed by an engineer. 
I think LV should pay Mr S a further £150 compensation. Making the total compensation due 
to Mr S, £300.
LV said it had nothing further to add. Mr S sent his invoice for the inspection, explaining it 
had been paid to allow the inspection to go ahead on 23 March 2022. He said hed like the 
repair to be done locally to avoid delays. And also that it not be part of the group which had 
worked on his car before. Mr S gave an example of what he felt was a similar complaint to 
his, assessed by this service, where £500 compensation had been awarded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill ask our Investigator to pass the invoice on to LV. 
It does seem to make sense, and it might avoid delays to have the repair done locally. But 
I cant reasonably direct LV to do this as I dont know what repairing garages it has access to 
other than the original garage which Ive said cant be used again, or what the workload and 
availability of each may be. But I think its fair to say that LV will be keen to keep things like 
the hire cost to a minimum and will want to avoid the possibility of a further complaint. So 
I think it will be arranging for the further work to be done with all that in mind. 
As noted, above and provisionally, a different garage is to be used for the re-work. I said that 
was necessary to (hopefully) avoid further complaint. I dont think that would be achieved if 
the garage was different but still part of the same group of businesses as the original 
repairer. So it follows, that the new garage should be independent of the original garage and 
the group it belonged to. 
I can see why Mr S thinks the other complaint decided upon by our service is similar to his, 
and why he thinks he should, therefore, be entitled to a higher compensation award. But 
each case is taken on its own merits, with the Ombudsman deciding each case considering 
what compensation is fairly and reasonably due in the specific circumstances that complaint 
turns on. I didnt assess the other case so I cant say for sure why the other Ombudsman 
awarded £500. But I do spot some difference compared to Mr Ss circumstances. So in the 
example case the insurer had tried, on more than once occasion to fix the complainants car. 
And, importantly, not only had it completed poor repairs, the garage had neglected the car 
whilst in its care, which had also resulted in it being damaged. Here Mr S noted poor work 
after LVs first repair and the debate about that poor work has been the subject of this 
complaint. So I dont think the example case is a direct comparator for Mr S. And Im 
satisfied, having assessed Mr Ss complaint that £300 is fair and reasonable compensation. 
Putting things right
I require LV to:
Reimburse Mr S the cost of his engineers report, subject to proof of payment being 
provided, plus interest* from the date it was paid for until settlement is made.
Provide Mr S with a car, similar to his own, to use whilst his is being repaired.Appoint a garage to complete work on Mr Ss car that his engineer recommended was 
necessary due to the incident and/or repair. Including removing excess paint and filler 
from the underside of the boot floor. 
Once the excess materials are removed, appoint Mr Ss engineer if he is available, or 
another if he is not, to assess the revealed repair, determine if it is satisfactory, and if 
it isnt make recommendations for repair.
Have the garage complete any work recommended to the boot floor. Or if the 
revealed repair is felt to be satisfactory, reinstate the area to an acceptable finish.
Resolve the paint mismatch identified by Mr Ss engineer in his report so that Mr S is 
left with a car that has an acceptably matching paint finish.
Pay Mr S a further £150 compensation, making total compensation £300 where £150 
has already been paid.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires LV to take off tax from this interest. If 
asked, it must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to provide 
the redress set out above at Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman