DRN-4223668
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr and Mrs S hold with Barclays Bank UK PLC. Mr S, 
who has dealt with the complaint throughout with the consent of Mrs S, has complained 
about the following:
the way payments are applied to his mortgage account;
poor customer service;
incorrectly applying a £25,000 overpayment to the interest-only part of the mortgage 
rather than the capital repayment part;
that Barclays cannot offer a term extension on his existing mortgage product;
the way Barclays has dealt with his complaint.
To settle the complaint Mr S wants a senior customer service manager to contact him, for 
Barclays to refund the incorrect mortgage payments that have been taken since April 2022, 
and adjust the mortgage account to its correct position. Mr S also wants compensation to 
reflect the prolonged and abysmal attitude and service provided by Barclays, and to 
complete the term extension on the mortgage as requested.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 26 May 2023. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. 
In addition, Barclays has accepted that it has made customer service errors and has offered 
compensation. I therefore dont need to analyse what happened in detail in order to decide if 
the bank has made an error; what I need to consider is whether Barclays had done enough 
to put things right, or if there are other errors the bank has made, for which it needs to do 
more.  
Finally, our decisions are published. Its therefore important I dont include any information 
that might lead to Mr and Mrs S being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my 
summary of what happened quite brief.
Mr and Mrs S have a mortgage with Barclays, taken out in 2019 when Mr and Mrs S 
borrowed just over £168,000, of which £135,000 is on an interest-only basis. The original 
mortgage term was 9 years 7 months. The mortgage is on a lifetime tracker rate of 0.69% 
above Bank of England Base Rate.
In April 2022 Mr S queried with Barclays why his payment was taken from his current 
account on the 18th of each month but wasnt applied to the mortgage until the end of the 
month. There were calls with several members of staff over a number of days until it was 
clarified by Barclays that there was no financial detriment to Mr and Mrs S by the payments 
being collected on a different date to the due date.
Mr and Mrs S also wanted to extend the term of the mortgage. After Mr S had initially spoken 
to a customer service agent (who explained he wasnt a mortgage adviser), the request was 
passed to a mortgage adviser. On 3 May 2022 Barclays mortgage adviser explained that the 
bank didnt offer term extensions for this particular lifetime tracker mortgage product; if 
Mr and Mrs S wanted a longer mortgage term, they would need to choose a new product. 
However, because the current mortgage was on a lower margin over base rate, Mr S didnt 
want to go ahead with changing the rate in order to extend the mortgage term.
In July 2022 Mr and Mrs S decided to pay off that part of the mortgage that was on a capital 
repayment basis, which was about £25,000. Barclays system is set up to apply 
overpayments first to the interest-only part of the mortgage, and so the payment was applied 
to that part of the mortgage, rather than the repayment part. This was later corrected and 
reversed, but it took about three months for this to happen.
On behalf of himself and Mrs S, Mr S complained to Barclays about the poor customer 
service theyd been given, about the way Barclays had dealt with the complaint, and about 
Barclays refusal to agree to a term extension on their existing mortgage product. Barclays 
paid compensation of £125, which Mr and Mrs S rejected.
As a result, a complaint was brought to our service. The investigator noted that it had taken 
some time and multiple calls before Barclays had been able to clarify that there was no 
financial disadvantage as a result of the payments being taken in the middle of the month. 
He was also satisfied that when Mr S initially discussed a term extension on 29 May 2022, 
the call handler explained that he wasnt a mortgage adviser. Although Mr S had been given 
information about the type of products that might be available, the investigator was satisfied 
that it had been made clear to Mr S that hed need to speak to a mortgage adviser about 
this.
After looking at everything that happened, the investigator thought that Barclays should 
increase its offer of compensation to £1,000 (to include the £125 already paid). This 
reflected the considerable inconvenience Mr S had been caused in trying to get his queries 
resolved.
Barclays agreed to this, but Mr S did not. Mr S has told us that his mortgage payments 
continue to be incorrect and the administration of the account remains fraudulently 
unsatisfactory.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents and 
multiple call recordings. Ive read everything and listened to all the call recordings, and its 
apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case than 
others. We provide an informal service, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because 
Ive ignored it; itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn rather than issues that have 
little or no impact on the broader outcome.
I have noted that much of Mr Ss complaint relates to his dissatisfaction about the way 
Barclays has dealt with his complaints, for example, failure to log a complaint, or to call him 
back to discuss his complaints. However, I must explain that this isnt something Im able to 
consider. This is because our rules only allow us to consider complaints about regulated activities. 
Complaint-handling isnt a regulated activity in its own right, nor is it one of the specified 
non-regulated activities that Im able to deal with under our compulsory jurisdiction. Its also 
not an activity thats ancillary to a regulated activity, such as account administration or 
advice. A complaint about the way Barclays dealt with a complaint doesnt fall within the 
scope of our rules, and so I dont have any legal power to consider Mr Ss dissatisfaction 
about this aspect of his complaint.
In relation to the issues I am able to consider, Ive reached the same outcome as the 
investigator, and have set out my reasons below.
Payment administration: I can see that Mr S was frustrated that Barclays wasnt initially 
able to answer his queries to his satisfaction, and that he had to speak to multiple members 
of staff. I also note that promised calls werent made, which led to Mr S becoming 
increasingly frustrated. Ultimately Barclays was able to provide Mr S with an answer to his 
query about how repayments were applied, and confirmed there was no detriment caused to 
him and Mrs S in relation to this. On the evidence provided, Ive not seen anything to 
suggest Barclays has made an error in its application of monthly repayments to the account, 
or that Mr and Mrs S have been over-charged interest.
If Mr and Mrs S are still unhappy about this its always open to them to have their account 
independently audited, at their own expense. If this audit was to show that Mr and Mrs S had 
suffered any detriment that could be attributed to any act or omission on the part of Barclays, 
they could bring a fresh complaint about this, and claim the cost of the audit in any redress. 
This service doesnt provide an auditing service, and we dont act for consumers, so it isnt 
something we are able to do for Mr and Mrs S.
Lump sum payment: Unfortunately when a lump sum payment was made to the account, 
intended to redeem the capital repayment part of the mortgage, it was incorrectly applied to 
the interest-only part of the mortgage. This caused some inconvenience for Mr and Mrs S, 
who had to get Barclays to correct its mistake. I can understand how upsetting this was for 
Mr and Mrs S, as it served to reinforce Mr Ss concerns about Barclays and its ability to meet 
his and Mrs Ss needs as customers.
Term extension: Mr S spoke to Barclays on 29 May 2022, in a detailed call when a term 
extension was discussed. Im satisfied the call handler explained that he wasnt a mortgage 
adviser, and that hed arrange for Mr S to speak to a mortgage adviser  and that call 
happened on 3 May 2022. I can understand why Mr S thought that the term extension would 
be a formality, given that there was a lot of discussion on 29 May 2022 about his and 
Mrs Ss needs and circumstances, and about different mortgage products. 
However, Barclays doesnt offer a term extension on the particular lifetime tracker mortgage 
product Mr and Mrs S had taken out. Therefore, if theyd wanted to extend the mortgage 
term, they would have needed to take out a new Barclays mortgage product. As the interest 
rates on these werent as competitive as the rate Mr and Mrs S already had, I can 
understand why Mr S decided not to proceed any further.
I dont have any power to tell Barclays what products it should offer to customers, or that it 
must extend the mortgage term for Mr and Mrs S when the product they are on doesnt 
provide for this; that would not be fair to other customers who are on the same product. 
Mr and Mrs S are, of course, free to select another Barclays mortgage product if they want a 
longer term. Any application for a new product would, of course, be subject to meeting 
Barclays lending criteria.Putting things right
Im satisfied that Barclays customer service fell short of the standard Mr and Mrs S were 
entitled to receive. Mr S had to raise the same points about the way his monthly payments 
were applied repeatedly, and wasnt called back as requested. Barclays also messed up the 
lump sum payment, and Mr S had to chase the bank to put this right. 
The result of this was that Mr Ss confidence in Barclays ability to administer the account 
was dented, although, as Ive explained above, the evidence doesnt persuade me that the 
way Barclays is applying payments is incorrect. But I can see that the longer Mr S was left 
without a clear answer, the more he believed there was something wrong on the mortgage 
account.
Barclays has agreed to pay total compensation of £1,000 (to include £125 already paid) for 
its poor customer service. In all the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied this amount is 
fair, reasonable and proportionate to cover the frustration, distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr and Mrs S by Barclays. 
My final decision
My decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay total 
compensation of £1,000 (to include £125 already paid) in full and final settlement of this 
complaint. I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman