DRN-4014041
The complaint
Mr D complains Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) unfairly increased the 
price of his motor insurance premiums.
Advantage are the underwriters of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns 
the actions of the broker. As Advantage have accepted it is accountable for the actions of 
the broker ,in my decision, any reference to Advantage includes the actions of the broker.
What happened
In July 2022 a third party crashed into Mr Ds car. The third-party accepted liability and the 
repairs to his car were covered by the third-party insurer.
Mr D did not make a claim on the motor insurance policy held with Advantage.
When Advantage sent Mr D his renewal invitation in October 2022 it had increased more 
than Mr D expected so he contacted Advantage to understand why there was such a large 
increase in his premiums.
Mr D found that Advantage had recorded a claim against him.
Mr D wants the claim removing from his record. He said his no claims discount was 
protected and the accident was not his fault. 
Mr D said he accepted the renewal of his policy as he had no choice as he needed to use 
his car. He would like a refund of his increased premiums.
As Mr D was not happy with Advantage, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said the 
increase had taken into account the non-fault claim and the other usual factors. They said 
premiums had increased across the board in general over the last year or so. They were 
satisfied the increase in premium has been calculated correctly in line with Advantages 
pricing criteria. They said any claim regardless of fault forms part of a policyholders driving 
history and the insurer still needs to record it on his policy. 
As Mr D is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to understand that were not the industry regulator. That means I dont have 
the power to tell an insurer or broker how much it can charge for its policies. Neither is it my 
role to tell an insurer what factors it should take into account when assessing risk.
When calculating what premium to charge individual policyholders, Advantage will take 
numerous different factors into account  these are likely to include, but are not limited to, 
the policyholders postcode, the age of the drivers, the number of fault claims and non-fault 
claims etc. And different insurers assess risk differently. What is high risk to one may not be 
to another. Individual insurers may also use different data when assessing the risk posed. 
But thats not unusual or unfair. 
We cannot tell Advantage (or any insurer) that it should use, or discount, specific data. 
Thats because the risk is Advantages to take on so it will decide how to assess it and will 
price the policies it offers accordingly. Prices can go up or down, depending on what it thinks 
the risks are that year for all of its customers.
Insurers constantly update how they rate the risk of consumers. And their rates continually 
change. Each insurer will take its own view on how to underwrite. It will decide what factors 
to take into account and how much weight to put on each of them. Increases may be due to  
inflation, a claim/s, different car or address, regional trends etc.
Providing they treat people fairly; insurers and brokers are entitled to charge what they feel 
they need to in order to cover a risk. So although I cannot tell Advantage how much to 
charge Mr D, I can look at whether it treated him fairly throughout the time he held his car 
insurance.
 
In this case Advantage has recorded Mr D had one non-fault accident in July 2022 but the 
no claims discount has not been affected. It said a non-fault claim is a rating factor on a 
policy. And any incident, regardless of fault, can affect car insurance premiums. It confirmed 
a non-fault claim does have a lower risk rating than a fault claim. I saw Mr Ds renewal 
documents show his no claims discount has not been affected.
I understand that the accident was not Mr Ds fault, and he does not think it is fair that this is 
recorded on his motor insurance record. But it is normal industry practice for all claims 
regardless of fault to be recorded on a consumers record. 
I looked at Mr Ds statement of insurance and it says;
Incident history
For all drivers named on this policy, we need to know of any incident, claim or damage 
involving any motor vehicle in the past five years, including windscreen damage. This 
applies whether or not a claim was made, and regardless of blame.
Therefore the non-fault incident had been recorded fairly within the terms of Mr Ds policy. 
With regards to the calculation of Mr Ds policy premium, Advantage said at renewal it isnt a 
case of just looking at any factors which have changed. It said all risk details are re-rated 
against current ratings. 
Advantage confirmed the calculation for Mr Ds policy premiums was completed against its 
current risk ratings. I saw that since he had taken out his policy in 2021 Advantage had 
released a completely new rating version. This new version was used when calculating the 
2022 renewal premiums.
It confirmed Mr Ds calculation included the non- fault incident in July 2022 alongside other 
risk factors. Advantage confirmed it was calculated automatically by its system. And it had 
not been adjusted manually. It also confirmed its system was working as expected.Im satisfied the price Mr D was quoted has been calculated correctly and all of Advantages 
customers in Mr Ds position will have been charged a similar premium. 
I do not believe Advantage have been unfair in its pricing and I dont think it has treated Mr D 
any differently to its other customers. Therefore I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint and I do 
not require Advantage to do anything further in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman