DRN-2954833
The complaint
Mr Ls complaint against St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) is about an 
investment he was advised to make in 2015.
What happened
Mr L and his late wife met an SJP adviser in March 2015. They wanted to discuss their 
investment plans having received funds from the winding up of their business.
Following the advisers recommendations, Mr L and his late wife made a number of 
investments. One of them, which is the subject of this complaint, was a £25,000 investment 
by Mr L into an Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS). By 2019, the value of Mr Ls 
investment was negligible. Mr L complains that:
He understood the EIS carried a degree of risk, but he wouldnt have invested if hed 
been made aware that he could lose all his capital.
SJPs monitoring and reporting of the investment was wholly inadequate. He thinks SJP 
should have been monitoring the performance of the EIS and acted when it had lost 
around 50% of its value. He feels that SJP took their eye off the ball and have taken the 
view that because Mr L had other investments, he could afford to lose the entire value of 
this one. 
The valuation of the EIS that SJP provided in July 2019 didnt reflect its true value, which 
had been given in a statement from the EIS provider in April 2019. He questions whether 
other valuations from SJP were accurate. 
SJP should offer compensation in the region of 50% of his loss. This would take account 
of the riskier nature of the investment but is also the point at which he thinks a stop loss 
should have occurred.
In response SJP have said:
The EIS was a suitable investment for Mr L. He was made aware of the risks associated 
with this type of investment, including the potential for significant loss of capital should 
one or more of the companies fail. Mr L signed a declaration confirming he understood 
these risks and accepted them.
As explained in the declaration Mr L signed when he made the investment, SJP have no 
influence over the investment decisions taken by the EIS provider and cannot therefore 
be held responsible for the performance of the EIS.
The valuations were provided to SJP by the EIS provider. The April 2019 valuation 
took some time to complete and was not provided to SJP until July 2019. The valuation 
would have been available to Mr L as soon as it was provided to SJP. 
In their final response letter, as a gesture of goodwill, SJP offered Mr L £250 in 
compensation, plus the cost of his accountant fees. 
Our investigator didnt think SJP had done anything wrong. Mr L disagrees and has asked 
for an ombudsman to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Risk and suitability
Mr L was advised to invest in the EIS alongside a number of other recommendations from 
SJP. Mr L has said he has no concerns about the advice he was given at the time but with 
what happened subsequently with the EIS investment.
However, Mr L has also said he wouldnt have invested in the EIS if hed know there was a 
risk of losing all his funds. SJP were responsible for recommending the EIS to Mr L, so Ive 
looked first at whether a high risk investment of this kind was suitable for him. 
The EIS investment was one of a number made by Mr L and his late wife following their 
meeting with an SJP adviser. At the time of the advice, Mr L had an annual income of 
around £48,487 gross from private and state pensions and £16,050 from ISAs. Between 
them, Mr L and his wife held total assets of around £2.5 million.   
The adviser gave advice to Mr L and his wife on how to invest £340,00 from the winding up 
of their business. As part of that advice, the adviser recommended that Mr L invest a total of 
£50,000 in EIS funds, including £25,000 in the EIS that is the subject of this complaint. 
According to the paperwork from the time, Mr Ls objectives were to make use of future ISA 
allowances and reduce his liability to income and inheritance tax. The adviser said that 
overall Mr L was an upper-medium risk investor, but he was willing to invest a small 
proportion of his overall funds in higher risk assets to achieve the tax benefits available. Mr L 
was an experienced investor and was comfortable committing his funds for up to four years. 
I think the EIS investment was in line with Mr Ls objectives. Given his overall assets and 
large cash savings, I think it was affordable for him and he had the capacity to absorb any 
losses that might occur. Although Mr Ls overall attitude to risk was described as upper-
medium, I think it was reasonable for the adviser to recommend some higher risk 
investments alongside other lower risk options, particularly given the tax benefits Mr L was 
seeking. So, I think the EIS was a suitable investment was suitable for Mr L. 
SJP should also have provided Mr L with clear information about the investments he was 
making, including the level of risk involved. 
I note that that advisers report initially described the EIS investments he was recommending 
as upper-medium risk. But a few pages later, in the section on attitude to risk and fund 
selection, he said the EIS investments were high risk and listed the EIS that Mr L is 
complaining about as upper-high. 
Before going ahead with the investments, SJP asked Mr L to sign an EIS client declaration 
form. By signing the form, Mr L said he understood and accepted that: the high risk nature of EIS means you could get back less than was originally 
invested. While tax reliefs exist to limit any such loss, they remain only suitable for 
clients who can afford to lose money.
Mr L also confirmed that he had read and understood the documents produced by the EIS 
provider, with particular attention to the section that explained the specific risks associated 
with the investment. The investment risks section of the Information Memorandum document 
for the EIS said:
You should only consider subscribing if you are able to bear the risk of losing your 
entire investment.
I note also that the important notice at the start of the Information Memorandum included the 
following comments on risk:
Investing in private companies may expose you to a significant risk of losing all the 
money invested. 
Investing in the. EIS is speculative and involves a significant degree of risk. 
Overall, Im satisfied that SJP provided Mr L with sufficiently clear information about the level 
of risk that the EIS carried. I think they made clear to Mr L that it was a high risk investment 
and that there was a risk of him losing the money he invested. 
Monitoring
Mr L complains that SJP didnt monitor the EIS as closely as they did his other investments 
and didnt do enough to prevent his significant losses.
SJP were responsible for advising Mr L to invest in the EIS. But they were not responsible 
for the management of the EIS and the performance of the investee companies. I note that 
by signing the EIS client declaration, Mr L agreed that:
I understand that St. Jamess Place approach to Investment management does not 
extend to EIS and that St. Jamess Place has no influence and cannot be held 
responsible for the underlying investment decisions of the EIS provider. 
When Mr L invested, he agreed that the EIS provider would manage the fund on the terms 
set out in the investment management agreement. In effect the EIS provider offered an 
investment management service and had a mandate to make investment decisions on 
behalf of investors. The Information Memorandum also explained that investors capital 
would generally be tied up for three years and that in normal circumstances it wouldnt be 
possible for an investor to sell his investments in order to access his funds. Mr L accepted 
this when he signed the EIS client declaration, which said:
the fact that EIS companies are not listed on an exchange means that they are 
inherently illiquid, and you may be unable to sell them at the point you wish to.
Ive considered what Mr L has said. But, based on what Ive seen, I dont think I can fairly 
say that SJP should have done more to prevent Mr Ls losses. 
Valuations
Mr L has also complained about the valuations of his EIS investment provided by SJP. SJP have said that the valuations provided to Mr L were based on information they received 
from the EIS provider. The EIS wasnt valued daily like many of Mr Ls other investments, but 
SJP say they updated the valuation as soon as revised valuations were provided to them. 
I note that in the Information Memorandum the EIS provider said they would send valuation 
statements every six months as at 5th October and 5th April showing the acquisition price and 
current fair value for each security in an investors portfolio.
SJP have said the April 2019 valuation wasnt provided to them until July 2019. They say the 
valuation would have been made available to Mr L at that point, as soon as they had 
received it. 
Ive considered what Mr L has said. But overall, Ive not seen enough evidence to say that 
SJP were responsible for any delays in valuations being provided to Mr L. 
Summary
Id like to reassure Mr L that Ive looked carefully at everything hes said. I think SJPs advice 
to invest in the EIS was suitable for him. And while I can understand why Mr L feels strongly 
about what has happened to his investment, I dont think I can fairly hold SJP responsible for 
his losses. 
I note SJP have made Mr L an offer as a gesture of goodwill. Mr L should contact SJP 
directly if he now wishes to accept that offer. 
I realise this will be a disappointing decision for Mr L, but I wont be upholding his complaint. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint 
against St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc. I dont think SJP need to do anything to 
settle the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman