DRN-2279892
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms representative, a claims management company (CMC), complains on their 
behalf that they were given unsuitable investment advice  in June 2005, January 2006 and   
May 2006  by Lloyds Bank PLC. 
What happened
In June 2005, Mr and Mrs M were advised to invest £14,000 into a Guaranteed Investment 
Bond, referred to as GIB. In January 2006 they were advised to invest a further £10,000 
and in May 2006 another £6,000 in a GIB.   
In a Final Response Letter (FRL) dated July 2019, Lloyds partially upheld the complaint. In 
short it said that too much money had been invested in the same product. In other words, 
only the last advice in May 2006 was unsuitable. 
Unhappy with the FRL, the CMC referred the complaint to our service. It believes Mr and 
Mrs M shouldve been advised to invest in a fixed rate bond only. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and initially thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said that although the June 2005 advice was suitable, the January 2006 advice 
(in addition to the May 2006 advice) was also unsuitable. 
But having considered Lloyds response, the investigator changed his mind. He now felt its 
initial partial uphold was correct, and that January 2006 advice (as well as the June 2005 
advice) was suitable. 
He also said that redress (in relation to the May 2006 advice only), should be calculated 
based on an average rate from fixed rate bonds, with 8% simple interest. 
The CMC disagreed with investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
short, it said:
The investigators initial view was correct and the January and May 2006 advice were 
unsuitable. 
The investigator seemed to have changed his mind due to Lloyds stating that its 
clients had previously held a Combi Bond and this was evidence of their experience 
of fixed rate guaranteed bonds. 
But the Lloyds Combi Bond was an exclusive one-year fixed-rate bond which in its 
experience always paid above the open market rate of interest and was only 
available when taking out the GIB. 
This isnt evidence that Mr and Mrs M were knowledgeable about rates usually 
offered by fixed rate bonds on the open market.   
 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators latest view for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, I think Lloyds 
decision to partially uphold the complaint on the basis that the May 2006 advice was 
unsuitable, is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
 
Given the latest response from the CMC, and submissions from Lloyds, the parties broadly 
accept that the June 2005 advice  to invest £14,000 in a GIB  was suitable, but the May 
2006 advice  to invest £6,000 in a GIB  was unsuitable. 
This means that the key issue left for me to consider is whether the January 2006 advice  
to invest another £10,000 in a GIB  was suitable or not in the circumstances. But in the 
circumstances, Im unable to say the January 2006 recommendation was unsuitable 
because they werent advised to invest in fixed rate bonds instead. 
For the record, I also think the June 2005 is suitable and the May 2006 advice is unsuitable, 
for the reasons made clear by Lloyds in its FRL and the investigator in his latest view. On 
balance I think 31% of Mr and Mrs Ms overall holdings in a GIB was unsuitable. 
But because I dont know what Mr and Mrs M wouldve done in the alternative, I think 
redress (for the May 2006 advice) based on the average rate for fixed rate bonds with 12 to 
17 months to maturity, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Despite what the CMC 
says, Im not persuaded that they would  more likely (than not)  have gone for the fixed 
rate bond in the alternative. 
I note in January 2006, Mr and Mrs M were in their early 60s, retired with no outstanding 
debts, but Mr M had returned to work on a part-time (and possibly temporary) basis. I also 
note they owned their own home with no mortgage. In the circumstances I think they had 
capacity to invest. Im also mindful that the investment was maintained until maturity which 
doesnt suggest that there were any affordability issues either.
It seems Mr and Mrs M were looking to achieve a higher potential growth than their savings 
account could provide and were prepared to take a cautious risk but required a capital 
guarantee. In the circumstances Im satisfied that the January 2006 recommendation broadly 
met that need. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs M had around £96,000 in savings and equities at the time. I 
note Lloyds says that having received a further £12,500 theyd been into branch for an 
investment review. I note that the records show that Mr and Mrs M decided against two mini 
ISAs due to initial charges and opted to invests a further £10,000 in a GIB. I understand that 
they were advised to invest £4,000 each into a low risk investment ISA and £7,000 into a 
similarly low risk GIB, but they declined, opting to invest £10,000 in a GIB. 
I note that the May 2006 fact find  albeit after the January sale  shows that Mr and Mrs M 
held the following: 
£47,179 in a mixture of Instant Access cash savings accounts, Cash ISAs and a Term 
Deposit, £20,000 in a Halifax Equity ISA, £3,000 in Shares and £24,216 in GIBs.This meant that they had around 25% of their assets in capital secure products which I dont 
think is too much in one type of investment. In other words, in the circumstances I dont think 
Mr and Mrs M had too much exposure to one type of investment. 
I appreciate the points the CMC makes about the Combi Bond (taken with a GIB) but even if 
it did offer rates that were higher than what was available for fixed rate bonds on the open 
market, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs M asked about the fixed rate bonds.  
Given what the CMC says I wouldve expected them to at least enquire about them, if they 
were interested, but perhaps they werent.  
I understand Mr and Mrs M had a reasonable cashflow after investment and had a healthy 
net disposable income each month. In theory they had capacity to deal with any losses, but 
on balance it seems they were prepared to take a chance to receive higher returns based on 
the stock market, at the risk of no return, knowing that their capital  possibly from a 
redundancy pay out  was safe. In the circumstances I dont think the recommendation, with 
around 25% of their assets, was unreasonable. 
I note that although Mr and Mrs M might not have been experienced investors, in January 
2006 they certainly werent without experience, notwithstanding their former careers in non-
financial sectors. For the reasons above, Im broadly satisfied that in January 2006 they 
were aware of alternative investments, so were in a position to make an informed choice, 
and so invested in a way they wanted to at the time. 
Its only with the benefit of hindsight that we know for sure that the investment wasnt going 
to achieve anywhere near what was envisaged, as the world was about to embark on a 
global financial crisis. But this doesnt mean that the June 2005 or January 2006 
recommendation is now unsuitable. 
Despite what the CMC says, I agree with the investigator that we cant use the benefit of 
hindsight to decipher which investment wouldve done better, and then determine whether or 
not the original advice was suitable. I appreciate thats not exactly what the CMC is saying, 
but nevertheless I wish to make clear thats not how our service operates. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. I realise my decision isnt what they want to hear. Whilst I appreciate their 
frustration, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give them what they want.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
I think the partial uphold and redress offered by Lloyds Bank PLC is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman