DRN-1830764
 
The complaint
Mr K complains that The Share Centre Limited unfairly applied the standard dealing charges 
on a number of trades rather than the cheaper frequent dealing charges. It also failed to 
deal with his queries helpfully or responsively. 
What happened
The Share Centre said he was an execution-only customer who had signed up to the 
standard dealing option and therefore this was the basis on which it dealt with his trades. It 
was not obliged to proactively recommend he switch to the frequent dealing option or 
undertake trades under this different pricing plan. It admitted it could have been more helpful 
in response to his queries and offered him £150 in lieu of this.
An investigator at this service agreed with the Share Centres assessment of the standard 
dealing charges issue and so did not believe it had done anything wrong. He acknowledged 
that it had failed to respond adequately to Mr Ks two phone calls and that this had clearly 
caused him inconvenience and upset. But he felt the offer of £150 was reasonable, and so 
did not believe his complaint should be upheld.
Mr K accepted that he had signed up to an execution-only service and chosen the standard 
dealing option but felt The Share Centre should have applied the frequent dealing charges  
in line with its responsibility to treat customers fairly - once it became obvious what was 
happening. He and his wife had been charged over £1,600 for trades which would have cost 
under £200 under the frequent dealing option. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons.
I recognise that there was a dramatic difference between what Mr K was charged under the 
standard dealing option and what he could have paid under the frequent option but I dont 
think The Share Centre could reasonably be expected to simply select the cheapest tariff 
depending on what trade/s a customer makes. It offered clear charging options and Mr K 
chose the standard dealing one. So while I agree that a business should always treat 
customers fairly  and this sometimes means going beyond the strict terms and conditions  
I dont think The Share Centre ought to have acted differently in this case.
I also think its offer of £150, made after Mr K brought his complaint to this service, was 
reasonable. Given it did not offer anything for its phone errors in its Final Response Letter, 
and I am satisfied that it ought to have done so I uphold Mr Ks complaint but only on this 
ground. 
Putting things rightThe Share Centre must pay Mr K £150. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct The Share Centre Limited to pay Mr K £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Tony Moss
Ombudsman