DRN-3997781
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has cancelled her personal private medical 
insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Im not going to set this 
out in detail here. Instead, I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.
On 1 October 2021, Mrs S took out a personal private medical insurance through a broker, 
which was underwritten by Aviva. The policy was taken out on moratorium terms, which 
meant that Aviva excluded claims for medical conditions which had existed in the five years 
before the policy was taken out.
In January 2022, Mrs S got in touch with Aviva, as shed been suffering from symptoms of 
blocked ears since shed suffered from sinusitis and Covid-19 in November 2021. Aviva 
asked for medical information to allow it to look further into this claim.
Although Aviva covered some claims costs under the policy terms, it later decided to turn 
down the claim in full and cancelled the policy from the start. Thats because it felt that not 
only had Mrs S symptoms started before the policy began, it also considered shed given it a 
false statement about her health. So it concluded that shed breached the policy fraud 
condition. It said that there were no premiums to be refunded, as itd paid more in claims that 
Mrs S had paid for the policy.
Mrs S was unhappy with Avivas decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator thought that Mrs S complaint should be partly upheld. He thought itd been 
fair for Aviva to conclude that Mrs S claim fell within the scope of the moratorium clause. 
And that therefore, itd been reasonable for Aviva to decline to cover any further costs. But 
he didnt think itd been fair for Aviva to conclude that Mrs S had breached the policy fraud 
condition. So he recommended that Aviva should reinstate the policy and pay Mrs S £400 
compensation for the trouble and upset itd caused her.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 February 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I thought it had been fair for Aviva to cancel her policy. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things,
the terms of Mrs S policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether Aviva 
treated her fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of her contract 
with Aviva. The policy includes a section called Policy Condition. Pages 27 and 28 set out 
when Aviva may cancel a policy. This says:
If a claim made by, or on behalf of, the policyholder or a member is in any way fraudulent or 
fraudulently exaggerated or supported by a false statement or fraudulent evidence, we may:
 refuse to pay the claim, and
 recover any sums paid by us in respect of the claim.
In addition: where the claim is made by, or on behalf of, the policyholder, we may cancel the
policy back to the date of the fraudulent act and keep all premiums. This will end the cover of
the policyholder and all members listed on the policy schedule.
Page 24 of the policy lists the underwriting terms upon which Aviva offers insurance cover. 
Mrs S chose moratorium cover, so Ive set out the relevant section below:
We do not cover treatment of any pre-existing condition, or any related condition, if you had:
 symptoms of
 medication for
 diagnostic tests for
 treatment for, or
 advice about that condition
in the five years before you joined the policy.
I think Aviva has set out both the fraud condition and the moratorium clause clearly in the 
policy terms and that both are drafted in an understandable way. Aviva considers that Mrs S 
claim fell within the scope of the moratorium clause and that she breached the fraud 
condition. So Ive gone on to explore whether I think these were fair conclusions for Aviva to 
draw.
Generally, its a policyholders responsibility to provide enough evidence to show that they 
have a valid claim on their policy. And its an insurers responsibility to show that an 
exclusion clause applies which means that a claim shouldnt be paid. In this case, Aviva 
asked for medical evidence from Mrs S GP and treating specialists to allow it to assess 
whether the claim should be covered. Given the short timeline between Mrs S taking out the 
policy and the date she says her symptoms began, I think it was appropriate and fair for 
Aviva ask for further medical evidence to allow it to fully consider the claim.
Ive looked closely at the medical evidence thats been provided  in particular, the GP notes 
and clinical records. And Ive also listened to copies of calls between Mrs S and Aviva. In 
January 2022, Mrs S told Aviva that shed been suffering from blocked ears since shed had 
sinusitis and Covid-19 in November 2021. In March 2022, Mrs S saw a specialist doctor, 
who Ill call Mr P. His letter says Mrs S reported that in October 2021, shed developed 
symptoms of sinusitis. He also noted that shed described pressure sensations in her head 
and that her right nostril appeared to be more blocked than her left.
The GPs notes show that in February 2021, Mrs S contacted her GP with symptoms of 
right-sided nasal congestion, with blockage. She appears to have been prescribed a nasal
spray. And in March 2021, the notes show that Mrs S stated that her nasal symptoms were 
much the same. At this point, the GP referred her to an Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT) 
specialist. These symptoms all appear to have begun around eight months before Mrs S 
took out the policy.
It seems to me that theres a clear link between the symptoms Mrs S reported to her GP in 
February and March 2021, for which she was referred to ENT, and the symptoms of nasal 
blockage she reported to the specialist in March 2022. From my own research, it appears that nasal blockage can also be a symptom of sinusitis. So I dont think it was unfair or 
unreasonable for Aviva to conclude that Mrs S symptoms had likely existed before she took 
out the policy. And neither do I think it was unfair for Aviva to accordingly decide that her 
claim wasnt covered because it fell within the scope of the moratorium clause.
As Ive mentioned above, Aviva also considers that Mrs S breached the policy fraud 
condition. In its submissions to us, Aviva explained that it had placed significant weight on 
the following entry in Mrs S GP notes, dated 30 September 2021, when it reached its 
decision:
Long talkoffered to refer to a diabetes consultant BUT says applying for private insurance 
with view to get lots of tests done privately so doesnt appear on her notes (sic) and hence 
doesnt want me to refer to (hospital).
Ive thought about this very carefully. This appears to be a note made by the GP following a 
long discussion with Mrs S, the day before she took out the policy. Its a very specific note 
which seems to indicate that Mrs S was aware that being referred to a hospital (whether for 
diabetes or potentially any other condition) would impact on her ability to make a valid claim 
on the policy. It also appears that Mrs S was able to clearly articulate this position to her GP 
to the extent that it was noted down. And it seems too that Mrs S was applying for the policy 
with a view to getting tests done.
And during the claims process, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to conclude that Mrs S had 
given it false or misleading information. I say that because, at points, she told Aviva that her 
symptoms had begun in November 2021. As Ive explained, this isnt corroborated by the 
GPs evidence, which indicates that at least one symptom of sinusitis existed in February 
2021, or the specialists letter, which indicates her sinusitis symptoms began in October 
2021  the month the policy was taken out. During the call, she also gave conflicting 
information about whether shed previously been prescribed treatment or not. While I 
appreciate Mrs S referred to blocked ears when she claimed to Aviva, rather than a blocked 
nose, or sinusitis, it seems this condition had developed following sinusitis or Covid-19.
Taking together all of the available evidence here and based on the specific and unusual 
facts of this case, I dont think it was unfair or reasonable for Aviva to conclude that Mrs S 
had breached the fraud condition. This means I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for 
Aviva to cancel Mrs S policy from the start.
I asked both parties to provide me with any additional evidence or comments they wanted 
me to consider.
Aviva had nothing to add.
Mrs S disagreed with my provisional findings and Ive summarised her response:
The accusation of fraud has caused her great distress and jeopardised her chances 
of finding insurance in the future;
At the time of her claim, shed had some congestion and a runny nose, but this was 
secondary and a lasting symptom of sinusitis and the viral infection, which had been 
treated by antibiotics. But, at the same time, shed developed new symptoms of 
Eustachian Tube Dysfunction, which manifested during a Covid-19 infection shed 
contracted in November 2021. Her claim had only been for this;
She was confident she wasnt committing any fraud. Her previous referral to ENT had 
been for polyps in her nose. But due to Covid-19, her appointment had been by telephone and based on self-diagnosis. She hadnt had congestion, a runny nose or 
Eustachian tube dysfunction at that time;
Both of her consultants had confirmed that her condition wasnt related to ENT 
(which shed been discharged from). But both I and Aviva had ignored this evidence;
The discussion with the GP had been based around gathering information and 
exploring the benefits of private medical insurance, as she had little knowledge in this 
field. Asking questions was not evidence of Mrs S committing fraud;
The claim happened during a very difficult time and all the doctors Mrs S had seen 
said there had been little research into the impact of Covid-19 and any long-term 
damage. 
Were I not to uphold Mrs S complaint, she would find it difficult to obtain private 
medical insurance elsewhere, as her condition would now be classed as pre-existing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S, I still think it was fair for Aviva to cancel 
her policy and Ill explain why.
As Ive set out above, in making my decision, Ive carefully considered all of the medical 
evidence which has been provided, including the clinical letters provided by Mrs S 
consultants. I appreciate much of the medical advice was given during Covid-19 and that this 
was a difficult time for the NHS and patients alike. Nonetheless, the GPs evidence is 
contemporaneous evidence of what the GP (and consultants) reported about Mrs S health 
at the relevant time. And so, I find Aviva relied upon that evidence in a fair and appropriate 
way.
It remains the case that the GPs notes show Mrs S reported symptoms of right-sided nasal 
congestion, with blockage in February 2021. And that as these symptoms remained much 
the same, Mrs S was referred to ENT in March 2021. It seems the GP thought Mrs S 
symptoms were serious enough at that point to refer her to a specialist. It also remains the 
case that there appears to be a clear link between the symptoms of nasal blockage which 
Mrs S reported in February 2021, with the nasal blockage she reported to the consultant in 
March 2022. 
While Mrs S may not have had a clear diagnosis for her symptoms at the point of claim, the 
moratorium clause doesnt only exclude conditions where a diagnosis has been made. The 
moratorium excludes any symptoms of or advice about a condition in the five years before 
the policy began. I still think the medical evidence points to at least one of Mrs S symptoms 
existing eight months before her policy began. This means, then, that I still find it was fair for 
Aviva to conclude that Mrs S symptoms fell within the scope of the moratorium and to 
accordingly conclude that the claim wasnt covered.
I appreciate how strongly Mrs S feels about Avivas decision to cancel her policy and I 
understand shes concerned about the impact such a decision will have on her ability to 
obtain insurance in the future. Ive also carefully thought about what shes told us regarding 
her discussions with her GP. However, as Ive explained, I think the GPs records are 
persuasive evidence of what the GP understood their discussion with Mrs S to reflect. As 
Ive said above, this note in very specific in nature. It indicates that Mrs S understood that referral to a hospital could impact on her ability to make a valid claim in the future and also 
that she clearly expressed this to the GP. I still think, too, that the note suggests that its 
most likely that Mrs S was applying for the policy with the intention of obtaining tests 
privately.
And as I set out in my provisional decision, I still find that Mrs S gave Aviva conflicting 
information about the timeline of her symptoms and whether shed previously had treatment 
for them.
Overall then, taking together the totality of the evidence, I remain satisfied that based on the 
unusual and highly specific facts of this complaint, it was fair for Aviva to conclude that Mrs S 
had breached the fraud condition. And therefore, Im still satisfied it was fair for Aviva to 
cancel her policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman