DRN-2867864
The complaint
Mr P complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt close his account when it 
should have.
What happened
Mr P says Halifax said it would close his account in April 2020 but didnt. He says it should 
have closed when the account balance was zero, but Halifax didnt do so and added charges 
to the balance. Mr P says that mistake affected his credit file which already had adverse 
information recorded on it. He would like compensation for the damage Halifaxs mistakes 
had on him.
Halifax accepts it didnt close Mr Ps account when it said it would. It apologised and paid 
£100 and agreed to backdate the default date to June 2020 which is three months after the 
account ought to have closed in March 2020. Halifax says Mr P had exceeded his overdraft 
limit and owed it over £500 when the account closed. It says the last charges were made in 
February 2020 and it wasnt the case the balance was zero when the account ought to have 
closed.
Mr P brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought there wasnt a zero balance as Mr P said and that Halifax didnt apply charges that 
made the account overdrawn. The investigator thought Halifax had acted in line with the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) guidance by registering a default between three 
and six months after missed payments or arrears. And acted fairly by backdating the default 
to June 2020.
Mr P doesnt accept that view and says the damage to his credit file hasnt been considered 
and the impact this mistake caused. He says the default should be backdated to February 
2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that Halifax told Mr P it was closing his account and was entitled to do so. I 
appreciate Mr P says that the account ought to have been closed when the balance in the 
account was zero. But I have looked at Mr Ps account statements and Im satisfied the 
balance was not zero in 2020 and over £500 overdrawn. So, I dont think the delay in closing 
the account had any effect on the account balance and can see that charges were last 
applied in February 2020.
There is no dispute here that the account ought to have closed in around March 2020. I can 
see that Halifax has apologised for the delay in closing the account and has paid what I think 
is a fair and reasonable compensation amount of £100. I have not seen any evidence that 
the delay had any financial impact on Mr P. And having looked at his credit file, Im satisfied 
that there is a significant amount of adverse information, such as defaults, recorded on it 
from other businesses.
The ICO provides guidance on registering a default which it suggests should be between 
three and six months of for example missed payments or in this case a failure to repay an 
overdraft. Im satisfied that account ought to have closed in March 2020 and that Halifax was 
entitled to register a default by June 2020. Halifax has agreed to backdate the default to that 
date, and I have seen evidence on its records that it has done so. I appreciate Mr P says the 
default ought to be backdated to February 2020, but I dont think the account was due to 
close until the following month.
Overall, Im satisfied that Halifax didnt add charges to a zero-account balance and didnt 
make a mistake or act unfairly by closing Mr Ps account and by registering a default in June 
2020. Im also satisfied that Halifax has a duty to accurately report information to the Credit 
Reference Agencies which is what it did here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman