DRN-2348876
The complaint
Ms S says Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as Moneyboat lent to her 
irresponsibly. She says her credit file showed large amounts of adverse information and high 
levels of debt. And no income checks were carried out. She says the loan shouldnt have 
been approved. 
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Moneyboat provided to Ms S in October 2019. 
Ms S borrowed £500. She was due to make two monthly repayments of £193 and then three 
of £100.  
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint because he thought that Moneyboat had information 
that showed Ms S was in financial difficulty. And better checks wouldve confirmed this.
Moneyboat disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that, whilst the credit reference 
agency information did show Ms S had other short term lending, it wouldnt be practical to 
fully review all of the information it had before approving these loans. This was partly due to 
its automated processes, and partly as it said its consumers require a quick decision about 
lending.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Moneyboat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Moneyboat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive decided to uphold Ms S complaint and Ive explained why below.
As our adjudicator explained, Moneyboats credit checks showed that Ms S had taken 
significant amounts of other lending of various types. These would be due to be repaid at the 
same time as the Moneyboat loan. I think there was enough other lending to say that 
Moneyboat shouldve looked further into Ms S circumstances.  
Moneyboat has said that it didnt fully consider the information it had about Ms S before 
lending. This was to ensure that it provided a quick and efficient service to Ms S. And it also 
says that the FCA guidance does not say that it needed to look at each line of a credit file in 
respect of each loan, particularly early on in the lending relationship. 
But Moneyboat had information that showed Ms S was possibly in financial difficulty. And 
having looked at the credit file information Moneyboat has supplied I dont think its difficult to 
see this. The first few pages of the credit file information Moneyboat has supplied show that 
Ms S had recently started significant amounts of other lending. There is more detail about 
this later in the report. 
I think its reasonable to say that this information was easily accessible to Moneyboat. And it 
follows that its also reasonable to say that Moneyboat should have fully considered it. 
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate check before approving this loan would most 
likely have shown that Ms S did have some significant amounts of a debt including other 
short term and high cost credit. And I can also see that she was regularly overdrawn and she 
was struggling to pay her regular household bills at times, amongst other things. 
I think that Moneyboat wouldve found out this information if it had made proportionate 
checks. And I think Moneyboat wouldve seen Ms S wouldnt have been able repay the loan 
in a sustainable way. So I think that Moneyboat shouldnt have given this loan to Ms S and I 
think shes lost out as a result of this. So Im upholding Ms S complaint.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Moneyboat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it hadnt lent to Ms S, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms S may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms S in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms S would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Moneyboats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Moneyboat shouldnt have given Ms S this loan.
If Moneyboat has sold any outstanding debt Moneyboat should it back if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Moneyboat is not able to buy the debt back then 
Moneyboat should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Moneyboat should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms S towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything it has already refunded.
B) Moneyboat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Ms S which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms S originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Moneyboat should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Ms S as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Ms S having made 
overpayments then Moneyboat should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Moneyboat should then refund the amounts calculated in A 
and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on any outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Ms S. However if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Moneyboat should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms S. Moneyboat 
shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Moneyboat has already written-
off.
E) Moneyboat should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Ms S credit file 
in relation to this lending. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyboat to deduct tax from this interest. Moneyboat 
should give Ms S a certificate showing how much tax Moneyboat has deducted, if she asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms S complaint.
Evergreen Finance London Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2021.
 Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman