DRN-3618539
The complaint
Mr M complains that Freetrade Limited changed its terms and conditions and gave him no 
option to opt out of the change. He had to sell shares and buy them back at a loss. He thinks 
Freetrade should reverse its decision or allow consumers to opt out.
What happened
In January 2021, Mr M opened a general investment (GIA) and an ISA account with 
Freetrade. In August 2021 he opened a SIPP account. In early March 2022, Freetrade gave 
him notice that it had taken the decision to lend securities and that it required his consent to 
do so. The change applied to Mr Ms GIA and SIPP. Mr M told us hed chosen Freetrade 
because it didnt participate in securities lending. He didnt agree that Freetrade could lend 
his securities as he didnt think it was in his best interests. 
His ISA was unaffected by the change in terms and remains open. His GIA doesnt hold any 
shares and remains open. Mr M closed his SIPP. He says Freetrade couldnt transfer his 
shares, so he had to sell them before buying them again through another provider. He said 
some of these transactions resulted in losses, and he spent time out of the market.
Freetrade said it had taken the decision to engage in securities lending to help it to build a 
sustainable business and to continue to offer a low-cost and simple product. It said Mr M 
didnt have to sell his shares when he did. Freetrade gave him notice that his account would 
become restricted from 1 June 2022 and he wouldnt be able to buy shares. But he could still 
sell or transfer his investments after this date.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that 
Freetrade could change its terms and that the change was for legitimate, commercial 
reasons. He didnt think Freetrade was responsible for any losses Mr M made on the sale of 
his investments.
Mr M didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
Freetrade has performed a bait and switch by changing its terms.
The practice of share lending provides no benefit to the end user.
The abrupt change, and Freetrades inability to offer share transfers, meant he was 
obliged to sell his shares and take on the loss. Whilst Freetrade said his account could 
remain a sell only one, it also said it would eventually close it. His investments had 
been made for the long term and he didnt intend to sell for some time.
And he sent us further communications from Freetrade which said the rollout of securities 
lending had been postponed and that it had changed the charging structure for its SIPP 
accounts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should make it clear that the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt set the rules for 
financial businesses or police the industry to make sure those rules are followed. And we 
dont have the power to fine or punish businesses. These are all issues dealt with by the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Neither is it my role to tell a business how 
it should develop its services and procedures. My role is instead to consider individual 
disputes and reach an outcome I think is fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances 
of each.
Im satisfied that Freetrades terms and conditions allowed it to make changes. They say:
Our Services may change from time to time. [5]; and
We may, from time to time, update or make other changes to the terms and conditions of 
this Agreement. [37]
And Im satisfied that Mr M was given reasonable notice of the change. Freetrade told him it 
was changing its terms in early March 2022 and that it required his consent to lend 
securities. It said his account would become a sell only account on 1 June 2022 if he hadnt 
provided consent. I think the period of around three months gave Mr M enough time to 
decide whether he wanted to consent, and to investigate alternative providers.
Freetrade didnt have the facility to transfer Mr Ms non-UK investments to a new provider. 
But I dont agree that the change in terms effectively forced Mr M to sell his investments. 
Whilst I appreciate he was worried he would have to close his account at some point after 
1 June, Freetrade said Mr M was free to keep his existing investments with Freetrade on a 
sell only basis (without them being lent). Whilst this arrangement might not have suited 
Mr M in the medium to longer term, Im satisfied that Freetrade gave Mr M options which 
didnt require him to sell his investments before 1 June. Its possible that Freetrade would 
have asked Mr M to close his account in the future  and this was covered in its terms and 
conditions. But Freetrade would have given reasonable notice of that closure. So I cant 
conclude that Mr M was forced to sell his investments when he did, and I dont find 
Freetrade has an obligation to compensate him for any loss he made when he chose to sell.
I appreciate what Mr M says about specifically choosing Freetrade as his provider because it 
didnt engage in securities lending. And its unfortunate that Freetrade gave notice of the 
change in terms within a year of Mr M opening his SIPP account. But Ive not seen evidence 
that Freetrade encouraged Mr M to open an account with it because it wouldnt lend his 
securities. And I dont find there was any obligation on Freetrade to tell Mr M it might engage 
in securities lending in the future, until it contacted him in early March 2022. 
I understand Mr M has strong feelings about the practice of securities lending. But, for the 
reasons I explained earlier, this service isnt the regulator and Im not going to comment on 
Freetrades commercial decisions  including its postponement in rolling out securities 
lending, and its change in SIPP account charges.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman