DRN-4079196
The complaint
Mr K complains about losses he made in his spread betting account with IG Index Limited.
What happened
Mr K has a share dealing and a spread betting account with IG. Hes complained about the 
following issues:
- On 23 February 2021 he sold shares in his share dealing account and wanted to fund his 
spread betting account but wasnt able to do this immediately.
- At 8:01 he placed a spread bet order to open a long position at a price of 900. At 8:05 his 
order was executed at 968.8. He complains as he says he placed a limit order so this 
shouldnt have been executed at this price.
- He called IG and was on hold for a long period of time and was told the market opened 
with the stock priced at 730 so he was confused why his order had executed at such a 
high price.
- He closed his position at IGs suggestion and suffered a loss of around £3,400.
IG accepted that Mr K was on the phone to it for some time and paid him the difference 
between the price when he closed his position and the price when he called. This was 
around £3,200. Mr K felt that the order shouldnt have been placed. But he also feels had he 
not closed his position hed have gained a profit. He says hes lost out financially.
I sent out my provisional decision outlining why I didnt uphold this complaint on 15 March 
2023. The relevant extract from this is as follows:
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think IG has done enough already to put things right. Ill explain 
why below. As my findings address things that our Investigator didnt consider, this is 
a provisional decision to allow both Mr K and IG to respond.
Transferring funds from share dealing account
Mr K has said that he sold shares in his share dealing account to fund his spread 
betting account. He explained he did this as he had been right in predicting the price 
of shares and felt he could make a profit making a spread bet. However, he wasnt 
able to immediately move the proceeds from his sale to his spread betting account. I 
can understand his frustration with this, especially as hes pointed out that he would 
be able to use the funds to purchase shares within his share dealing account. 
However, Im satisfied that it takes around two days for the funds to be processed 
and released from the account and I dont think IG has done anything wrong in doing 
this. This is fairly standard practice.
I can see this is also clear on IGs website where it explains that the share dealing 
balance will reflect the trade whether it has settled or not  but that it takes around 
two business days after the trade was agreed for the cash to leave or enter Mr Ks 
account. This is also confirmed in IGs share dealing agreement with Mr K. So, it 
hasnt done anything wrong here.
The stop order
The crux of Mr Ks complaint here is that he believes he placed a limit order  based 
on his predictions  to open a position to buy 100 instruments at a price of 900 or 
less. Hes said its impossible to place a stop order when the market is closed. Ive 
carefully considered the evidence around this. Having done so, Im satisfied that the 
order Mr K placed was executed correctly. Ill explain why.
The evidence that IG has provided shows that Mr K placed a stop order to open a 
position (+100) at a target price of 900. The order type was stop and it was a Good 
Till Cancel order  which means it would be executed unless Mr K cancelled it. Ive 
seen no evidence that Mr K placed a limit order.
The spread betting customer agreement explains, under section 12, Once a Stop 
Order is triggered we will, in accordance with Term 12(3) and subject to Term 12(4), 
open or as the case may be close a Bet at a level that is the same or worse than your 
stop level. Ive seen no evidence to show that a stop order  such as a stop-entry 
order in this case  couldnt be made in the few minutes prior to the market opening  
which is what happened here. The market opened at 8:04 and Mr Ks order was 
placed at 8:01.
As the market opened at a higher level than Mr Ks order price, it was executed. Ive 
not seen any evidence to show that this order shouldnt have been executed.
Calls with IG
Mr K has provided call recordings from IG. I can see that he was on the phone to IG 
for some time prior to closing his position  which he says was at IGs suggestion. 
Having listened to the calls I can see why Mr K was frustrated. He was being told 
clearly incorrect information. IG continued to tell Mr K that the market opened at 730 
for his specific stock which wasnt right. Had that been the case, Mr Ks order 
wouldnt have been executed at 968.8. So IG didnt provide a good level of service 
here.
Im mindful however, that Mr K has said throughout his complaint that he couldve 
closed his position at a profit, but was unsure why his position opened. Ive already 
concluded that his position was opened correctly, and it is Mr Ks responsibility to 
choose when to close his positions. So, whilst he missed out on closing at a profit, I 
dont think this was IGs fault.
It does appear that IG suggested Mr K close his position to mitigate against more 
losses. Mr K did this  I dont think this constituted advice, nor do I think Mr K was 
forced to close his position. However, I can see IG has accepted it played a part in 
this. It has paid Mr K the difference between the loss his position was in when he 
called, to the loss when he closed the position. This is almost the entire loss  around 
£3,200. I cant say that Mr K was forced to do anything, indeed I think he couldve 
traded at a profit. However, IG accepted it didnt provide good customer service here 
and has, in my view, done enough to put things right.
Summary
I do appreciate Mr Ks frustration here as he was hoping to make large profits and 
was confused at the price at which his position opened. But, I dont think IG was 
wrong in opening his position at that price. And any confusion that was later 
encountered over the phone including the suggestion to close the position has been 
fairly redressed already by IG. As such, Im not intending to uphold this complaint.
Responses to the provisional decisionIG didnt add any further comments. Mr K made some additional comments. He did explain 
that for personal reasons he feels he hasnt had the opportunity to comment throughout the 
process and commented on the length of time it had taken for him to receive a decision.
He made the following specific points in response to the provisional decision:
- He had a previous case where the Ombudsman had said that settlement didnt take two 
days and feels this contradicts what the provisional decision says about being able to 
move his funds from his share dealing account to his spread betting account.
- He wanted to know why the Ombudsman placed more weight on IGs evidence that a 
stop order was placed rather than a limit order.
- He said the market shouldnt have been closed and that forced him to use the order tab 
rather than the deal tab.
- Theres not been an explanation about why his order was executed at 968.8.
- New screenshots show that IG is now deciding whether a stop or limit order is being 
placed based on the price level.
- Due to the error in opening his position at a price of 968.8 he wasnt able to close at a 
profit as he couldnt understand why the error had occurred in the first place. This meant 
he hadnt had the opportunity to sell at a profit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill address Mr Ks points below but I first want to comment on Mr Ks ability to comment 
throughout the process. Mr K has had opportunities throughout the time his case has been 
with this service to submit his comments, and indeed we are in receipt of all his submissions 
and evidence. This was considered to reach my provisional decision, and again to reach this 
decision. Id like to assure Mr K that Ive considered in detail everything hes told us and 
provided us to reach my outcome.
Mr K has said that hes had a previous decision that said settlement happens immediately 
when share dealing and so he doesnt accept that it would or should take two days to be 
able to transfer the proceeds of his stock sell from his share dealing account to his spread 
betting account. The previous complaint hes referred to was about something very different 
to this. And I concluded in my provisional decision that IG was acting in line with its terms in 
taking two days for the proceeds to be withdrawn. I do accept that Mr K didnt want to 
withdraw the funds but rather move them into his spread betting account. However, I dont 
think this makes a difference. The funds needed to settle and clear to be transferred into a 
different account, so I dont think IG did anything wrong when it said this couldnt be done 
immediately.
Mr K has asked about the evidence we received from IG about him placing a stop order and 
why I attached weight to it. I do appreciate that Mr K feels his order being carried out was an 
error, but the only evidence I have outside of Mr Ks intention and belief is the system notes 
which demonstrate the order that was placed. When we have conflicting versions of events, I 
have to weigh up the evidence we have received. In this case I felt the system notes 
showing the actual order Mr K placed (a stop order) carried more weight than Mr Ks belief 
on how the platform worked. As such, on balance, I felt it was more likely that Mr K placed a 
stop order.
I also addressed in my provisional decision that the market in this case didnt open until 8:04 
and Mr K placed his order at 8:01. I understand Mr K felt the market ought to have been 
open but the delay was due to the exchange, not IG. When the market opened, the price 
was higher than Mr Ks order of 900 and so it was executed shortly after opening at the price of 968.8. Ive seen evidence to show the market opened at a price much higher than 900 so 
Im satisfied his order was executed at the correct price for the time. This was explained to 
Mr K by our Investigator and by IG previously. Id concluded that any reference to the market 
opening at 730 was incorrect and an error by the IG representative and it remains my view 
that this is the case. Mr Ks order triggered when the market opened and Ive not seen 
anything to suggest the order wasnt carried out legitimately in line with Mr Ks order 
instructions and the terms of his IG spread betting account.
Mr K has submitted new screenshots but given these differ from the time hes complaining 
about I dont find them relevant here. And I wont comment on something that hasnt been 
the subject of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr K didnt feel he could close his position at a profit  because he felt 
it was opened in error  but this doesnt take away from the fact that he had the opportunity 
to do so. In any event he chose to talk to IG about the issue and it has given him almost the 
entirety of the losses he incurred. This was because over the time he was on the phone his 
losses increased from around £200 to £3,400. IG gave him the difference of £3,200. And as I 
cant see that an error occurred in Mr Ks order being opened at the price of 968.8, I dont 
believe its reasonable to ask IG to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and the reasons set out in my provisional decision 
(relevant extract above which forms part of this decision) I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman