DRN-1409799
The complaint
Mr M complains that Arthur J. Gallagher Insurance Brokers Limited (AGI) mis-sold him a 
professional indemnity policy.
The broker that originally sold the policy was an appointed representative of Stackhouse 
Poland Ltd, who were subsequently purchased by AGI. So, for ease of reference, I will refer 
solely to AGI throughout this decision as the firm now responsible for this complaint.  
What happened
Mr M took out a professional indemnity policy with AGI in March 2015, which was sold to him 
on a claims made basis (meaning that claims can only be made while the policy remains in 
force).
In 2016, Mr M decided not to renew the policy so the cover eventually lapsed. A claim was 
subsequently made against him for work he had carried out while the policy was on risk. But 
he was told by AGI that he couldnt make a claim as it was a claims made policy, which 
prevented any further or historic claims from being made the moment it lapsed.
Mr M complained about the advice he was given and says that AGI mis-sold him the policy. 
He says they should have advised him to take a claims occurring policy (which allows for 
historic claims to be made for incidents occurring during the policy period, even after it has 
expired) rather than the claims made policy they recommended. Mr M says AGI did not 
explain the difference between the two types of policies, or that he would have to purchase 
retroactive date cover to keep him insured for the period he had a claims made policy if it 
was subsequently cancelled. He also says they failed to warn him of the consequences of 
allowing the policy to lapse upon renewal. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. He didnt think the brokers recommendation 
was unsuitable for the cover he required at the time, and that the basis of the policy being for 
claims made had been made clear on the documentation provided at the point of sale. The 
investigator also thought that AGI had made the consequences of cancelling the cover clear. 
Mr M disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it. 
Given that Mr M was seeking professional indemnity cover to insure against potential claims 
made against him in his profession, I dont think the policy recommended by AGI was 
unsuitable for his needs. If a claim had been made against him while the policy was in force, 
he would have been covered. It is only because it was not renewed that the policy will now 
not respond to any claims made while it was on risk, which I dont think renders the entire 
policy unsuitable, as it was suitable for him while it was active. Mr M says that AGI failed to give him information that was clear, fair and not misleading as 
they failed to highlight the nature of the claims made policy as well as failing to explain the 
difference between this and a claims occurring policy. I've seen a copy of the policy 
application form that was sent to Mr M, which has a section titled General Guidance at the 
top of the page which states:
This proposal form is for a CLAIMS MADE policy. A CLAIMS MADE policy only 
responds to claims made against the Assured and notified to Underwriters during the 
period of insurance arising from treatment provided on or after the policy 
RETROACTIVE DATE".
Given the prominence of this information on the proposal form, I'm satisfied that the 'claims 
made' basis of the policy was made sufficiently clear  as well as the fact that it would only 
respond to claims made during the period of insurance  such that Mr M was in a position to 
make an informed choice. Mr M signed and returned the proposal form to AGI on 16 March 
2015 and could have also queried anything he wasnt sure of. 
AGI issued the policy in June 2015, sending a policy schedule which also highlighted the 
basis of cover as being a Claims made Aggregate policy. And a welcome letter was also 
sent asking Mr M to read through all the policy documentation to ensure it was correct and 
met his requirements. So Im satisfied that AGI provided information that was clear, fair and 
not misleading.
I appreciate that AGI did not offer Mr M a claims occurring policy. But I cannot see that he 
made any such request, so there was no obligation on them to discuss other types of policy. 
And AGI have also said that the prevailing market conditions in the UK at the time wouldve 
made it highly unlikely that they couldve offered Mr M a claims occurring policy. So even if 
they had discussed the difference between the two policies, it seems unlikely Mr M would 
have been able to source such cover. 
Mr M also says he was not adequately warned about the consequences of not renewing his 
policy. I can see that he emailed AGI on 15 March 2016 telling them not to renew his policy. 
AGI responded on 16 March 2016 saying:
While I recognise you may not want to renew your policy with us this year, we are 
under an obligation just to issue a wee reminder
Professional indemnity cover is arranged on a claims made basis, cancellation of 
cover meant that you can no longer submit a claim, even if the policy was in force at 
the time of the incident or circumstances occurred [sic]. 
When obtaining Professional Indemnity cover in the future you should advise of any 
gaps in cover. Please note some insurers may charge an additional premium if you 
require retrospective cover for this period.
AGI asked Mr M if he still wanted to cancel on this basis and said that in the absence of 
your reply it is confirmed we will arrange for your policy to be lapsed as instructed. So I think 
they made the consequences sufficiently clear to Mr M, and gave him a chance to continue 
with the cover if he wanted to. But given that he did not respond to their email, I think it was 
reasonable of AGI to act on his instructions to allow the policy to lapse. 
As a result, I do not think AGI have acted unfairly or unreasonably, and I do not consider the 
policy to have been mis-sold. So I will not be asking them to return the premiums Mr M has 
paid, as he benefited from being covered by the policy while the insurance was in place. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 June 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman