DRN-3237731
The complaint
Miss D complains that the amount shes paid for an over-50s plan with Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Limited is now more than the policy will pay out. Shes also unhappy that the business 
providing the plan has changed over the years. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. The 
facts arent in dispute so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
This appears to have been an unadvised sale. That means Aviva just needed to 
provide clear and accurate information to Miss D for the service to be reasonable.
The documents Aviva say they used at the time were clear and accurate about the 
details of the policy. It seems likely that similar documents would have been sent to 
Miss D.
The premiums Miss D paid were for a life assurance policy. That meant that if Miss D 
died while the plan was active, shed receive a pre-agreed amount of money.
While I appreciate Miss D feels its unfair the pre-agreed amount is now less than the 
total shes paid for the plan, its worth noting that if Miss D had died earlier the plan 
would have paid out the same amount  even if that was more than shed paid in. 
That balancing of the chance for profit and loss for Miss D and Aviva is what makes 
the agreement fair for both sides. And the terms were clear that was a possibility. So 
I find the plan was fair, and Miss D had enough information to make an informed 
choice about agreeing to it when she signed up. 
The changes to the business running the plan reflect that businesses develop over 
time, as technologies, regulations and other factors change. What matters for a fair 
and reasonable level of service is that customers dont suffer due to any changes.
Here, Aviva have explained that the change to the business running the plan meant 
Miss D would have been written to on paper with a different letter-head. And they say 
the name on the direct debit for the policy would have changed. But everything else 
would have stayed the same. 
I cant see that the changes here could have caused a significant impact on Miss D. I 
see nothing to say Aviva handled the change in business unreasonably. 
For these reasons I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman