DRN-2114992
The complaint
Mr W complains that Nationwide Building Society gave a fraudster details about his account 
and then allowed a payment he didnt authorise.
What happened
Mr W received a message from Nationwide on 1 September 2019 about a payment he didnt 
recognise for £1,755.25 from his account. He called it and realised that a fraudster had been 
able to impersonate him on an earlier call. The payment debited his account on 2 September 
2019 and Mr W received a refund from the merchant involved on 3 September 2019. He 
later obtained the transcript of the call with the fraudster and was very dissatisfied with 
Nationwides security processes. Mr W also said that this money was important to him for a 
property purchase he was due to make and that he was very anxious about what happened.
Nationwide said it wasnt responsible for a data breach as the fraudster already had 
sufficient information to pass security. An earlier payment had been blocked from the 
account. That block was removed which allowed the fraudster to make a successful payment 
after the call. But its agent should have recognised that the number the fraudster was calling 
from wasnt that registered for Mr W and made an additional check. In its final response it 
said that an error was made and Im very sorry this resulted in a fraudulent payment 
being taken [] as the correct security procedure wasnt followed. Nationwide offered to 
pay Mr W £125 in compensation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Nationwide do more than this. He said that the 
merchant involved had refunded the money within about 24 hours and then Nationwide had 
too before correcting the duplication of the refund. He said he was thinking about how to put 
Mr W in the position he should have been in. And he couldnt look at what might have 
happened if the money hadnt been returned quickly. He understood the distress and 
inconvenience for Mr W and also thought about the extent that this was caused by the 
fraudster who already had information about Mr W.
Our investigator accepted that Mr W was careful with his information and had a relevant 
professional background. But he saw no evidence that say a member of Nationwide staff 
had colluded in this fraud as Mr W had referred to. Some of the information used to verify the 
caller wasnt difficult to obtain but was also commonly used in this way. It was Nationwides 
decision how to set its processes. Here it accepted an error and he thought that the 
compensation was reasonable. Mr W had made reference to previous cases, but we look at 
each one separately.
Mr W didnt agree.  He wanted to clarify that in his complaint he didnt think that collusion 
had happened between a staff member and the fraudster  but that this could happen. And 
because its procedures were lax his data was breached. Nationwide says it complies with 
Financial Conduct Authority requirements and we said we wouldnt look at the processes so 
this was a circular argument. He wanted to know who could comment on this issue. He 
considered he had little protection as a consumer and that other banks didnt make things so 
easy for a fraudster. Mr W said his complaint was never about getting his money back but 
about Nationwides attitude and his severe anxiety before the money was returned. He 
considered case precedence was part of English Law and the case he referred to was very 
similar to his. He wanted an ombudsman to look at whether Nationwides procedures were 
robust and fair, if there had been a data breach, whether wed contacted the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) about its guidelines, where he could go to pursue this further, and 
to consider an increase in compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to start by saying that we provide informal dispute resolution and we arent the 
regulator. And so, I will also clarify that as part of this complaint we havent received any 
specific information from the FCA. Thats because I wont be commenting on Nationwides 
processes generally or saying whether they are fit for purpose as Mr W wants me to. Thats 
not our role and what I will look at here is specifically what happened in Mr Ws complaint. 
As our investigator has set out a fraudster had already obtained information about Mr W 
including his card details and some personal information. And that fraudster was clearly 
responsible for distress and inconvenience to Mr W by carrying out the fraud. 
Mr W has seen a transcript of the call Nationwide had with the fraudster. Its clear that after 
some security questions were answered correctly, information about his bank account and 
recent payments was disclosed. Mr W wants me to say if that was a data breach by 
Nationwide. I dont consider it was as it was only possible as a fraudster had somehow 
obtained sufficient information to impersonate him. 
It was only later in the call that the fraudster asked about the payment that had been 
blocked. Nationwide accepts that it shouldnt have removed the block. The number the caller 
was using didnt match that of Mr W even though the fraudster seemed to know it. An 
additional security question should have followed. 
It does seem that the member of staff dealing with the call quickly realised the mistake and 
attempts were made to phone Mr W about this. But a successful payment was made within 
minutes of the call. Mr W did receive the message but as he was driving couldnt phone back 
for nearly an hour. When he did I think Nationwide realised quickly what had happened. 
There was no suggestion during the call Ive listened to with Mr W that this was other than a 
fraud.
Under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 Mr W wouldnt generally be responsible for a 
payment he hadnt authorised. And Nationwide refunded this clearly fraudulent payment 
within its normal timescales. It didnt respond further to Mr W until he complained but says it 
wouldnt where a fraud claim is accepted, and a refund made.
There is no evidence of direct financial loss for Mr W here given the money was quickly 
refunded. Mr W hasnt said that there had been any other attempts to use the data that 
Nationwide disclosed and he has clearly been vigilant about this. His property purchase 
wasnt affected. I do though need to think about a payment for distress and inconvenience 
from Nationwide. By chance a past case Mr W refers to was one hell see from public 
information that I made a decision on. We dont set precedent in specific cases or explain 
differences between them, but we publish guidelines about trouble and upset. And as in     
Mr Ws case all the information and circumstances are taken into account and I will here 
apply my own judgement. Mr W has asked for his time dealing with this to be covered and so 
for compensation in excess of £1,000.We rarely make awards for time and this wouldnt be at professional rates. Here having 
considered all the factors Ive set out I find that the compensation offered is adequate and so 
Im afraid I wont be increasing it.
I know Mr W will be disappointed with this and that as Ive explained I wont be dealing with 
some of the points he makes about Nationwides processes. If he doesnt accept my 
decision he remains free to pursue this in court subject to any relevant time limits. On the 
other points he can contact the FCA and Information Commissioners Office as I think he has 
already. I wont be in a position to address those matters beyond what Ive said in this 
decision.
My final decision
Nationwide has made an offer to settle this complaint which I think is fair in the 
circumstances. So, my decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr W £125.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman