DRN-2225539
The complaint
Mr D complains that BISL Limited unfairly increased the cost of his home insurance policy.
Mr D is represented by his daughter in bringing this complaint. But for clarity  Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by Mr D directly.
What happened
Mr D held a home insurance policy, which was arranged by BISL. His daughter helped him 
in taking out his policy online in 2009 for £126.47. Mr Ds premiums increased each year and 
his policy automatically renewed each year until January 2020 when it was cancelled. Mr D 
paid for his insurance by monthly instalments.
In around December 2019 Mr D was discussing home insurance with family members. When 
he mentioned what he was paying his family were shocked. They thought he was paying too 
much. And, as Mr D doesnt have access to a computer or the internet, his daughter 
compared the insurance market on his behalf. 
After Mr Ds daughter compared the market, she was able to find a substantially cheaper 
policy, at a cost £125. Mr D said the replacement policy offered the same level of cover. So, 
he decided to take out an alternative policy. He therefore cancelled his direct debit with 
BISL. He said he wasnt aware he had to contact BISL in order to cancel his policy. 
On 31 December 2019, BISL received notification from Mr Ds bank informing it hed 
cancelled his direct debt instruction. So, on 6 January 2020, it sent him a default notice, 
which explained that hed missed a monthly payment and also owed a £20 missed payment 
fee on his policy. 
The following week, BISL wrote to Mr D again. It explained that it was intending to cancel his 
home insurance due to the arrears on his account and said the cancellation would take 
effect on 24 January 2020 unless payment was made to bring the account up to date. It also 
stated that a policy cancellation would incur a fee of £35. 
Mr D said the correspondence he received from BISL threatened to refer the debt to debt 
collectors if it remained unpaid, which caused him significant distress and worry. So, in 
February 2020, Mr Ds daughter contacted BISL to complain about the correspondence her 
father had received. It agreed to write off the arrears and waive the fees it had applied. 
When Mr Ds daughter queried the premium increases her father had experienced, BISL 
stated the premiums had been correctly calculated. 
Mr D wasnt satisfied with how BISL had dealt with his complaint. So, he referred it to our 
service. Our investigator looked into what had happened but didnt recommend upholding 
this complaint. She explained that new policy prices are often discounted, and thats partly 
why the new policy Mr D took out was quoted much cheaper. And she thought BISL had 
priced Mr Ds policy in the same way it would have done for any customer with similar 
insurance requirements. So, she wasnt satisfied that Mr D had been overcharged. BISL 
accepted our investigators view of this complaint. But Mr D requested an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr D experienced here. Its clear that he, and his 
family, feel BISL has been overcharging him for the policies hes held over the years and 
that hes been disadvantaged by renewing his policy each year. 
I think its important to explain that BISL is an intermediary  it sells and administers 
insurance policies on behalf of a panel of insurers.
Id also like to make it clear that I dont have the power to tell a business what its insurance 
should cost. I would be, in effect determining or telling a business how it should operate  
and thats not my role. Within my role I can look at whether BISL treated Mr D fairly during 
the time he held his policy. 
In assessing the issue of whether BISL unfairly increased the cost of Mr Ds policy over the 
years, Ive considered a number of things. Ive looked at information about the cost of the 
annual premiums Mr D paid over the years, what BISL has said about how the premiums 
were calculated, and what Mr Ds daughter told us about her father. 
Its not in dispute that the new policy is very much cheaper than the premium BISL offered in 
its 2019 renewal invitation. I can see the renewal invitation quoted an annual premium of 
£560.71, which had increased from £474.41 the previous year.
Mr D seems to believe that, because his new policy was substantially cheaper than the price 
of his renewal quote, this indicates BISL has been unfairly increasing his premiums over the 
years. And I can understand why he, and his family, may think this. But the insurance market 
is very competitive. So, its not uncommon for new policies to be cheaper as a result of 
introductory offers in order to attract new customers. 
New customer discounts are usually removed following renewal of the policy, which then 
increases the cost of insurance in subsequent years. In addition to this, different insurers 
calculate premiums in different ways and their assessment of risk can vary too. So, the fact 
that Mr D found a cheaper policy elsewhere doesnt necessarily mean BISL unfairly 
increased his premiums each year.
Mr Ds daughter has made our service aware that her father is vulnerable, has health needs 
and is unable to search for alternative insurance cover as he doesnt have access to a 
computer or the internet. 
I accept whats been said about Mr Ds vulnerability and difficulty in shopping around. I say 
this because I can see Mr D had to ask his daughter to compare the insurance market and 
raise a complaint with our service on his behalf. He also gave his daughter permission to 
speak to BISL on his behalf regarding the cancellation of his policy.
I think that, given Mr Ds vulnerabilities, he wouldnt necessarily have been aware that 
shopping around online could have been beneficial to him. And I think, even if he had known 
he could shop around online, hed have found it very difficult to try and compare the 
insurance market prior to each renewal.  I can see that when Mr D took out his policy in 2009 it cost £126.47. Thereafter, the price of 
his policy steadily increased year-on-year until 2019 when it had risen to £560.71. I can 
understand why, based on these increases, Mr Ds concerned hes been overcharged during 
the time hes been insured by BISL. 
Ive already mentioned that when a new policy is incepted, an insurer provides the new 
customer with a discount incentive in order to attract new business. So, when Mr D took out 
his policy in 2009 hed have benefitted from a new customer incentive. And this would have 
made his insurance policy cheaper and more competitive.
In common with other insurers, BISL would then gradually increase the price of Mr Ds policy 
to bring it up to what it felt was the correct price  reflecting its view of risk, the level of cover 
requested and its needs as a business to make a profit. 
I think the premium rises between 2009 and 2014 are typical of what Id expect to see of how 
an insurer increases the premium in the years after a policy is incepted. The increases also 
take into account inflation and Insurance Premium Tax rises. Im satisfied that the increases 
during those years reflect typical business practice whereby an insurer seeks to recoup its 
new incentive customer discount. This would have happened irrespective of whether or not a 
customer was engaging with BISL. So, I cant say BISL did anything wrong in removing a 
new business incentive. 
By 2014, wed expect an insurer to have recouped its new incentive customer discount. 
However, at this point the underwriter of Mr Ds policy was changed. So, the premiums from 
2014 onwards reflect how the new insurer viewed risk and priced Mr Ds policy. Mr D says 
his personal circumstances didnt change from 2014 onwards and he hadnt made any 
claims. This is why he believes the premium increases were unfair.
Ive carefully considered the level of engagement Mr D had with BISL over the years he was 
on cover. Based on the evidence Ive seen it appears there was engagement from Mr D 
shortly after he incepted his policy as he wanted to discuss a claim and query whether short 
term insurance could be provided on a vehicle. Thereafter, Mr D only engaged once more 
and this was in June 2010 when he called to discuss adding contents cover to his policy.
Given the level of Mr Ds disengagement and vulnerability, Ive considered whether BISL 
could have done more to recognise that he was unlikely to contact it about his premium 
price. I think it ought to have been aware that Mr D lacked access to shop around in order to 
compare the insurance market. 
However, Ive also considered what information BISL provided to Mr D on its renewal 
invitations over the year. I can see that each renewal invitation BISL sent states in clear 
language:
You have been with us for a number of years. You may be able to get the insurance cover 
you want at a better price if you shop around.
This information can be found directly underneath the renewal price. So, its in a prominent 
position that can easily be seen. Each invitation also clearly showed Mr D how much hed 
paid the previous year. I think this was transparent and informed Mr D that he may have 
been able to obtain a cheaper policy elsewhere. 
BISL has provided business records showing that renewal documents were posted to Mr D 
each year. While I accept what Mr Ds daughter told our service about her father not being 
able to shop around online, I think he could have taken steps to ask for  assistance in finding 
a more competitive quote earlier  as happened late 2019.Ive thought about whether Mr Ds disengagement would have affected how much he was 
paying for his policies. Assuming he wanted his level of cover to remain the same as in 
previous years, Im not persuaded engaging with BISL would have changed the outcome. Ill 
explain why.
As Ive already mentioned, BISL is an intermediary with access to a panel of insurers. Before 
sending a renewal invitation to a customer, it searches its panel of insurers in efforts to 
obtain the most favourable quote on their behalf. It can only search insurers, however, on its 
panel. So, it can only compare premiums from those offering quotes.
I havent seen any evidence to demonstrate that BISL didnt offer Mr D the most competitive 
quote from its panel in renewal invitations. Theres nothing to suggest there were cheaper 
policies available to BISL. And I think this would have been the same for any other customer 
with the same insurance requirements that Mr D had. I therefore dont think Mr D has been 
disadvantaged or treated unfairly as a result of his loyalty and disengagement with BISL.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, when Mr D notified BISL that he wanted 
to cancel his policy as hed taken out insurance elsewhere, it agreed to waive the rejected 
direct debit payment, missed payment fee and cancellation charge. I think this demonstrates 
BISL was acting fairly and reasonably. Its not something Id have asked it to do as part of 
this decision. I say this because Mr D didnt cancel his policy as was required. He simply 
cancelled his direct debit. The renewal notices he was sent each year detail BISLs 
cancellation process. And I think Mr D ought to have been aware that his insurance was 
auto-renewing each year.
I appreciate that it must have been upsetting for Mr D, and his family, to find out that other, 
cheaper options were available to him but I dont think BISL overcharged him. Im therefore 
not going to ask it to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
Mr Ds daughter may wish to note that the regulator of insurance firms is the Financial 
Conduct Authority and she can contact them regarding her concerns about unfair practices 
in the pricing of insurance policies.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman