DRN-3699892
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund money she says was
stolen from her, and with how Barclays have treated her as a customer.
What happened
Ms S brought a complaint to our service, raising multiple issues including:
Shes lost over £20,000 from her Barclays accounts and believes Barclays should
refund her.*
She believes Barclays have issued multiple debit cards on her account, which she
hasnt received.
Her best friend stole debit cards and card details from her home.*
Someone she trusted and who had her card details stole money from her (Ill refer to
this individual as G).*
Ms S believes loans may have been taken out in her name by someone else.
Other people were able to access her Barclays online banking without her
knowledge.
She received over £13,000 into her account from the government in October 2018,
but by February 2019 all of the money had gone. Ms S says she bought a settee, but
the rest of the money was taken by someone else.*
* these points are referred to later in the decision
Ms S raised a number of other issues which I havent included, purely because they arent
related to Barclays actions or about her accounts held with Barclays.
Barclays say Ms S raised a fraud claim with them, but she couldnt tell them which individual
transactions she was disputing. They sent her bank statements and asked her to highlight
the transactions she didnt make, but Ms S didnt send the bank statements back. Barclays
say without knowing which transactions Ms S is disputing, they are unable to do a fraud
investigation.
Ms Ss case was assigned to an investigator at our service, who spoke to Ms S to try and
identify the transactions she says she didnt make. Following their calls, the investigator was
able to clarify the complaint points Ms S was raising (which are included above), but they
were unable to identify which individual transactions Ms S was saying werent made by her.
The investigator felt Barclays couldve done more to progress Ms Ss fraud claim and
recommended Barclays pay Ms S £100 as a result. They also asked Barclays to arrange an
appointment in Ms Ss local branch and for them to provide bank statements at the
appointment so Ms S can identify the transactions shes disputing.
The investigator told Ms S:
We cant look at any transactions made before 2016, as we cant look into complaints
about events that happened more than six years ago. So, we could only look at
transactions from 2016 onwards.
All of the accounts Ms S held with Barclays were in her sole name, with no third-party
authority or Power of Attorney. So, no one else had authority to access Ms Ss
Barclays accounts.
Neither online banking nor mobile banking was ever used on Ms Ss Barclays
accounts.
All debit cards that Barclays issued were sent to the address Barclays held for Ms S.
Ms S raised her fraud allegations with her local police authority, who told us that the
transactions Ms S was disputing appeared to have been completed by Ms S for
legitimate purchases and payments. They confirmed no one had hacked Ms Ss
phone and that during their investigation G was acting as Ms Ss appropriate adult
and they didnt notice anything suspicious about his behaviour. The police also spoke
to the council and Ms Ss bank managers and confirmed that nothing fraudulent was
found on her accounts.
Having reviewed a copy of Ms Ss credit report there is no evidence of accounts
opened with Barclays other than the accounts Ms S knows about.
Ms Ss bank statements show credits of over £13,000 paid into her account in
October 2018. It appears these funds were spent at various retailers and through
ATMs over a period of time. In order for someone to use Ms Ss card at the ATM to
make the withdrawals, Ms S would have had to tell them her PIN. This would be in
breach of the terms and conditions of her account.
Based on the information the investigator had been given, they couldnt fairly say
there had been any fraud on Ms Ss Barclays accounts.
Ms S disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying someone has taken money from her
Barclays account. Ms S believes that G is involved in the money that is missing.
As Ms S didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
 My provisional findings
On 2 September 2022, I issued a provisional decision explaining I intended to ask Barclays 
to pay a higher amount of compensation and wouldnt be considering some of Ms Ss 
complaint points as part of my decision. I asked for both parties to provide any more 
comments or evidence they wanted to be considered before issuing my final decision. 
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by reassuring Ms S that Ive listened to the calls she had with our service andunderstand the distress shes experienced in trying to find out whats happened to her
money. If I havent covered a point in my decision, its not because it isnt important to Ms S,
but because I am limited as to what I can consider as part of her case against Barclays.
The fraud on Ms Ss Barclays account  what Im not considering in my decision
Without Ms S identifying which specific transactions she didnt make, Barclays cant carry
out a fraud investigation and cant provide us with the relevant evidence in relation to Ms Ss
complaint. And, without both of those things, Im unable to reach a fair and reasonable
finding on whether Ms S can fairly be held liable for the transactions shes disputing.
A final decision is the end of the complaint process with our service, and our service wont
consider issues that are covered in a previous final decision. That means, if I make a finding
regarding the disputed transactions, Ms S wouldnt be able to bring a new complaint about
them.
In the circumstances, I think the fairest course of action is to allow Ms S to provide Barclays
with a list of the specific transactions she is disputing and for Barclays to carry out a fraud
investigation. If Ms S isnt happy with the outcome of Barclays fraud investigation, she can
bring a new complaint to our service. But Ms S wont be able to complain about the points I
have covered in this decision.
To help, Ive marked on page one with an * the complaint points that should be covered
under a new complaint once Ms S has identified for Barclays which specific transactions she
didnt make. Barclays has confirmed theyll make an appointment for Ms S at a local branch
and will provide her with copies of her bank statements. The investigator recommended that
Ms S have a representative help her with this, and I strongly support this suggestion. Having
a representative should reduce the potential distress that Ms S may experience in making
her complaint.
Its important for Ms S to know that we wont be able to consider any transactions that
happened more than six years before she raised her original complaint with Barclays -
unless Barclays consent to us looking into them. Also, if Ms S is unable to identify specific
transactions as part of her complaint, its unlikely Barclays will be unable to carry out the
fraud investigation. I appreciate that Ive repeated this point, but it is very important in order
for Ms S to get the answers she is looking for.
The issues I have considered and the answer Ive reached on them
The cards issued on Ms Ss accounts by Barclays
Ms S is concerned that Barclays have issued multiple cards on her accounts, which she
says she never received. Ms S believes they have been taken by other parties and used to
steal money from her account.
Barclays gave us a list of the cards that were issued on Ms Ss accounts and confirmed that
all of the cards were sent to the address they held for Ms S. More importantly, Barclays have
told us that the first time a new replacement card is used, the old card immediately stops 
working. This means Ms S wouldve known if someone else had obtained a card on her
account without her knowledge, as the card she was using would have stopped working.
If that had happened, I think its most likely that Ms S wouldve been in touch with Barclays
straight away to find out why her card wasnt working. Having reviewed the contact notes
Barclays have provided, I cant see this has happened. There are no notes that suggest
Ms S contacted them due to her card suddenly not working, so I think its most likely thatMs S received the cards that Barclays sent.
Based on this, I cant fairly say that Barclays have done anything wrong with regards to the
cards theyve issued on Ms Ss account.
Has anyone taken out loans in Ms Ss name with Barclays?
As the investigator explained in their view, they obtained a copy of Ms Ss credit report. The
Barclays accounts on the credit report match the accounts Ms S knows about, and there are
no Barclays loans showing in Ms Ss name. As this case is against Barclays, I can only look
at the entries relating to Barclays.
We can provide Ms S with a copy of her credit report, which may give her some reassurance
about what is showing on her report. Ms S can also access her credit report for free through
a number of different companies online. Most of these companies can help Ms S monitor her
credit report by providing updates when any new entries are added.
I havent seen any evidence that suggests that a loan was taken out with Barclays in Ms Ss
name, so I cant see that Barclays has done anything wrong.
Did anyone else access Ms Ss online banking or mobile banking with Barclays?
Barclays have confirmed that while Ms S registered for mobile banking in July 2017, it was
never used to access her Barclays accounts. It was unclear if Ms S had registered for online
banking, however, Barclays have confirmed that online banking has also never been used to
access Ms Ss Barclays accounts.
Based on the information that Barclays have provided, Ive seen no evidence that suggests
anyone used Ms Ss online or mobile banking to access her accounts. So, I cant fairly say
that Barclays has done anything wrong.
How Barclays have treated Ms S as a customer
Ms S is unhappy with the level of customer service shes received from Barclays. She feels
they havent helped her to find out who has taken money from her, or to protect her
accounts.
I can see that Ms S asked for a home visit in 2021 in relation to her fraud claim, but Barclays
was unable to go to her home due to the Covid situation  which I think is reasonable.
Instead Barclays posted her bank statements to her. Ms S says she didnt get the bank
statements, and Barclays say they never received them back with the disputed transactions
highlighted.
Barclays notes show they were aware of Ms Ss vulnerabilities, and in this case, I think
Barclays couldve done more to help Ms S progress her complaint. Based on Ms Ss
vulnerability I think it wouldve been more appropriate for them to arrange a branch-based
appointment to go through her statements with her  which theyre now offering to do.
The investigator recommended Barclays pay Ms S £100. But, considering how vulnerable
Ms S is and the impact this has had on Ms Ss mental wellbeing, I think a payment of £250 is
more appropriate - so I intend to ask Barclays to pay Ms S £250.In summary
I realise that Ms S is going to be extremely disappointed and I dont want to cause her any
more distress. But I can only reach what I consider to be a fair answer based on the
evidence Ive been given including what both sides have told us.
As Ive explained above, I am not making a finding on the transactions Ms S says she didnt
make as Barclays havent been told which specific transactions she is disputing, which is
needed in order for them to carry out an investigation. Ms S will need to visit a Barclays
branch, preferably with a representative, and use her statements to show Barclays which
payments werent made by her.
Putting things right
To put things right Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Ms S £250 compensation.
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and will require Barclays to
compensate Ms S as set out above.
Responses to the provisional decision
Barclays havent responded to my provisional decision.
Ms S responded and Ive listened to the call she had with our investigator. In the call Ms S 
referred to the following issues not related to her Barclays complaint:
Phone contracts being taken out in her name due to ID theft.
Issues with her router and her phone being compromised.
Issues she has with money being taken from an account she holds with another 
bank.
Her credit report showing different entries than we referred to in the decision 
including different insurances that have been taken out and links to a previous 
partner.
The use of the incorrect year for when she purchased her car.
As part of the same call Ms S referred to the following points which relate to this case and 
her Barclays account:
She cant understand how were agreeing with Barclays.
Barclays says she had money in 2010 which is wrong.
Nothing makes sense to her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive separated out the points Ms S raised, as the first set relates to issues she has with other 
companies and arent related to this complaint against Barclays. I cant consider or address 
issues with phone contracts taken out in her name, items on her credit report relating to insurance or other companies, or issues with another bank account. In looking at her credit 
report I only looked at what facilities it showed in Ms Ss name taken out with Barclays  as 
that is who her complaint is against. I havent and cant consider other entries on her credit 
report in this complaint.
Ms S raised a point about Barclays saying she had money in 2010, which she says is 
incorrect. However, I cant see that this relates to the decision Ive reached, or the complaint 
points Ive addressed.
A number of points Ms S raised relate to a larger issue around money being stolen from her, 
and I realise that includes money taken from her Barclays accounts. But as I said in the 
provisional decision. Ms S needs to tell Barclays specifically which payments taken out of 
her account  werent done by her. 
Barclays then need to investigate those transactions, and if Ms S isnt happy with their 
response, she can bring a complaint to our service. Barclays wont be able to investigate a 
claim that money has been taken from Ms Ss account, without knowing which specific 
transactions it involves. Similarly, we cant investigate a complaint about funds being taken 
from Ms Ss Barclays account if we dont know which individual transactions she is 
complaining about. 
Ms S says she cant understand how we agreed with Barclays. Id like to reassure Ms S that 
I have listened to the calls shes had with our service and considered the evidence and 
testimony that shes given us in reaching my decision. 
Im very sorry that Ms S feels we havent fairly considered her complaint, and that she feels 
we havent provided her with the help she needs about a much wider issue around money 
being stolen from her. But I have spent a lot of time considering her complaint, the points 
she raised, which points we can address and what is a fair answer based on everything we 
got from Ms S and Barclays.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms S, but having considered everything shes told us in response to 
the provisional decision, I cant see any reason to reach a different answer. From what Ive 
seen, Barclays shouldve done more to help Ms S progress her complaint. And, in the 
circumstances, I think £250 compensation is a fair award.
Putting things right
To put things right Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Ms S £250 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and will require Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to compensate Ms S as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman