DRN-2574433
The complaint
Mrs and Mr As complaint is about the decision by Scottish Friendly Assurance Society 
Limited not to allow them to split their joint life assurance policy into separate policies.
 
Scottish Friendly is the product provider and underwriter of the policy. All references to 
Scottish Friendly will include its agents.
What happened
In September 2016 Mrs and Mr A took out an over 50s life assurance plan (the policy). This 
is a joint policy providing whole of life cover for both Mrs and Mr A, which pays a fixed 
amount of £3,500 on each death. Whilst the monthly premiums for Mrs and Mr A were set at 
different rates, only one monthly payment of £46 was due under one policy number. The 
policy schedule shows Mrs A as the policyowner, and both her and Mr A are named as the 
lives insured. 
In 2020, following their divorce, Mrs and Mr A contacted Scottish Friendly asking to have the 
policy split into separate policies. But Scottish Friendly said they were unwilling to do this. 
Mrs and Mr A complained saying theyd been led to believe during the sales call that they 
were buying two single policies. And even if it is a joint policy, Mrs and Mr A think they 
should be allowed to split the policy given their circumstances.
Scottish Friendly didnt uphold the complaint. It said in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy, it was unable to guarantee itd make changes requested by policyholders. 
Scottish Friendly said that Mrs and Mr A would need to take out new policies in their own 
name. Alternatively, it said Mrs A could retain the policy in her name but nothing would be 
refunded to Mr A if this is what they decided to do. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In short, he didnt think Scottish Friendly was 
being unfair as it was acting within the terms of the policy.
Mrs and Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision on the matter. In brief, 
they said:
The policy was mis-sold to them;
Its unfair that other changes can be made but not the change Mrs and Mr A require;
If the policy cant be changed, they want a refund of the premiums paid so far;
Mr A has concerns about what will happen to the policy if Mrs A died first and it 
remained in her name as policyowner.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully noted all the representations made by Mrs and Mr A, but I wont be 
addressing every single point theyve raised. Ive instead concentrated on the issues I think 
are central to the outcome of theyre complaint.
In terms of the complaint Mrs and Mr A have about what they were told during the sales 
process, this is being dealt with separately against the business responsible for the sale. But 
Im satisfied the business who is responsible for the decision as to whether the policy can be 
split into single policies, lies with Scottish Friendly as the underwriter of the policy.
The terms and conditions of the policy say: For joint plans, should a life insured pass away, 
the remaining life insured can continue their cover and pay the required premiums under a 
single plan should they wish to do so. These terms dont provide for any other circumstance 
where the policy can be changed into a single policy. Further, policyholders are told that 
when changes are applied for, Scottish Friendly cant guarantee it will be able to make the 
requested changes. All in all, in light of the terms and conditions that were sent to Mrs and 
Mr A at the start of the policy, I dont think Scottish Friendly did anything wrong when it said 
it was unwilling to change their (Mrs and Mr As) joint policy into two separate policies.
Mrs and Mr A say it wasnt made clear to them that the policy was a joint plan. But this 
seems to be in respect of what they were told during the sales process  as Ive said this is 
being considered separately. As far as the explanatory documents sent to them by Scottish 
Friendly, I think it was made reasonably clear that the policy Mrs and Mr A had, was a joint 
policy. Notably, the policy schedule shows only one policy number and lists both Mrs and 
Mr A as the lives insured. 
Mrs and Mr A say they cant understand why if the policy can be changed to a single policy 
when one of the lives insured dies, it cant be done for their situation. I also note what they 
say about other changes that can be made such as adding a partner to the policy, or the 
changes Scottish Friendly itself can decide to make. Ultimately its for Scottish Friendly to set 
its own terms and conditions  this is a legitimate business decision which its entitled to 
make. Im satisfied Mrs and Mr A were supplied with documentation that was clear, fair and 
not misleading. In particular, I consider Scottish Friendlys terms and conditions document 
makes it reasonably clear what will happen if requests to change the policy are made.
I see Scottish Friendly have now said its willing to allow Mrs A to keep the policy in her own 
name and adjust the premiums accordingly. However, this would mean Mr A will lose his 
benefits and the premiums paid so far wont be refunded. I appreciate why Mrs and Mr A 
dont want to do this. But they purchased a policy on the understanding it was a joint policy. 
And given Mrs and Mr A have received the benefit of life cover up until this point, I cant fairly 
ask Scottish Friendly to refund the premiums if they (Mrs and Mr A) decide to change the 
policy or cancel it.
Finally, Mr A says hes concerned about what will happen to the policy if Mrs A, who is the 
policyowner, dies first. But I can see this situation is covered by the terms of the policy which 
Ive outlined above. If Mrs and Mr A have further questions about what will happen under 
these circumstances, this is best dealt with by Scottish Friendly.
For all these reasons, whilst I appreciate this will be a disappointing outcome for Mrs and 
Mr A, Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman