DRN-4239162
The complaint
Mr P has complained that the servicing arrangements for his new car were misrepresented 
by Vertu Motors (VMC) Limited (Vertu) and that this induced him into taking out a contract 
hire agreement for that particular car.
What happened
Mr P acquired a new Audi in September 2019, using a consumer hire agreement over a 36-
month term. The advance rental was £2,174.16, followed by 35 payments of £296.40. The 
agreement didnt cover servicing or other maintenance costs, and the annual mileage limit 
was set at 10,000.
Mr P said he was told that the car would require servicing every 18,000 miles or two years, 
whichever comes sooner. However the car required servicing at 9,300 miles and 15 months 
and again at 14,000 miles and 23 months. He said he chose that specific car and the terms 
of finance on the basis of the car having an extended servicing regime, which in fact it did 
not have. Those negotiations and discussions were conducted with Vertu.
Mr P complained to Vertu, raising the Misrepresentation Act 1967. Vertu disagreed on this 
point, but made a goodwill offer of a refund of the additional service costs Mr P had had to 
pay, as against what he had expected to pay. Vertu had already refunded £250 in this 
respect, but offered to refund a further £225.
Mr P was unhappy about this, and brought his complaint to this service. He thinks that Vertu 
should refund the advance rental payment of £2,174.16.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint, but concluded that Vertus offer of 
recompense was fair and reasonable, and therefore the complaint should not be upheld. Mr 
P disagreed, and asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
I should also say at this point that this service has separately considered a complaint about 
this matter against the finance company, and another ombudsman decided that it should not 
be upheld. This complaint relates only to Vertus involvement in the transaction.
I issued a provisional decision in June 2023, in which I explained that I agreed with our 
investigator that the complaint should not be upheld, albeit for slightly different reasons. 
Vertu responded to say that it agreed with my conclusions. Mr P said he did not agree with 
my provisional decision, and raised a number of points which I have set out below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having carefully considered all of the evidence, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Ill explain why. 
In my provisional decision, I set out my reasoning as follows:
Mr P sent in a very comprehensive set of documentation relating to this complaint, including 
correspondence with Vertu and the manufacturer and finance company. I have not 
referenced every document, but I have read and considered them all. Vertu also provided 
relevant documents.
The consumer hire agreement included the following clause You agree to.make sure 
that the Vehicle is serviced and maintained strictly in line with the manufacturer's 
recommendations and that scheduled servicing and necessary maintenance is carried out 
only by authorised Audi dealers.
The Key Information Responsibilities document from the finance company also said 
"Servicing.Ensure the vehicle Is serviced In accordance with the manufacturer's 
recommended Intervals by an Audi Centre. You are responsible for any damage not deemed 
to be fair wear and tear.
As I noted above, the agreement didnt cover servicing or other maintenance costs, although 
I can see from the documentation provided that Mr P could have chosen to pay an additional 
monthly payment to include them.
It seems there were two types of service schedule available  Mr P sent in screenshots of 
the manufacturers website which showed these as fixed (every 9,300 miles or one year, 
whichever comes sooner) and flexible (up to 18,600 miles or two years, whichever comes 
sooner). I can see that Mr P has been in correspondence with the manufacturer about the 
presentation of the servicing information, but as I am only considering Vertus involvement I 
will make no further comment about that.
However, it also appears that no discussion about which was most appropriate took place, 
and it is not in dispute that Mr P wasnt given full information about the service schedule, and 
understood that the flexible service schedule applied. So he was expecting to have to have 
the car serviced once during the life of the hire agreement, but as I noted above, it required 
servicing on two occasions.
Mr P said that the finance agreement was misrepresented by Vertu, and Vertu should have 
afforded him the opportunity to make a fully informed decision, in full and transparent receipt 
of accurate facts, that best suited his individual circumstances, when he was thinking of 
entering into that financial contract.
He further said that, in order to acquire the Audi at a similar (but still higher) monthly 
payment than an equivalent similar car, he had to increase the initial payment from three 
times the monthly lease payment to the equivalent of six times the monthly lease payment, 
and take the car over a three-year term as opposed to a two-year term, and he would not 
have made those decisions had he not believed the Audi to have had a service interval of 
every 18,000 miles or two years, whichever comes sooner. Instead, he said, he would 
likely have chosen a less premium make of car, with a lower initial lease payment and lower 
monthly payments, a payment profile based on three months initial payment as opposed to 
six months, and gone for a two-year term of agreement as opposed to a three-year term, 
thus reducing the total value of the contract by around a third.In terms of misrepresentation, I need to consider whether a false statement of fact has been 
made, and whether this false statement induced Mr P to enter into the agreement.
Having considered all of the evidence very carefully, I am not satisfied that Vertu 
misrepresented the finance contract. I say this because the contract only stipulated that the 
car be serviced in line with the manufacturers recommendations  it did not set out the 
servicing schedule (and indeed the servicing requirements might conceivably change over 
the life of an agreement if the driver were to change their pattern of use). So I can see no 
evidence of a false statement of fact in relation to the finance agreement.
Even if I were to consider that the agreement was misrepresented in relation to the service 
schedule, I am not persuaded that that, in itself, induced Mr P to enter into it. I note that, in 
Mr Ps original complaint to Vertu, he said the main factor in deciding on the Audi was the 
absence of driver-aid technology, which he didnt ideally want, but which came as standard 
on the other make and models of car that he had been considering (and one of the 
alternatives had also been subject to production delays). Additionally, the saving on service 
costs that he was expecting to make was quite small, relative to the overall cost of the 
contract, and wouldnt have offset the difference in costs between this contract and the 
alternative that he said he would otherwise have chosen. So I dont think the servicing costs 
were the deciding factor. So on balance I consider it most likely that Mr P would have gone 
ahead with the Audi even if he had been fully informed about the servicing schedule.
I appreciate that Mr P feels very strongly about this, but in summary, I currently consider that 
Vertus offer of £475 in refund of the additional service costs is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, as it puts Mr P in the position he expected to be in when he acquired the car. 
So I dont propose to ask Vertu to do anything more.
As I noted above, Mr P raised a number of points in response to my provisional decision. I 
have summarised his comments below, but as with the other evidence provided by Mr P and 
Vertu, I have read and considered all of the points he made. 
Firstly, Mr P said that, under the Misrepresentation Act 1967, redress would usually put the 
consumer back in the position they were in before any misrepresentation occurred. As such, 
he sought to have the agreement nullified with the return of £13,209.76 plus statutory 
interest, but in response to Vertus additional goodwill offer, he had offered to settle the 
matter for £2,174.16 before referring the complaint to this service. As Vertu rejected that 
proposal, he wanted the agreement to be nullified. 
Secondly, Mr P felt that I had not fully reflected his grounds for complaint in my provisional 
decision, and that his complaint was one of misrepresentation and was three-fold:
During pre-contract enquiries, he was advised that the car would require servicing 
every 18,000 miles or two years, whichever came first. However, the actual service 
interval was around half of that, and that claim amounted to a false statement of fact. 
He believes this claim amounts to misrepresentation; both of the finance agreement 
and of the vehicle supplied by Vertu under that agreement.
Separately, the car supplied was not as described by the manufacturer, which, at that 
time (although now substantially amended), also claimed a service interval of up to 
18,000 miles or two-years, whichever came first.
No discussion took place about which servicing regime would be the most 
appropriate for Mr Ps needs. As such, an opportunity was missed to identify or 
correct the misinformation that he had previously been given.Mr P believes the three aspects of his complaint, taken together, amount to significant 
negligent misrepresentation under the Misrepresentation Act 1967. He said the false 
statements of fact given in relation to servicing and maintenance requirements influenced his 
decision to acquire the Audi, and were the main factor in his decision to acquire that car on 
three-year, as opposed to two-year, finance terms.
Mr P also argued that my provisional decision didnt reflect the body of evidence to support 
his complaint that Vertu misrepresented both the finance contract and the car. He said that 
our investigator, in her view, had said that Mr P had provided a wealth of evidence that 
demonstrates his position that the service requirements of the car werent clear to him at the 
point of sale. While the written contract stipulates only that the car was required to be 
serviced in-line with the manufacturers recommendations, Mr P said he was complaining 
that Vertu misrepresented those manufacturers recommendations during pre-contract 
conversations and negotiations and subsequently failed to qualify his servicing needs when 
supplying the car, would have afforded Vertu the opportunity to address or correct the 
misleading information given. 
Mr P further asked that particular consideration be given to the following:
Throughout, he had consistently explained how the information about the servicing 
requirements came from, and was repeated by, multiple sources at various times 
before and after he had entered into the agreement. 
In Mr Ps earlier complaint about the finance provider, another ombudsman at this 
service said that she thought it was more likely than not that it was the supplying 
dealership that had both provided information, and dealt with his enquiries about, the 
cars performance, maintenance and service requirements, and also said that although 
she was satisfied that the finance provider didnt misrepresent anything to Mr P 
regarding the car, that didnt extinguish any rights he may have against the dealership 
as provided for by the Misrepresentation Act 1967. Mr P thought there was a 
difference of opinion in respect of the assessment of the evidence made by the other 
ombudsman.
Mr P said he made twenty-eight mystery shopper type calls to a range of Audi 
dealerships, which revealed failures in understanding and/or communicating the 
service regimes applied to Audi cars, consistent with his experience with Vertu. Mr P 
offered to provide recordings of these calls. 
Mr P said he had had referred his concerns to the Financial Conduct Authority, which 
said that whilst servicing regimes applied to vehicles is outside of its remit, it did have 
jurisdiction over financing agreements offered on PCP and PCH arrangements and 
noted that We expect firms to communicate information in a way which is clear, fair 
and not misleading (PRIN 7) and adhere to CONC 4.2, Pre-contract disclosure and 
adequate explanations. He said the FCA reply recognised that clarity provided in 
respect of servicing options could ultimately influence a consumers choice of credit. 
Mr P considers that failures by Vertu that he is complaining about would be covered by 
the above provisions.
Mr P thought that this service may be concerned about the wider implications in 
relation to the manufacturer should his complaint be upheld. He noted that the 
manufacturer had made a number of changes with regard to the communication of 
servicing information through its dealership network following his complaint to it. 
He considers that the servicing arrangements as described by Vertu mean that the car 
was not as described by the manufacturer or Vertu.Mr P also said that his circumstances and pattern of use did not change, and the suggestion 
it might have has not been raised previously by either Vertu or the finance provider in 
response to his complaints. And he made his decisions based on his circumstances at the 
time.
With regard to my comments in my provisional decision on the factors affecting his choice of 
car, Mr P seems to agree that based on the information that was available at the time, the 
main factor in his decision to opt for the Audi was the absence of driver-aid technology. But 
he said that the information available at the time about the Audi, notably about its servicing 
requirements and maintenance costs, proved to be substantially wrong and misrepresented, 
and his decision was a marginal one. For that reason he feels strongly about being misled in 
respect of the cars servicing and maintenance requirements, and not being given the 
opportunity to make a fully informed decision.
Mr P has reiterated that the misinformation about servicing and maintenance requirements 
not only influenced his choice of car, but more so induced him into structuring the financial 
terms (deposit and contract duration) of the agreement to acquire the Audi. And he said that 
as a result of COVID-19 and supply chain issues, throughout 2021 and 2022 the availability 
of new cars was severely affected, delivery lead-times surged, prices increased, and lease 
deals became more scarce. So he was in a much worse position having taken a three-year 
deal rather than his usual two-year deal. He also feels he took on additional financial risk in 
order to acquire the Audi, with the apparently extended service interval the main factor in 
arriving at the decision to take on that risk. Mr P sent in copies of previous agreements to 
confirm his usual choice of two-year contracts.
Although Mr P accepted that the cost savings on servicing and maintenance that he 
expected to make were modest, relative to the overall cost of the contract, he said that he 
assessed that the saving was proportionately larger when compared to the deposit outlay. 
So he increased his initial payment to achieve a comparable, but still higher, monthly lease 
payment for the Audi than was the case for the other cars under consideration. 
Having considered all of the points raised by Mr P, I firstly need to make clear that I am only 
looking at Vertus actions in relation to the supply of the car. So although I note that Mr P has 
carried out a wide-ranging mystery shopping exercise, those calls do not relate to Vertu so 
do not provide evidence about what Vertu did in this particular transaction. They seem to 
indicate that the manufacturers information about servicing was not necessarily clearly 
understood, and I can see that the manufacturer has improved its information on this regard. 
I should also say that the ombudsmans comments in her decision in Mr Ps complaint about 
the finance provider were general comments about his possible rights  she was not 
considering Vertus actions or making findings on them. Likewise the FCAs comments were 
quite general. I can reassure Mr P that I am not constrained by a possibility of wider 
concerns  each decision is based on its own merits and I am only considering what 
happened in this particular case. And I have reached my decision after consideration of the 
comprehensive submissions from Mr P and the information provided by Vertu. 
The central point of this complaint is that Mr P feels that the incorrect information about the 
servicing arrangements amounted to misrepresentation of the finance agreement and the 
car, and that this influenced his decision to acquire the Audi, and was the main factor in his 
decision to acquire that car on three-year, as opposed to two-year, finance terms.
I said in my provisional decision that it is not in dispute that Mr P wasnt given full information 
about the service schedule, and he understood that the flexible service schedule applied. 
This remains the case and this is consistent with our investigators comments in her view, 
which Mr P has mentioned. But I also said that I was not satisfied that Vertu misrepresented the finance contract. This was because the contract only stipulated that the car be serviced 
in line with the manufacturers recommendations  it did not set out the servicing schedule. (I 
also said that the servicing requirements might conceivably change over the life of a contract 
 Mr P commented on this so I should say here that this was simply a general observation). 
Ive considered what Mr P has said, and I do understand how strongly he feels about it, but 
Ive seen no new information that changes my view  it remains that the servicing schedule 
was not contained in the terms and conditions of the agreement, and whist it is not in dispute 
that the servicing information wasnt clear, I can see no evidence of a false statement of fact 
in relation to the finance agreement. 
Mr P has also said in his response to my provisional decision that the shortcomings in the 
information about servicing mean that the car was not as described. This is not a matter that 
I can consider against Vertu, so I make no findings about it, although as a general point its 
not clear how a servicing schedule affects the specification of the car. And Mr P has not 
noted any issues with the car itself. 
I went on to say in my provisional decision that even if I were to consider that the agreement 
was misrepresented in relation to the service schedule, I am not persuaded that that, in 
itself, induced Mr P to enter into it. And I referred to Mr Ps comments in his complaint to 
Vertu about the absence of driver aid technology, which was his preference, and production 
delays on other models. Mr P has made further submissions on this point, saying that his 
decision on which car and which finance arrangements to opt for were influenced by the 
information on the servicing arrangements. I also note Mr Ps comments about the expected 
cost saving on servicing arrangements, relative to the deposit rather than the overall 
contract. However I remain of the view that the savings were relatively small. And as I have 
explained in my provisional decision and in my further comments above, I do not consider 
that the finance agreement was misrepresented, so this does not change my overall 
conclusion.
I note Mr Ps comments about the effects of COVID-19 and supply chain issues on later 
contracts, which he said he would have avoided had the contract in question been over two 
years. However, as Mr P accepts, this could not have been foreseen in 2019 when he made 
his decision. 
Ive thought carefully about everything that Mr P has said. But in summary, whilst its not in 
dispute that Vertu didnt give Mr P full information about the servicing arrangements, for the 
reasons set out above I dont consider that this amounted to misrepresentation of the finance 
agreement. Vertu has offered £475 in refund of the additional service costs, which puts Mr P 
in the position he expected to be in when he acquired the car. I consider this fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, so I will not be asking Vertu to do anything more. So I do 
not uphold Mr Ps complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman