DRN-3197751
The complaint
Mr M complains about how AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AAUICL) have
settled a claim made against his car insurance policy.
  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on Mr Ms complaint on 18 November 2021. I wanted to give 
both parties the chance to provide me with any further information before coming to my final 
decision. 
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr Ms car was involved in an incident for which he accepted liability. He
says he scraped the third-partys (TP) car while he attempted to drive into a parking space.
Mr M says the damage to the TPs car was minimal. And so, he offered to pay for the
damage privately, without the need to go through insurance.
Mr M and the TP swapped details, and the TP provided Mr M with an estimate of the costs
for repairs that was obtained at a garage. The total estimated cost of repairs was £480.
Mr M says that the TP accepted £480 to pay for the repairs, and Mr M transferred this to the
TP bank account in two separate payments.
Then on 10 March 2020, Mr M received a letter from AAUICL letting him know that it had
received information that his car had been involved in an incident and for Mr M to get in
touch as soon as possible.
Mr M says he provided AAUICL with all information relating to the payment he made to the
TP, and he provided copies of text messages too.
But later, Mr M found out that AAUICL had settled the claim for the total loss of the TP car
and paid for three weeks worth of car hire costs that the TP had claimed for. Mr M believes
the claim made against his policy has been exaggerated given the minor damage that he
says was caused to the TP car.
Mr M says that he has lost out on the £480 he gave to the third-party to settle things, and he
has lost out because his car insurance premiums have increased, and he has had a
reduction in his no claims discount.
AAUICL responded to the complaint, it agreed that its claims handling had been poor
because it didnt respond to an email Mr M sent it, and so it offered him £30 to say sorry for
this. But it didnt think it had done anything wrong when it settled the claim made against the
policy.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M, and they upheld the complaint. While they
agreed that AAUICL had been presented with a claim, and they can take over a claim and
settle it, they didnt think AAUICL had acted fairly when it didnt promptly let the TP claims
management company (CMC) know that Mr M had already made a payment to the TP to
settle things privately. And so, they thought AA should reimburse Mr M with the £480 he paid
the TP.
AAUICL didnt agree. It said it had fairly settled the claim and stated that it wouldnt
guarantee that it could recover the £480 from the TP. And it shouldnt be held responsible for
the dishonestly of the TP. It also said that the investigators view goes against the principles
of insurance.
Because AAUICL didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on
the matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, it is my current decision to uphold this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information
provided by both parties, in reaching my provisional decision. If Ive not reflected something
thats been said its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
In line with most insurers, the policy says that AAUICL can take over the settlement of the
claim. So, it can decide whether to defend a claim or settle it. AAUICL was presented with a
claim made by the TP, and so it needed to deal with this appropriately. Mr M has been
consistent throughout and admitted fault for the incident, and AAUICL has settled the claim
on that basis. So, I dont currently think it has done anything wrong here.
But AAUICL also needed to ensure that it treated Mr M fairly and reasonably during the
process, and I dont think it has. Mr M let AAUICL know on 12 March 2020 that he had paid
the TP £480 privately in order to settle the claim without the need to involve the insurer.
But AAUICL didnt act on this information. And instead decided to settle the claim in full, on
19 March 2020, without notifying the TP of the information it had received from Mr M about
the private settlement or make any attempts to reduce the settlement claim for the total loss
based on this information.
The TP CMC has sent information to Mr M to say that it would have reduced the claim
amount by the £480 if AAUICL had made it aware of the private settlement. Whether it would
have actually done this or not, I cant be certain. But AAUICL have failed to present the TP
CMC with this information, which has in turn meant that the opportunity for the claim amount
to be reduced and to reimburse Mr M what he had lost out on had been missed.
It wasnt until after the claim had been settled that AAUICL attempted to recover the £480
from the TP. It was at this point it asked Mr M for evidence of the private settlement. And Mr
M provided AAUICL with evidence of the estimate of repairs from the garage, copies of text 
messages sent between the parties and a copy of his bank statement to show the payment
had been made to settle things.AAUICL say that the fact it hasnt been able to recover the £480 isnt its fault  it would be
unlikely that the TP would return the money. And I agree with this. But my point here is that
more should have been done before a payment was made to settle the claim in full to
negotiate recovery of what Mr M had already paid. AAUICL had the opportunity to deduct the
amount from the settlement paid and reimburse this to Mr M. But it didnt do this. It didnt
even attempt to do this until it was too late.
So, I currently think Mr M has lost out on £480 because of what AAUICL has done wrong,
and I think AAUICL needs to put things right for Mr M in this respect.
I appreciate that Mr M has also said he had lost out through increased premiums and the
reduction in his no claims discount, but I dont think I can say AAUICL did anything wrong
here. Afterall, there was an incident that Mr M has admitted liability for. AAUICL has dealt
with the claim under the contract of insurance and paid a settlement to the TP. When a claim
is made against a policy, it is normal for premiums to increase because of the increase in
risk, and the terms and conditions of the cover say that the NCD would reduce in the event
of a successful claim. So, I dont think AAUICL have acted unfairly here. While I appreciate
its disappointing for Mr M, that the TP chose to claim on his policy regardless of the private
agreement they had, this isnt something I can hold AAUICL responsible for.
In relation to Mr Ms comments about the over exaggerated claim, Ive seen an engineers
report and photos of the TP car. The damage to the car is consistent with Mr Ms testimony
about what happened. The engineer who inspected the car thought that the cost of the
repairs would be more than the market value of the car, and so deemed it a total loss. I
havent seen any information to contradict this, so I think AAUICL acted reasonably when
taking this information on face value.
I have also seen that AAUICL disputed the car hire costs, so I can see that it reduced the
amount it paid out on the claim in respect of this. This is what I would have expected it to do.
So again, I dont think AAUICL has done anything wrong here.
AAUICL responded to my provisional decision to say it didnt agree, and made the below 
main points:
The recommendation that it pays £480 is unfair and goes against the principles of 
insurance.
Under the contract of insurance, Mr M was required to notify it of a claim as soon as 
reasonably possible, and to provide full details. He did not do this until AAUICL 
approached him about the claim.
There was and is no chance of the recovery of the £480 paid by Mr M. The amount 
paid by Mr M to settle the claim privately is an uninsured loss. AAUICL has asked 
who they were meant to recover that cost from.
AAUICL has said that it could have reduced the settlement of the third-party costs 
by £480 but Mr M would never have received that money. It has said that its 
settlement would have just been £480 less, and Mr M would still have remained out 
of pocket.
Mr M responded to say that he didnt have anything else to add.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I have again considered all the available evidence when deciding on a fair an reasonable 
outcome to this complaint. Having done so, it is still my decision to uphold this complaint. 
I accept that Mr M should have let AAUICL know as soon as the incident had happened  
irrespective of whether he had settled this privately or not  this is detailed in the contract of 
insurance. However, I dont think this would have made much difference to the outcome of 
the situation. Because AAUCIL were still aware of the private settlement paid by Mr M prior 
to it paying the full settlement to the TP. So, I dont think an earlier notification of what had 
happened would have changed things here. 
AAUCIL have stated that there was no chance of recovery of the £480. But I dont agree. 
This amount could have been recovered had it acted on the information provided to it about 
the private settlement prior to settling the claim in full. This could have been recovered by 
settling the claim with the TP at a lesser amount. There was also the opportunity for AAUCIL 
to defend the claim on the basis that it had already been settled privately.
AAUCIL say that Mr Ms loss isnt an insured peril. While this might be the case, Mr M has 
lost out because AAUICL didnt do enough to fairly settle things with the third party. The TP 
CMC has stated they would have reduced the amount of the claim by £480 had it been 
aware of the private settlement. It wasnt aware of the private settlement because AAUCIL 
didnt tell it about this, until a payment to settle the claim had already been made. So I think 
that AAUCILs actions here have meant that Mr M has lost out on the chance of being able 
to recover this amount. And so I think it needs to compensate him for this. 
AAUCIL say that it could have reduced the settlement amount by £480, but this would only 
have reduced the settlement it paid, and Mr M would still have been out of pocket. This 
contradicts its previous argument that it wouldnt be able to recover the £480. If it had 
reduced the settlement amount, this would have reduced the amount it paid for the total loss 
of the TP car, and it could have chosen to reimburse Mr M for the amount he paid himself for 
the repairs. 
In any event, I dont think its fair to say that if it had of reduced the settlement amount then 
this wouldnt have impacted Mr M anyway. It would have been up to AAUCIL if it paid the 
what it made out the of reduced settlement amount back to Mr M.
  
Putting things right
AAUCIL needs to pay Mr M £480, for the reasons Ive already explained above.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. I order AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited to put things right for Mr M by doing what Ive said above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman