DRN-1778356
The complaint
Ms Rs unhappy with British Gas Insurance Limiteds actions when she called to claim on her 
home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2019 Ms Rs electric started tripping, so she called British Gas to ask them to 
come out and repair the problem under her HomeCare policy. Ms R says they sent an 
engineer who disconnected wires in her kitchen leaving them hanging off the wall  and left 
her plug sockets and tiles loose. Ms R says shes also had lots of problems with 
appointments with British Gas saying theres nothing wrong, missing those appointments, 
her being insulted and work not being completed. She was also unhappy with a quote British 
Gas gave for carrying out repair works they said werent covered under the policy.
Ms R feels because of all these issues shes been discriminated against because of her race 
and gender, so she complained to British Gas  asking them to refund her premiums.
British Gas looked into her concerns. They said that while engineers had made previous 
repairs to her property, due to the standard of wiring repairs couldnt be made this time 
without rewiring all the electrics in the property. They said the issues with the wiring had 
been discussed since 2012, that they had been to Ms Rs property 14 times for wiring 
issues, but the terms and conditions of the policy dont include upgrading or improving 
existing electrical installation. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything further here. 
They did accept theyd caused some distress as a result of not coming to appointments on 
two occasions  and gave £30 for this. And in relation to the customer service they said their 
staff had done their best to explain things in a difficult situation.
Unhappy with this Ms R asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so, but in 
short felt British Gas didnt have to carry out repairs, thought the £30 was fair, and felt theyd 
given Ms R an appropriate level of customer service. Because he felt British Gas had 
handled things fairly, he also felt she hadnt been discriminated against.
Ms R didnt accept this saying that she thought she might have been discriminated against. 
And she felt the policy terms werent clear  and doesnt understand how if the wiring was 
unsafe why theyve been carrying out repairs all these years. She also said a whole re-wiring 
wasnt needed, only replacement of some parts, so thinks British Gas should have done that. 
Our investigator didnt agree with that, and because of that, the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to decide whether British Gas have acted correctly in relation to the repairs I need to 
consider the terms and conditions of the policy Ms R took out.
These say Ms Rs policy doesnt include any improvements or upgrades to the policy. Ms R 
though doesnt think this is clear, so Ive considered whether she was made aware of this.
In the policy documents British Gas have provided this says improvements arent covered 
under the relevant sections. This is also included in Ms Rs renewal documents shes been 
sent. This isnt an unusual term in insurance, as the general idea for insurance isnt to 
improve the position someone was in before  meaning I think Ms R would find this in most 
policies of this type. So overall, Im satisfied British Gas did enough to make Ms R aware of 
this term.
Ms Rs key concern is that the repairs should have been done, given the previous times 
repairs have been carried out, but werent. So, Ive looked at all the evidence provided to me 
to determine whether I think British Gas have acted fairly.
British Gas have explained theyve gone to Ms Rs property 14 times between June 2012 
and January 2020 to carry out electrical repairs. And their engineers say that they couldnt 
carry out repairs this time because of the existing issues with the wiring meant it wouldnt 
have been safe to do so. Theyve explained in detail why  including that in order for the 
wiring to be safe, a full re-wire would be needed for parts of the property which would include 
replacing parts 15-20 years past their use by date. Im not a technical expert, so its 
appropriate for me to consider the evidence put in front of me. 
Ive noted Ms Rs concerns that theyve carried out repairs previously, so they should have 
carried out repairs this time as well. But British Gas explanation has been clear and 
consistent in why they felt repairs werent appropriate this time. And in explaining re-wiring 
and replacement parts are needed, Im satisfied this meets a reasonable definition of 
improvements. 
So, taking everything into account, Im satisfied Ms R was made aware improvements 
wouldnt be covered under the policy, and that British Gas have acted fairly in not carrying 
out that work under the terms of the policy.
Ms R received a quote from British Gas for the work they said was needed for a significantly 
higher amount than shes managed to find elsewhere. Shes also spoken about missed 
appointments and had some conversations on the phone with British Gas agents where she 
may not have felt listened to. In addition, in turning down this claim despite knowing what 
kind of wiring Ms R have, she asks what shes been paying for all this time, but that point 
isnt really addressed. If you put those issues all together I understand why Ms R may feel 
like shes been treated unfairly  and may have been discriminated against because of her 
race and gender.
It really cant be a pleasant feeling to have when you feel discriminated against, and Im 
genuinely sorry for how this claims process has made Ms R feel. Ive looked closely at each 
of the issues I think have made her feel this way to explain what I think.
Ms R provided a quote for the full amount of work which was significantly cheaper than 
British Gas recommended. I can see why Ms R wouldnt feel this is fair given the 
discrepancy in prices quoted  but its not my role to determine how much British Gas may 
charge for work. And Ive not seen anything to suggest the price Ms R was quoted was 
higher because it was her claiming  I think it likely British Gas would have given a similar 
quote to others in similar circumstances.
Ms R has also said she was able to get a third party in to do work British Gas said needed to 
be done  at a significantly cheaper cost. Shes provided a receipt for this work, and I can 
see what shes saying as the work quoted for is significantly cheaper. But, although I take 
Ms Rs point on board, this receipt doesnt show me that the work British Gas recommended was actually carried out. It seems this was only a small portion of what British Gas had 
quoted for so I cant say this means British Gas did something wrong here.
Ive listened to the calls Ms R had with British Gas agents. Its clear Ms R was feeling upset 
in these calls, and I think this was because of her feeling that she was being treated 
differently. I think its fair to say if British Gas had realised why Ms R was feeling upset, they 
may have been able to help her more. I do think they tried to support her, but in not 
understanding why she was upset sadly they werent able to do so. I havent seen anything 
though to suggest this was deliberate on British Gass part.
In relation to the missed appointments British Gas have said there were two missed 
appointments  although one of those appointments were moved to later on in the day rather 
than being missed entirely. I dont doubt how frustrating that was for Ms R, but these things 
can and do happen unfortunately  so overall I think the £30 British Gas have offered for this 
is fair. British Gas have confirmed this offer is still open to Ms R, so she should contact them 
directly if shed like to accept it.
And I note Ms Rs concern about her claim not being covered this time and asking what 
shes been paying for all this time then. I think it is fair to say given how often British Gas had 
visited her property they should have had some awareness of her specific circumstances. 
But, at the same time, as Ive said above, I think British Gas acted fairly in turning down this 
claim. I also dont think they could have said in advance what the outcome of any claim 
would be until they attended Ms Rs property  as they had attended a number of times and 
were able to make repairs previously. The policy also provides other cover Ms R could 
potentially have benefitted from. So, I dont think itd be appropriate for me to tell British Gas 
to refund any of her premiums.
Having considered everything I hope I can provide some reassurance to Ms R that, although 
I think British Gas could have done better at times, I dont think they provided her with a poor 
level of service because of her race or gender.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think British Gas need to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman