DRN-3140791
The complaint
Mrs T is complaining on behalf of a company, T, that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
(trading as Cashplus) wont refund transactions she didnt authorise. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill recap the key points and focus on giving the reasons for my decision: 
On 2 March 2021, Mrs T received a call from someone claiming to be Cashplus. She 
told our service that they asked if shed made some transactions. When she said no, 
they said that someone was trying to hack her account, and they would block it and 
send her a new card. 
To do that, they asked for several codes that they had sent by text. When they asked 
for further codes, Mrs T explained that she questioned the caller and was reassured 
by the information they knew about her.
Having logged on to her online banking, Mrs T asked her husband to call Cashplus to 
check the call was genuine. She found out it was a scam and three transactions had 
been made using her card totalling £4,554.48. 
Cashplus didnt refund these, as they believed Mrs T was grossly negligent when she shared 
her one-time-passcodes. Following our services involvement, they offered to refund the first 
transaction for £2,523.77. But they didnt agree to refund the remaining transactions 
because Mrs T had doubts about the call but didnt take further action.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017, T is not liable for payments that 
Mrs T, as the sole director, didnt authorise. Thats unless she failed with gross 
negligence or intent to comply with the terms of the account or keep her personalised 
security details safe.
Its agreed Mrs T didnt authorise the transactions, because she didnt complete the 
agreed steps to make the payments. Instead it seems the fraudster made the card 
payments using information they convinced Mrs T to share by falsely saying that her 
account had been hacked. 
I dont think Mrs T failed with intent to keep her details safe  she genuinely believed 
what she was doing was to protect her account. 
Im also not satisfied Mrs T failed with gross negligence. She explained that the call 
from her bank didnt seem unusual  shed spent more than usual recently. They also 
took her through some security questions. So, I can see how this sounded familiar to 
Mrs T, and she trusted it was her bank.  
To make the transactions, the fraudster needed Ts card details. Mrs T didnt recall 
sharing these on the call. We know there are lots of different ways fraudsters harvest 
someones card details  for example, using phishing websites, installing malware or 
from data breaches. It follows that I think its likely the fraudster already had Ts card 
details before, and they called to get the one-time-passcodes necessary to make 
payments. 
Mrs T said she was told that to stop the fraudulent transactions, she had to provide 
the codes from the messages she was sent. Ive noted Cashpluss call notes refer to 
the codes being necessary to get a refund. But, given the lack of detail around this, 
and that Mrs T has consistently provided detailed testimony to our service, Ive relied 
on what she told us. I note that Cashplus hasnt rebutted this. Indeed, I think its likely 
that both could be true, given Mrs T recalled to us that she was told sharing a final 
code would restore her account to its original balance.  
Ive considered what the messages said: ****** is your code to verify the payment 
**** GBP at CRO with card ending ****.
Mrs T said she shared the first two codes after reading them in preview on her 
phone. Ive considered how the code appeared first and wasnt accompanied by a 
warning, despite Cashpluss suggestion otherwise. And how Mrs T trusted she was 
speaking with her bank, who had primed her to expect a code to stop the worrying 
prospect of her business losing money to fraud. In these circumstances, I can see 
how Mrs T shared them  I think lots of people wouldve done the same thing.
Mrs T explained that when they asked for a third code, she opened the message. 
She said she questioned the caller as well as trying unsuccessfully to log on to her 
online banking. Cashplus have highlighted how Mrs T ultimately proceeded despite 
having these doubts. 
Establishing gross negligence requires me to consider all the circumstances of what 
happened. So a finding cant be made that Mrs T seriously disregarded an obvious 
risk without asking why she proceeded given her doubts. 
Mrs T explained the fraudster was able to tell her personal information that she 
thought only her genuine bank would know. For example, she said they knew where 
the card was registered to, the balance of the account and answers to her security 
questions. Its not clear how the fraudsters would have known this. But given the 
likelihood they had Ts card details before the call, I think its plausible they had other 
information too. For example, our experience of other scams shows how fraudsters 
use card details to access credit reports  giving them a host of information to 
convince their victims they are genuine. 
I can also see how it sounded plausible that the code was to stop the payment 
referred to in the message. Thats bearing in mind that most people wont have come 
across this situation before to know how a genuine bank deals with suspicious 
transactions. 
Ive also reflected on the length of the scam. The messages with the one-time-
passcodes are around 15 minutes apart. So its clear Mrs T was acting in the heat of 
the moment without the benefit of hindsight. Given other similar scams we come across, I think its likely she wouldve been under pressure to act  with the risk 
highlighted that her business would lose out if she didnt. 
Taking this all into account, I dont think Mrs T blindly went ahead. Instead, Im 
persuaded she was reassured that she was speaking with her genuine bank who 
was helping her to stop a fraudulent transaction. 
So, in all, I dont think Mrs Ts actions fell so far below what a reasonable person 
wouldve done that it amounts to gross negligence. So I conclude that T isnt liable for 
the transactions and Cashplus need to put things right. 
Cashplus shouldve refunded these transactions much sooner. To reflect the time T 
has been out of pocket, Ive also awarded 8% simple interest per year. Ive not been 
persuaded T suffered any non-financial losses from the delayed refund. So I make no 
further award. 
    
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Ts complaint and I order Advanced Payment 
Solutions Limited to:
Pay T the total of the unauthorised transactions, less any amount already returned. 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022. 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman