DRN-4367779
The complaint
Mr M has complained about his property insurer HDI Global Speciality SE regarding a flood 
claim he made. The cellar of his home and contents stored within it were affected.
What happened
Mr M found water in his cellar in late November/early December 2022. He made a claim, 
HDI appointed a loss adjuster and began investigations. However, Mr M wasnt happy with 
how the claim was progressing and complained. In a final response letter of 30 March 2023 
HDI, looking at activity occurring until 19 January 2023, accepted there had been a small 
period of delay. For which it apologised. Mr M complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Our Investigator, in that respect, felt the apology was sufficient redress. The 
complaint closed.
However, Mr M had remained unhappy about HDIs handling of the claim during 2023. 
Following our Investigators view, Mr M made a further complaint. He said hed reached a 
point of sheer frustration and disappointment. He said he felt there was negligence and 
general disregard for his familys wellbeing. He said there was a complete lack of effective 
communication which was exacerbating anxiety and distress.
In a final response dated 8 June 2023 HDI said it accepted there had been many delays 
caused by it throughout the claim. It apologised and offered £200 compensation. 
Mr M said that as the flood claim remained unresolved, payment of £200 wasnt sufficient 
redress. He asked for a higher sum to truly reflect the sheer unprofessionalism of the loss 
adjuster with all the distress and inconvenience that had caused. HDI responded advising 
Mr M that the claim had been declined. It said that, on that basis, it couldnt increase the 
compensation award. HDI said the claim was declined due to the water ingress not having 
resulted from an insured peril. It said Mr M was free to complain if he wished.
Our Investigator reviewed what had happened since 19 January 2023. He felt HDI should be 
accepting the claim as there seemed to have been a flood. He said it should pay £400 
compensation for the upset caused. 
Mr M accepted the findings. HDI said there hadnt been consistent rainfall before the loss. It 
added that given the age of the property, it wouldnt have been built with damp proofing so 
its likely always been subject to damp, which is supported by photos.
The complaint was referred for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our Investigator that its time for HDI to accept this claim. It 
initially considered it as one of accidental damage to underground pipes. Even though it 
knew a body of water, about one foot deep had been found in the cellar. I accept that in 
order to think about repairs, it needed to consider if there was a drain issue. But that 
shouldnt have precluded it from dealing with the potential for a claim under the cover for 
flood instead.
Mr M provided a report which confirmed thered been a sudden build up of water in the 
cellar. There were photos. I think that was sufficient, on the face of it, to show hed likely 
suffered an event, a flood, covered by the policy. So it was then up to HDI to show why that 
reasonably was not the case. 
I appreciate that HDI did review weather records and found signs of damp in the cellar. But 
even if the rainfall was limited (and its loss adjuster seems to dispute that) and there were 
signs of pre-existing damp, that doesnt mean its unlikely water built up suddenly in the 
cellar. I bear in mind the cellar was clearly used for storing lots of personal items and some 
furniture too. There were items with wooden legs, as well as storage boxes, all in contact 
with the floor. Ive not seen any assessment of these items which might suggest they were 
suffering from long-term exposure to water. If HDI had wanted to support an argument of a 
gradual build up of water which, therefore, might fall outside the specific policy definition it 
has applied for flood, that is something it could have looked to do. Based on the evidence 
HDI has provided Im not persuaded it has shown its most likely that a flood did not occur at 
Mr Ms home. 
HDI has not been able to show its most likely that a flood, as covered by the policy, did not 
occur. So its only reasonable that it moves to settle Mr Ms claim in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy. It should treat him as a priority. If hes incurred costs in 
supporting his claim or due to it not having been settled, HDI will have to consider those and 
reimburse Mr M, plus interest*. 
I know the period between 19 January 2023 and the point in June 2023 when HDI declined 
the claim was difficult for Mr M. I completely understand he was anxious and worried about 
what was happening. He was also living in a property with a moisture affected cellar which 
had started to suffer mould and was smelly. I think HDI should pay Mr M £400 compensation 
for the upset its caused. I know it offered £200 in June 2023. If this has been paid already it 
will now only have to pay the difference remaining of £200. 
Putting things right
I require HDI to:
Settle Mr Ms claims for buildings and contents damaged by flood, in line with the policys 
remaining terms and conditions. Treating this as a priority.
Reimburse Mr M any costs he incurred in supporting his claim or due to it not having 
been settled. Where proof of payment is provided, plus interest* from the date of 
payment until settlement is made.
Pay Mr M £400 compensation, but if £200 has been paid already, only the difference 
outstanding will have to be paid.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require HDI to take off tax from this interest. 
If asked, it must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require HDI Global Specialty SE to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman