DRN-1696270
The complaint
Ms S has complained that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a packaged
bank account, called an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA).
Ms S paid a monthly fee for the account and received several potential benefits in return.
She thinks that Halifax should refund her all the fees she paid, plus interest.
What happened
I understand that Ms S has been a customer of Halifax for quite a long time. Halifax has 
looked into its records for her and has told us that she first opened one of its fee-free 
accounts during 2002. Halifax then sold her the URCA in August 2010, and she switched 
back to a fee-free account in 2019.
I believe that Halifaxs records about Ms Ss account history are probably reliable, and I have 
taken them to be correct.
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Ms Ss complaint and didnt think that 
Halifax had mis-sold the URCA to her. Ms S didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and 
asked for an ombudsman to review her case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do in Ms Ss case. Ive looked into
everything that Ms S and Halifax have told us or sent us about the complaint and
Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
As Halifax sold the URCA to Ms S around ten years ago, neither side has been able to send 
us any detailed records from the time. So, I cant be sure what happened. Instead, Ive used 
the evidence which is available to decide what is most likely to have occurred.
In 2010, Halifax, along with other banks was allowed to sell PBAs in two ways. It could do so 
without giving personal advice on an information-only (or non-advised) basis; or as an 
advised (or recommended) sale. In both situations, as well as giving Ms S a choice, I would 
have expected Halifax to tell her about the URCAs costs and benefits clearly and fairly; and 
in an advised sale, I would also have expected it to check if she needed the benefits which 
the account could provide. 
Ms S has told us that Halifax sold her the URCA during a meeting at one of its branches and 
advised her to buy it. Halifax has agreed that it sold the account through one of its branches 
but has said that it did so on an information-only basis without giving any advice. I accept 
that this was its usual practice in 2010 and I havent seen sufficiently convincing evidence for 
me to think it changed its procedures for Ms S. So, I have considered this case as a non-
advised sale. 
In 2010, the potential benefits of the URCA included travel insurance, use of a car 
breakdown service and insurance for mobile phones. Within certain limits, Halifax also raised 
lower charges to customers with URCAs who overdrew their accounts than it usually applied 
to customers with fee-free accounts. Depending on how customers with URCAs used their 
accounts, they could sometimes save more in overdraft charges than they paid in monthly 
fees. 
Throughout our investigation into Ms Ss complaint, she has been very clear about why she 
thinks Halifax mis-sold the URCA to her. She had been using an overdraft with her fee-free 
account and has said that during the meeting Halifax told her that she had no choice but to 
sign up (for the URCA) or (she) would lose (her) existing overdraft facility.
Halifax has told us that it wasnt withdrawing Ms Ss overdraft facility from her and I accept 
this to be the case. But the crux of Ms Ss complaint is whether Halifax told her that the only 
way she could keep an overdraft was to buy the URCA. To do so would have been 
misleading and unfair. 
Obviously, I cant tell for sure what Halifax said, or didnt say, to Ms S about her overdraft. 
But as she had held an overdraft with her fee-free account for some time, and Halifax 
continued to offer overdrafts to customers with fee-free accounts, and such arrangements 
were quite common in the UK, I doubt that it misled her in the way she has described.
I think its more likely that Halifax told Ms S about the possibly cheaper overdraft she could 
have with an URCA. It may also have told her that she couldnt have this possibly cheaper 
overdraft if she kept her fee-free account. But as this was true, it wouldnt have been 
misleading or unfair. 
As I doubt that Halifax told Ms S that she had to change accounts to keep her overdraft, and 
she obviously knew fee-free accounts were available, I think it probably also allowed her a 
choice to keep her fee-free account or to buy the URCA. 
Halifax has also sent us information from its records which shows that Ms S registered some 
mobile phones for insurance and used the car breakdown service. So, it seems to me that 
Halifax must have told her about these benefits, and that she may well have wanted them. 
And there doesnt seem to be any dispute that Halifax told Ms S about the monthly fees. 
Ms S has also told us that when she first tried to switch back from the URCA to a fee-free 
account, Halifax didnt deal with her request efficiently and delayed things. Halifax has 
accepted there were delays and has told us that it refunded Ms S all the monthly fees for the 
time in question and added interest. This seems to have been a fair response and I have not 
considered the matter any further. 
Ms S has also mentioned that she has a disability following a car accident and thinks that the 
travel insurance that came with the account wasnt sufficient for her needs and so she 
bought additional cover when she travelled. Im sorry to hear about Ms Ss accident, but as I 
dont think Halifax gave her personal advice about the URCA (and the insurance) this was 
something for her to consider for herself. 
Ms S has also mentioned that she has recently been in financial difficulties and doesnt think 
Halifax treated her fairly over the URCA. She hasnt told us a great deal about these 
difficulties and their extent. If she has new information about them and how they are 
separate from the way Halifax sold her the URCA and the refund it gave her for the delay in switching her account, then she is free to raise them with Halifax if she so wishes. However, 
I cant advise her about this or speculate on the possible outcome of any complaint.
So, in summary, although I cant tell for sure if Halifax got everything right for Ms S, I dont 
think it mis-led her about her overdraft, and I think it told her about the cost and benefits of 
the URCA. I also think it gave her a choice. 
I dont think Halifax mis-sold the URCA to Ms S. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Ms Ss complaint about Bank of
Scotland plc  trading as Halifax. I am not going to tell it to give her any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman