DRN-4442527
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt offer her an account after she applied to open 
an account.
What happened
In March 2023, Mrs M applied online to open a Monzo account. Monzo reviewed the 
application and decided it couldnt offer Mrs M an account.
Mrs M contacted Monzo and asked it to review its decision. She told Monzo that she has an 
excellent credit score, has a mortgage, is working and paying in a reasonable amount of 
money each month to her bank account. So, she said she cant understand why Monzo 
didnt want to offer her an account. Monzo reviewed Mrs M application again but said it still 
didnt want to offer Mrs M an account. 
Mrs M complained to Monzo and asked it to provide an explanation why it didnt want her as 
a customer. Monzo said it didnt have to provide her with a reason and hadnt done anything 
wrong when it declined Mrs Ms application.
Unhappy with Monzos response, Mrs M brought her complaint to our service where one of 
our investigators looked into what happened. The investigator said that based on the limited 
information that Monzo had provided, she couldnt say the bank had treated Mrs M fairly 
when it had decided not to offer her an account. So, she said that Monzo should pay Mrs M 
£100 compensation for the trouble and upset this had caused her. 
Monzo didnt respond. So, the investigator followed things up and asked it to provide more 
information about Mrs M application, its account opening processes and why it had declined 
Mrs Ms application. In response, it said that it wasnt obliged to offer Mrs M an account, and 
that it had declined the application because Mrs M hadnt satisfied one of its control checks. 
And it sent us a list of the things Monzo checks when considering any application.
The investigator looked at the information and said Monzo still hadnt provided us with 
enough information. So, she remained of the view that Monzo hadnt treated Mrs M fairly. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Monzo 
has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential. This means I 
havent been able to share a lot of detail with Mrs M, but Id like to reassure her that I have 
considered everything.
In response to the investigators view, Monzo has said it is not obliged to offer an account to 
a customer and it has its own control processes for reviewing all account applications. 
Monzo is correct that a bank can make its own decisions about whether or not to accept 
someone as a customer. And it doesnt have to give reasons. It has explained that Mrs Ms 
account application failed to pass one of the checks it uses to assess each application. And 
it has provided a copy of the check list setting out what it considers when it receives an 
application which included amongst other things checks on addresses and identification. 
However, despite being asked by the investigator Monzo hasnt sufficiently explained why 
Mrs M failing one of the particular checks meant it wasnt able to proceed with her 
application.  
I appreciate that Monzo are entitled to set their own policies and part of that will form their 
risk criteria. It is not in my remit to say what policies or risk appetite Monzo should have in 
place. Our service doesnt have the powers to tell a business to change their processes and 
procedures. I can however, while considering the circumstances of individual complaints, 
decide whether I think customers have been treated fairly.
 
Monzo needs to provide information to this service so we can fairly decide a complaint. 
Despite being asked by the investigator, Monzo has failed to provide sufficient information 
about why the check Mrs M failed presented a risk to the bank if it had proceeded with her 
application. I also cant see that Monzo asked Mrs M any questions that may have explained 
things and alleviated any concerns that their check list highlighted. 
So, in this particular case, because of the lack of information I cant be satisfied that Monzo 
has treated Mrs M fairly when it declined her account application. Mrs M says she was very 
upset when Monzo rejected her application. And she spent time trying to find out what (if 
anything) she had done wrong. She also took the trouble to submit further information to the 
bank so that it could review her application again. So, taking this into account, I agree with 
the investigator that Monzo should pay Mrs M compensation £100 for the trouble and upset 
this matter caused her. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things 
right Monzo Bank Ltd should pay Mrs M £100 compensation for unfairly rejecting Mrs Ms 
account application.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman