DRN-3138040
The complaint
Mrs B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund four payments taken from her bank
account which she says she didnt make or otherwise authorise.
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving the reasons for my decision:
In late September 2019, Mrs B was called by someone who claimed to be from the
broadband provider, BT. They said her internet hadnt been working as well as it
could and her internet was eligible for a boost  so they offered to upgrade it for her.
When in fact, these were fraudsters looking to steal money from her account.
As part of the scheme, they asked for some of her card details to make a £99
payment for the improvement to her internet connection, which was to be sent to BT.
But in reality, five payments were attempted using Mrs Bs debit card between 10:01
and 10:15 that day.
The first of which was declined by HSBC, in light of it suspecting possible fraud on
the account. When HSBC sent a corresponding fraud alert by text message, Mrs B
was asked by the fraudsters to respond with a Y. Because of this positive response,
the other four payments were successful and money was sent to TransferWise (an
online service that can be used to send and receive payments). These totalled
£7,984. Mrs B said she didnt make these.  
Provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this case in October 2021. I have copied the findings and 
redress sections of my provisional decision below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Upon doing so, Im minded to 
agree with our investigator that the complaint should be upheld  albeit for slightly 
different reasons.
Im conscious that my fellow ombudsman and I have referenced the relevant rules, 
codes of practice and good industry practice at the time in many previous decisions, 
both to HSBC and published on our website. Therefore, it strikes me as unnecessary 
to rehearse them again here in detail.
I recognise that HSBC has disagreed with our initial assessment and has made a 
number of counter-arguments. Particularly, on the grounds of Mrs B sharing certain 
information with the fraudsters when the bank believes the circumstances did not 
warrant a plausible explanation for doing so.
Having considered the banks entire submission, Im not currently persuaded that 
such matters have a material bearing on what I see as a fair and reasonable 
outcome to the complaint. In my provisional decision, Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint  our rules allow me to do that.
In light of what Ive seen so far, Im minded to uphold this complaint for the following
reasons:
In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mrs B isnt liable 
for payments she didnt authorise, unless she failed with gross negligence or 
intent to comply with the terms of the account or keep her personalised 
security details safe.
It appears common ground that Mrs B did not authorise these four 
transactions. Rather, she was under the impression that one payment of £99 
was being sent to BT. As its not in dispute that these payments to 
TransferWise were made without her consent, I see no reason to explore this 
point any further. But for completeness, Im not persuaded Mrs B completed 
the necessary steps for these payments to be made or gave someone else 
permission to make the payments on her behalf. The payments were, 
therefore, unauthorised.
I dont think HSBC has suggested that Mrs B failed to comply with her 
obligations under the PSRs and terms of her account with intent. 
Nevertheless, for the avoidance of doubt, Im not satisfied Mrs B did fail with 
intent to keep her details safe  she genuinely believed what she was doing 
was necessary to make a payment towards a recognised broadband provider.
Im also not convinced she failed with gross negligence. The fraudster said 
they were from BT and Mrs B has openly admitted that she was with a 
different broadband provider at the time and she regrets not realising until 
afterwards. HSBC has placed considerable weight on this in regard to the 
argument of gross negligence, suggesting that revealing information to a 
company that you no longer hold an agreement with was significantly 
careless.
However, gross negligence is not an abstract concept. Whether a consumer 
has acted in such a manner is something that can only be assessed on a 
case by case basis. Accordingly, its important to take all the circumstances 
into account. Here, I have to consider that, at the time, Mrs B was 
experiencing a particularly difficult period in her life. In the space of only a 
matter of months, she had moved home following a relationship breakdown, 
endured the recent loss of both of her parents and found out that one of her 
children had been diagnosed with cancer.
Whats more, BT was Mrs Bs genuine provider for a vast amount of time 
previously (I understand Mrs B was with BT for well over ten years). 
Disguised as agents of this well-known company, the fraudsters appeared to 
legitimately hold some of her personal information, like her name along with 
details of her address. And Mrs B had only recently switched from BT to a 
new broadband provider, having moved home a relatively short time before 
February 2019.She thought she was dealing with a business she knew, trusted and had dealt 
with many times before  even if she didnt realise that BT was not the current 
provider for her new home. I accept Mrs B was made to feel worried about 
potentially missing out on an upgrade, having been convinced by the 
fraudsters that a number of her new neighbours had taken advantage of this 
particular deal. It makes sense to me why she wanted to get the best option 
available having moved in a short time ago. And given her present 
circumstances, I also cant ignore that Mrs B clearly wasnt in an optimum 
position to make rational and informed decisions  I can see why recent 
events may have distracted her. Indeed, this apparent vulnerability appears to 
have made it an opportune moment for the fraudsters to contact her.
As a matter of ordinary language and general impression, the concept of 
gross negligence is accepted as conduct capable of embracing not only 
actual appreciation of the risks involved  but also serious disregard of or 
indifference to an obvious risk. In all the circumstances of what happened, I 
dont think that Mrs B comprehended the risks involved in sharing her 
information and allowing remote access to her computer, let alone seriously 
disregarding it. I accept she couldve done more to verify the caller(s) and 
distinguished between her current broadband provider and what appeared to 
be BT sooner than she did. But I think a lot of people wouldve made this 
slight error in the state of affairs she found herself in at the material time.
Especially, upon hearing a familiar, trusted name. Overall, failing to bring to 
mind that she had an agreement in place with a different company does not 
constitute gross negligence in my opinion. Rather, I find Mrs B to have been 
negligent at worst.
I also have taken into account what difference (if any) it wouldve made had 
Mrs B realised that she was in fact with a different broadband provider before 
the payments were made. Scams such as the one experienced by Mrs B are 
very sophisticated. From her testimony, its evident that the fraudsters used a 
range of social engineering techniques to trick, deceive and manipulate her 
into following their instructions and inadvertently allowing access to 
confidential information. With this in mind, I find it probable that, under the 
guise of a household name that shed previously been acquainted with, the 
clever tactics of the fraudsters wouldve led to Mrs B being convinced that her 
previous service provider was simply calling a longstanding customer to tempt 
them back to a new agreement. After all, people do legitimately take up 
introductory offers from competing broadband providers  especially, when 
theyve been with them for so long beforehand.
Moreover, Mrs B was called a number of times during the week or so that led 
up to 26 February 2019. She says  and I accept  that the fraudsters tried to 
arrange a convenient time to speak over the course of several days, agreeing 
to reconvene the conversation when Mrs B was available. So, when they did 
call back as planned, I can see how this demonstrated a degree of 
professionalism to Mrs B. I think this reinforces the complexity of the scam 
and the resilience of the fraudsters to make their ill-gotten gains. Put simply, 
these werent chancers, but orchestrators of a well-planned operation, 
having rehearsed ways to reassure their victim and overcome obstacles. In 
this light, Im persuaded that Mrs B was likely to have continued with the
call whether she realised there was an existing relationship with BT or not.Ive gone on to consider HSBCs submission that Mrs B stepped away from 
her computer upon instruction from the fraudsters. The bank has said that this 
offered the natural opportunity to take a moment to check the contents of the 
fraud alert it sent via text message. Thus, revealing the scam. Ive thought 
about this point carefully, as the text message did describe this first payment 
as being instructed to pay TransferWise (i.e. not BT as Mrs B had thought). 
And, the amount being attempted was also included; that being £1,995, 
instead of the £99 Mrs B had consented to.
Mrs Bs recollection was that she didnt take the entirety of the message in, 
given the speed of things and the pressure she was under. HSBC said its not 
its fault that she didnt read it all. But, crucially, HSBCs responsibility rests on 
whether Miss C failed with gross negligence  and in these circumstances, 
Im not persuaded this amounts to that. Particularly, given that Miss C 
wouldve been primed to expect the message and she need only to send a 
simple response that could be put together quickly and without much thought. 
I accept that the fraudsters engineered the sequence of events so that a swift 
reply to the text seemed essential. In the heat of the moment, I can see how 
Mrs B followed their instructions and responded with a Y.
Finally, by allowing remote access to her computer, HSBC argues that Mrs B
displayed a significant degree of carelessness. But, like most people, Mrs B 
wasnt an expert in IT matters. So, naturally, she trusted the advice of who 
she believed was a dependable professional  after all, without knowledge 
herself, its difficult to question. And the fraudsters played this role 
convincingly  theyd gone to the lengths of manipulating Mrs Bs screen so 
she couldnt see what was happening.
In these circumstances, I can understand how the reality  that the fraudsters 
were making payments  wasnt in Mrs Bs mind. And I can see how Mrs B 
responded as she did to HSBCs fraud alert, believing she was agreeing to a 
small payment, not realising she was in fact facilitating much larger, multiple 
transactions. Im not persuaded that by doing so, her actions fell so far below 
what a reasonable person wouldve done that she failed with gross 
negligence. On this basis, I conclude that she isnt liable for the transactions 
and HSBC need to put things right  by refunding her losses from these 
unauthorised transactions, alongside interest to compensate Mrs B for the 
time shes been out of pocket.
HSBC ought to have refunded this much sooner  and thats meant Mrs B 
has had to endure a per longed impact at what was already a difficult time for 
her. Not being able to put this behind her, together with having to face losing 
a significant amount from her account, persuades me there has been a 
considerable impact here. To my mind, an award of £300 compensation fairly 
reflects her non-financial losses here, such as distress and inconvenience. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, Im minded to uphold this complaint and propose 
asking HSBC UK Bank plc to:
Pay Mrs B the total of the unauthorised transactions (£7,984), less any 
amount already returned.Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the 
unauthorised transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully 
deductible).
Award £300 compensation for Mrs Bs distress and inconvenience.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs B accepted my provisional decision and resubmitted information to highlight her 
agreement with my findings. For the avoidance of doubt, I had already considered this 
position in my initial review  I therefore do not need to comment on it any further.   
With the intention of settling the matter, HSBC also accepted my provisional decision on the 
grounds of paying the recommended redress as a gesture of good will. 
Now that both parties have responded, the case has been returned to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that both HSBC and Mrs B agree to my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart 
from my decision. To that end, the way in which I was minded to recommend that HSBC put 
things right remains the same.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and before, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint 
and HSBC UK Bank Plc should:
Pay Mrs B the total of the unauthorised transactions (£7,984), less any amount
already returned.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Award £300 compensation for Mrs Bs distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman