DRN-3819340
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined her claim on 
her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Miss M told us that on 25 November 2021 she took her cat to the vet for a health check. 
During the visit the vet noted the cat was missing quite a lot of teeth and diagnosed her with 
grade three dental disease. Due to the severity of the disease the cat needed to have more 
teeth removed under general anaesthetic which took place in December 2021.
Miss M was looking to claim back the costs she incurred for this treatment, but RSA declined 
the claim as they said it was a pre-existing condition  which the policy specifically excludes. 
 
Miss M referred her concerns to this service. Our investigator felt RSA had declined the 
claim in line with their terms and conditions so didnt ask them to do anything more. As 
Miss M remained unhappy its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss Ms strength of feeling in relation to this complaint. Whilst I have 
considered all the information provided by both parties, I havent commented on all of it. This 
isnt meant as a discourtesy but reflects the informal nature of our service. 
RSA have a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and they shouldnt decline a 
claim unreasonably. It also has an obligation to provide policy information in a clear, fair and 
not misleading format.
Miss M took out this policy on 9 November 2021, with an effective start date of 10 November 
2021. The terms and conditions set out the agreement between Miss M and RSA and it 
highlights what is and isnt covered. It says:
What is not covered:
For health issues, concerns, illnesses and injuries which you or your vet were aware of 
before you took out the policy, they are known as pre-existing conditions, they are:
signs or symptoms of diagnosed or undiagnosed injuries or illnesses;
existing illnesses or injuries;
existing physical abnormalities
existing illnesses, injuries or physical abnormalities which lead to other health issues 
or injuries;
illnesses or injuries which are medically linked to existing illnesses, injuries or 
physical abnormalities.
For illnesses which you or your vet were aware of in the first 14 days of your policy first 
starting or any illness that develops from them. By illness we mean:
diagnosed illness
signs or symptoms of illness (undiagnosed illness)
Having reviewed the notes provided by the vet. I can see that on the date of the visit, the vet 
detailed the reason for the visit as teeth issues and documented the following comments:
Presents for general check up as O noticed that shes missing her bottom canines. No 
other concerns.Grade 3 dental disease- already missing quite a lot of teeth
This suggests Miss M was aware of the missing teeth before the visit to the vet. Whilst 
Miss M may not have known the cause for the missing teeth, this doesnt mean RSA should 
cover the claim. I say this because the terms specifically exclude pre-existing conditions, it 
further defines this as signs or symptoms of diagnosed or undiagnosed injuries or illnesses.
Im not persuaded that its normal for a cat to have lost quite a lot of teeth.  As Miss M had 
owned the cat for a number of years, I think its likely she wouldve been aware that this was 
unusual, especially as the vet hadnt noticed any issues at the previous health check a year 
earlier.
I understand Miss Ms comment that any missing teeth wouldnt have been a concern as the 
cat couldve lost its teeth in a fight and wasnt displaying any signs to indicate anything was 
wrong. But I dont think this changes anything.
From what I understand, dental disease can cause cats to lose teeth and given her 
diagnoses of grade three dental disease and that she required further teeth to be extracted 
due to the severity of the disease, Im not persuaded that this condition wouldve developed 
to this extent within the time the policy was in force. So it follows that I dont think its unfair 
for RSA to decline the claim as pre-existing. I think its likely Miss M was aware her cat had 
lost teeth before taking her to the vet and more likely than not at the point of the policys 
inception.
Additionally, whilst dental disease can develop quickly in its initial stages, I find it unlikely to 
have got to grade three disease within two weeks. Given this I dont think RSA have declined 
the claim unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman