DRN-3450687
The complaint
Ms Z has complained about the service she received from Acromas Insurance Company 
Limited when she made a claim under her car insurance policy.
Mr V is a named driver and assisting Ms Z with her complaint. 
All reference to the insurer Acromas in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
Ms Zs car was hit by another car and so she made a claim to Acromas for the damage 
to be repaired.
Ms Z said that as well as damage to the front of the car, there was further damage which led 
to a leak in the footwell inside the car. Acromas said this damage wasnt incident related and 
so didnt include it in the repairs. 
Ms Z was unhappy with Acromas decision. She complained about this and that her car had 
been with the approved repairer (AR) for seven weeks and water had been left in the car for 
this time  and returned to them in this condition. Ms Z said she wasnt updated and believed 
the length of time the AR had her car for the repairs was too long. 
Acromas upheld the complaint in part. It agreed there had been a delay of a week in 
arranging the repairs. It said there had been a lack of communication and it had incorrectly 
advised in a call that the water leak repairs would be covered under the claim as incident 
related damage. 
Acromas said its AR and an Independent Assessor (IA) confirmed that the water leak wasnt 
incident related. And so it wouldnt have looked to put right this damage as this would make 
them liable if anything went wrong. But Acromas said interim work was carried out to prevent 
any new water from entering the car. And as a goodwill gesture, Acromas paid £75 toward 
the costs to get the car valeted.
Acromas said outside of the delay arranging repairs by one week, the time it took in 
investigating whether the water leak was incident related and dealing with the incident 
related repairs was necessary and reasonable. 
For the complaints Acromas upheld, it apologised and paid £250 compensation. 
Ms Z told us she arranged for her car to be taken to a specialist for the leak repairs to be 
carried out. As a result of the water leak, she says there was corrosion damage to the circuit 
board which meant the car key fobs had to be replaced. She wanted Acromas to pay for the 
costs for these repairs as she said the leak wasnt there before the incident. 
Our Investigator thought Acromas had done enough to put things right. She said there 
wasnt sufficient evidence to show that the delay caused by Acromas caused the further 
damage  as opposed to it being caused once the leak occurred. The Investigator was 
satisfied Acromas had properly considered the water leak repair and that it wasnt incident 
related. 
Ms Z didnt agree. She says Acromas failed in their duty of care. She says they should have 
been given the opportunity to deal with the water leak as the water was sitting where the 
cars alarm unit and electric loom were housed. Ms Z says they made repeated calls to 
Acromas raising their concerns and offered to protect the car themselves. Acromas should 
have known the importance of not leaving the interior of the car wet for seven weeks and as 
a result Ms Z is out of pocket by £1,200. Ms Z says their car was returned to them in a worse 
state. She is unhappy they were not allowed access to their car during this time to take 
preventative action.
So as Ms Z didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute in relation to the complaints raised by Ms Z and Acromas has upheld 
some of them. 
I understand how strongly Ms Z feels about the way the claim was handled: in particular the 
protection of her car and her view that the delay in not being able to have the water leak 
repaired caused further damage. 
But I havent seen persuasive evidence to show this to be the case. Ms Z confirmed that a 
water leak causing damp in the same area had been repaired in January 2021. She said no 
issues had occurred since the repair until just after the incident when there was heavy rain. 
The AR said the water leak wasnt incident related  due to the area where the car had been 
impacted. An Independent Assessor reached the same conclusion. The IA found that the 
tailgate light wasnt secure and was only catching on the first catch. He found that the rubber 
adjuster wasnt in the correct position. When corrected, the tailgate then closed securely. 
The IA concluded that the tailgate had been allowing water to leak into the car. 
I understand Ms Z says there was heavy rain just after the incident and this is when the leak 
occurred, which leads her to believe it was incident related damage. But taking all of the 
information into account, Im satisfied that Acromas decision to rely on the expert opinion of 
both the AR and the IA in deciding the leak wasnt incident related was reasonable. 
Ms Z says the alarm unit was working before the car went in for repairs. But theres isnt 
evidence to show me that the water damage that had already occurred was made worse by 
the delay by Acromas. I think its explanation that Acromas couldnt carry out repairs to the 
leak as it wasnt part of the claim  and that it carried out interim repairs to prevent ongoing 
water leaking  was fair. I appreciate that Ms Z feels the outcome would have been different 
if they had been allowed to access the car and dry it out sooner. But I think what Acromas 
did to resolve the complaint is enough to put things right. For the poor service it provided it 
paid £250 compensation and £75 for the car to be valeted. And so I dont think Acromas 
needs to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Ms Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman