DRN-4066795
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the service she received from Sherpa Financial Solutions Limited
when seeking advice about an ISA arrangement. She says the services provided and 
associated charges werent adequately explained to her. 
What happened
In December 2021, Sherpa received an introduction from a member of Mrs Ws family to 
provide advice on her saving arrangements. 
In January 2022, Sherpa provided a recommendation letter relating to her ISA 
arrangements, which Mrs W accepted, and a new ISA was set up. 
In April 2022, Sherpa realised it hadnt charged Mrs W for the services it provided. It had 
intended to take its fees directly from the product but failed to do this. As a result, it sent Mrs 
W an invoice for £553 and asked her to pay this. Mrs W queried what further services would 
be provided but didnt pay the invoice at this time.  
In August 2022, Mrs W sent Sherpa a cheque for £200. She explained she had conducted 
research on the usual charge for arranging an investment of this nature. She found this to be 
less than what she had been charged. She made a deduction for time and inconvenience 
and said £200 was sufficient to settle the matter.
Sherpa didnt agree with this payment and returned the cheque. It said the fee was at a rate 
of £100 per hour for up to six hours, which Mrs W signed an agreement to. It requested the 
full payment of the invoice. 
Mrs W raised a complaint. Sherpa responded, in summary it said:
- Mrs W signed an agreement in December 2021, which detailed the fee arrangement.
- It competed five and a half hours of work on Mrs W investment arrangements  
which equates to the fee invoice of £553 that was issued. 
- It accepted some minor errors on its part that may have led to additional time being 
spent, so it agreed to reduce the fee to £500 to recognise this. 
Mrs W referred her complaint to this service as she wanted an independent review of the 
complaint.  
One of our investigators looked into Mrs W complaint. He didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary he said the fees payable were made clear to Mrs W and the advice appears to 
have been in line with her investment objectives and risk profile. So, he felt there was an 
obligation to pay the fee. 
Mrs W didnt accept the investigators assessment. She disputed whether she was given 
information about the fees. In summary she said:
- She didnt receive the client agreement and was therefore not made aware of the 
fees.
- The recommendation letter does not mention a minimum charge, nor does it provide 
an estimate of the number of hours involved.
- The recommendation letter includes a single premium of £19,400 for tax year 
2022/23 which has not been carried out.
- She hasnt been provided with the information needed to operate the account 
independently. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaints relates to the fees that Sherpa have charged Mrs W for the 
advice it provided in January 2022. Mrs Ws complaint relates to the amount of the fee. She 
hasnt raised concerns about the suitability of the product she was recommended, so I 
havent considered this as part of my decision. 
Sherpa say Mrs W is required to pay the outstanding fee for the work it completed on her 
behalf  but she disputes the amount of the fee. Mrs W hasnt said she shouldnt pay any fee 
but believes she shouldnt have to pay the amount Sherpa has asked for. So, Ive looked at 
the available evidence to establish whether Sherpa is acting in a fair and reasonable manner 
in the circumstances. 
There are several pieces of evidence that set out that information was provided about the 
fee to Mrs W. Firstly, the client agreement which was signed by Mrs W on 9 December 2021. 
This provided an overview of Sherpas charging structure and gave examples of typical 
charges. Secondly, the client fee agreement which Sherpa has provided and was signed by 
Mrs W on 21 December 2021. This gave a specific fee rate for the advice she was receiving. 
This said the fee would be up to £600 for the initial advice at an hourly rate of £100 for six 
hours. Finally the recommendation letter that Mrs W signed on 19 January 2021 confirmed 
under the section Our charges  that the The cost of the initial advice is being charged at 
£100 per hour as a special rate to reflect that you are being supported by your [family 
member] for free and [they] will continue to support you after this has been set up. So, there 
is evidence Mrs W was made aware of the fee.  
I acknowledge that Mrs W says she doesnt recall seeing the client agreement and was only 
given the last signature page. Im also conscious that Mrs Ws family member was 
supporting her at this time, and Ive seen evidence that he sent information to Sherpa on Mrs 
W behalf. I cant be certain Mrs W did read the full client and fee agreements, but I have 
seen signatures that appear to be hers that suggest they were received by her. Mrs W 
agrees she received the recommendation letter which confirms the £100 per hour fee. I 
havent seen anything to suggest she queried this level of charge or the time spent after 
receiving this letter. Having considered all of the available evidence Im satisfied she was 
given information about the cost of the advice. On balance, I dont think I can reasonably say 
Sherpa has acted unfairly by requesting payment it has. 
I acknowledge there were some minor errors during the setting up and application stage by 
Sherpas adviser. This includes some factual errors about Mrs Ws personal circumstances 
in the advice documents and problems with inputting the correct bank details for payments to 
be taken. These were minor errors, but I understand Mrs Ws frustration here. Sherpa has 
admitted these errors and apologised at the time. I can see from Sherpas response that it 
agreed to reduce its fee by £50 to recognise the additional time spent rectifying and 
responding to these errors. Im satisfied this was a reasonable way of redressing these 
mistakes.Mrs W has also raised concerns about ongoing services. She says her queries about how to 
operate the ISA going forward including payment changes and making a lump sum payment 
for the 2022/23 tax year werent answered by Sherpa.  Sherpa says that it provided a 
transaction only service so didnt agree to complete any further ongoing service for her. 
Ive looked at the evidence available to see what was agreed in this respect. The 
recommendation letter is clear the advice given was not ongoing  just for the transaction. 
Ive noted the following:
Your [family member] will also provide support in the advice process and will provide any 
ongoing support so this advice will only be transactional. I will not be providing any ongoing 
advice.
And 
Future contact and ongoing services
We believe it is important to review your investment strategy at regular intervals to ensure it 
continues to meet your aims and objectives.
You have decided to receive a Transaction only service as detailed in our Service 
Proposition and Engagement. This means we will not review your circumstances or the 
investment. We do however recommend you review the ongoing suitability of your financial 
arrangements to account for any change in your circumstances and any changes to 
investment markets and legislation. This does not prohibit you from contacting us at any 
time. Please note separate charges will apply and will be notified at the time.
This is because you will rely on your [family member].
Im satisfied that there wasnt any agreement for Sherpa to give ongoing services to Mrs W 
(without further fees being incurred). The recommendation did include making a lump sum 
payment into the ISA for 2022/23 tax year. This couldnt be executed at the time of advice as 
at this time we were still in the 2021/22 tax year. The evidence available suggests there was 
an intention to pass the servicing of the ISA to another adviser post sale (at time this was 
anticipated to be Mrs Ws family member). In this circumstance, I think it reasonable to 
assume the new advisor would support her with any support she needed in the new tax year 
 rather than Sherpa being required to continue to be involved. Mrs W was free to seek an 
alternative advisor to help her with ongoing payments and Ive seen that her family member 
did provide information in April 2022 about how she could operate the account 
independently.  Overall, Ive not found evidence to support that Sherpa have done 
something wrong by not providing an ongoing service  and supporting Mrs W with her 
2022/23 lump sum payment. 
I acknowledge that Mrs W will be disappointed with the findings Ive reached, but I havent 
found that Sherpa has acted unreasonably or treated her unfairly in the circumstances.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Daniel LittleOmbudsman