DRN-2654584
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) cancelled his 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2020, after acquiring a new car Mr W said he asked LV to update his car details and 
motor insurance cover. Mr Ws policy with LV was due for renewal at the end of August 
2020.  LV agreed to provide insurance cover for Mr Ws car based on the chassis number as 
it was imported, but asked Mr W to get the DVLA to provide a UK registration number.
Mr W said he tried to get his car registered with the DVLA but because of the delays caused 
by the pandemic, he hadnt been able to get this done. He said LV cancelled his motor 
insurance policy unfairly as they didnt give him time or consider the difficulties he was 
experiencing.
Mr W also said that when he was able to get his car registered and insured, LV had unfairly 
increased the premium. He complained to LV.
LV said theyd temporarily provided motor insurance cover for Mr W while he arranged for 
his car to get a UK registration. They said they extended the time Mr W had to get this on 
several occasions, allowing for the delays caused by the pandemic. After the last extension, 
LV  gave Mr W notice that his motor insurance policy couldnt be renewed at the end of the 
policy without the required documents. And as hed hadnt provided the required UK 
registration, Mr Ws policy was cancelled. 
Mr W wasnt happy with LVs response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said LV had acted fairly and responsibly in their actions with Mr W as theyd 
provided ample time for Mr W to get his car registered.
Mr W didnt agree, he said he hadnt been able to contact the DVLA as they didnt accept 
written requests until July 2020. And reiterated LV had acted unfairly in cancelling his 
insurance policy. And then increasing the premiums hed to pay. He asked for an 
ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ws motor insurance policy terms do allow LV to cancel his policy in certain 
circumstances. I can understand Mr Ws frustration as these are difficult times, and there 
have been lengthy delays caused. So, Ive considered if LV cancelled the policy fairly and in 
line with the terms and conditions.
I can see Mr Ws policy documents explains that 
To help us validate your details, we may ask you to send us documents, information or 
allow us to access databases. This could include your car registration document, proof of 
your address and a copy of your utility bill. If you dont send us this documents/ information 
or give us permission to access a database, we may have to cancel your policy.
Mr W first contacted LV in May 2020 about insuring his imported car. LV has said that they 
usually allow 28 days for a customer to provide the required documentation. I can see that 
Mr W spoke to LV in July 2020 and explained he was still having difficulty in getting his car 
registered in the UK. LV agreed to extend the time allowed for a further two weeks.
On 8  August 2020 Mr W spoke again to LV, and it was explained to him that any extension 
could only run to the end of his existing motor insurance policy. This policy was due to end at 
11.59pm 31 August 2020. I can see that LV followed this call by informing Mr W in writing: 
We have recently sent you the renewal notice for your car insurance. Please note that we 
will only be able to renew if you can provide a UK registration number. If you are unable to 
provide this then your cover will end at 23.59hrs 31/08/2020.
Mr W said he spoke to an LV agent on 27 August 2020 about renewing his policy and 
obtained a renewal quote after some negotiation. And I can see that on 28 August 2020 Mr 
W was sent in writing:
Your LV= car insurance has renewed
And this went on to say:
You need to call us within 28 days, with the UK registration number for any vehicle with a 
chassis number.
So, I can understand Mr Ws frustration when the next day he was told that his policy had 
been cancelled with effect form 01 September 2020. I know Mr W says this only gave him 24 
hours notice. But I can see on the same day LV sent clarification to him, reinforcing the 
message sent 8 August 2020 that his policy couldnt continue without his car being 
registered. They acknowledged the new policy documents had been sent but said that this 
notification superseded any other documents. 
LVs policy terms and conditions say:
Well cancel your insurance by giving you 7 days notice:
So while I can see Mr Ws point hed only had 24 hours notification. LV had made him aware 
in early August 2020 that his policy wouldnt renew without the required documents. And Mr 
W said this wasnt discussed when he was negotiating his renewal, even though he was 
aware hed not yet got his car a UK registration, and the impact this would have. LV also 
reiterated this immediately after the policy documents were sent. Mr W knew he hadnt yet 
been able to send his UK registration to LV. So, Im satisfied Mr W was aware that his policy 
would be cancelled without his UK registration, and LV had given him sufficient notification.I know Mr W doesnt think LV has been sympathetic to the current situation . But in total from 
first asking for his car to be registered to the date Mr Ws policy was cancelled, LV had 
allowed 93 days for the necessary documents to be provided. So, Im satisfied LVs decision 
to cancel the policy was fair and reasonable and in line with the policy terms. So, I wont be 
asking LV to do anything further.
Mr W has said LV increased his motor insurance premium when he was able to provide the 
UK registration for his car. The remit of this service doesnt extend to telling insurers what
premium to charge for the risk requiring cover. Thats because this service isnt the regulator,
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) is. Therefore, our remit is to ensure Mr W wasnt
treated unfairly by LV, and that theyd adhered to their own underwriting guides
and procedures. I can see the renewal price before Mr Ws policy was cancelled was 
£425.98. Mr W said he negotiated a discount to £329.59 but this was at a time when his car 
still hadnt a UK registration and the full details about his policy, as Mr W has said wasnt 
discussed.
Mr W has since agreed a new policy with LV. And I can see this was again based on a 
premium of £425.98, and a discount was applied, bringing Mr Ws premium to £389.41.
As LVs basic price was the same for both policies £425.98. I cant say theyve acted unfairly 
in the way they have treated Mr W.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman