DRN-3244709
The complaint
Mr S complains about the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
applied when he returned a car after he voluntarily terminated a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
Mr S entered into a hire purchase agreement in June 2018 and he ended the agreement 
early in May 2021. He says hes unhappy with the end of contract charges that were applied 
when he returned the car. Mr S told us:
The car was in good condition, roadworthy, and well under the mileage allowed;
the car was checked by a mechanic before it was returned;
after drop-off, MBFS contacted him to claim £771.38 worth of damage which he 
disagrees with;
hes complained to MBFS, but it wouldnt reduce the charges that it says are due.
MBFS rejected this complaint. It said it provided Mr S with a copy of its Vehicle Returns 
Standards when he first took out the finance agreement and again six months before it 
ended. It said this document detailed the expected return condition of Mr S car. MBFS said 
the pricing matrix it had supplied to Mr S at the start of the finance agreement provided 
details of the expected cost of any repairs. And it said Mr S had had ample opportunity to 
familiarise himself with its fair wear and tear expectations and this provided him with the 
opportunity to have any repairs carried out.
MBFS said it was satisfied that the damage it had identified was clearly evidenced and had 
been charged in accordance with the Vehicle Returns Standards and the pricing matrix. And 
it confirmed that it was owed £771.38 by Mr S. 
Mr S disagreed and brought his complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that the standard for what constitutes fair wear and tear is set out in the British 
Vehicle Renting Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines and his role was to decide whether 
the charges applied by MBFS were fair and reasonable.
He said hed looked at the inspection video submitted by MBFS to support its position and 
he thought the damages were visible and outside the fair wear and tear guidance and, as a 
result, were chargeable.
Mr S disagrees, so the complaint comes to me to decide. He says he shouldnt have to pay 
for damage to the alloys, because the damage is minimal.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly 
the same reasons.
The terms and conditions of the agreement, signed by Mr S, sets out in some detail the 
acceptable return condition of the car. It clearly sets out what the acceptable conditions are, 
with examples, and goes on to detail what conditions are unacceptable. Ive read this 
carefully, and Im satisfied that Mr S was responsible for returning the car in good condition. 
The question is whether all the charges applied by MBFS are fair and reasonable.
MBFSs inspection identifies five areas of damage that it deems to be unacceptable - outside 
fair wear and tear:
1. Right hand rear alloy  damage was evident requiring refurbishment £110.00
2. Right hand front alloy  damage was evident requiring refurbishment £110.00
3. Left hand front bumper  scuffed in excess of 50mm requiring repair £130.00
4. Right hand front tyre  evidence of gouging requiring replacement £210.69
5. Left hand front tyre  evidence of gouging requiring replacement £210.69
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVLRA) and these are accepted as an industry standard in determining 
whether any damage goes beyond fair wear and tear. So, Ive also taken these into account 
alongside MBFS own Vehicle Return Standards when deciding what is fair and reasonable 
for MBFS to charge Mr S.
The Vehicle Return Standards, signed by Mr S in June 2018 says:
Bumpers and body mouldings - Scuff marks up to 50mm, which do not adversely 
affect the overall appearance of your vehicle are acceptable.
Wheels and Tyres - Any gouge, crack, cut, torn, or plugged tyre side wall is not 
acceptable.
The BVRLA guidance sets out the standard regarding fair wear and tear to alloy wheels. It 
says:
There must be no damage to sidewalls or tread
Dents and holes on wheel rims and wheel trims are not acceptable
Scuffs totalling up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel trim and on alloy 
wheels are acceptable
Any damage to the wheel spokes and the hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable
Ive looked very carefully at the evidence video that MBFS provided, and Im satisfied that 
the five areas of damage identified are damaged outside fair wear and tear and therefore 
chargeable. Both of the alloys have damage to their circumferences in excess of 50mm, as 
does the scuffing on the bumper. The two front tyres have been gouged and this can be 
seen clearly in the video evidence. So, I think the charges have been applied fairly.
Mr S says some of the damage is minimal and I accept that may well be the case. But 
minimal or not, the extent of each item of damage still exceeds that deemed acceptable by 
BVRLA and also exceeds MBFS own standards that Mr S signed to accept.Given all of the above, Im satisfied that the charges MBFS asked Mr S to pay were applied 
fairly and in line with relevant industry guidance and that MBFS has acted fairly in respect of 
the charges it applied.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman