DRN-4096033
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with the way Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) handled 
their claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D have a travel insurance policy underwritten by Great Lakes. They made a 
claim following a trip abroad when their return flight was cancelled by the airline. 
Great Lakes accepted the claim but only paid £20 for the travel delay. Mr and Mrs D 
complained about the settlement amount and the delay in settling the claim. Great Lakes 
apologised for the delay and offered £50 compensation. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs D referred their complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found Great Lakes hadnt correctly settled the 
claim. She recommended that Great Lakes pay the full benefit amount with interest plus the 
compensation it had offered if it hadnt already been paid. 
Great Lakes didnt respond and so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The relevant section of the policy is section 11 which says:
This section of the Policy sets out the cover We provide to each Insured Person in 
total per Insured Journey, up to the sums insured shown in the Table of Benefits, in 
the event of your unavoidable delay in departure of at least 12 hours from Your 
original scheduled departure time from Your first departure point on Your outward 
journey or Your last departure point on Your return journey as a result of
4. Cancellation by the transport provider of Your scheduled pre-booked 
international flight, ferry, train or coach.
Under what is covered, the policy says:
1. Travel delay benefit
b. in the event of 4. (cancellation by the transport provider), corresponding to the 
delay in departure that You would have experienced had You waited for the earliest 
replacement travel arrangements offered by Your original transport provider, in the 
event that You choose to make earlier alternative travel arrangements.
The table of benefits confirms the sum insured for travel delay benefit is £10 per 12 
hours up to £100.
Mr and Mrs D were due to fly back on Friday 16 September but that flight was cancelled. 
The next available flight with their airline wasnt until the following Wednesday. And so they 
booked alternative transport home on the following day.
Great Lakes settled the claim based on the date Mr and Mrs D returned to the UK. But it 
should have calculated the benefit based on the date of the next available flight, being the 
following Wednesday. So Mr and Mrs E are entitled to more than £20 each under the terms 
of the policy, as set out above. 
In addition, Great Lakes accepted it took too long to settle the claim for which it offered £50 
compensation. I agree that this is reasonable and should be paid if it hasnt already been 
paid.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to:
Calculate and pay the claim (up to the maximum travel delay benefit of £100 each) 
from the time of the original return flight to the next available flight (on the following 
Wednesday).
Add 8% simple interest on the amount due, from the date the claim was originally 
made, to the date the amount is paid.
Pay £50 compensation if this hasnt already been paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman