DRN-3186999
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C say that they were misled into buying a holiday club membership. Because 
their purchase was funded by a loan provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, 
they say that it is liable under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in the same way 
as the seller. Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trades as Barclays Partner Finance and 
I shall refer to it as BPF. Mr and Mrs C are represented by a firm of solicitors, which I shall 
refer to as S.
What happened
Purchase of club membership
S has explained that, in September 2008, Mr and Mrs C were offered a free holiday by CLC, 
a timeshare and holiday club business. They went to CLCs offices to collect their prize and 
were persuaded to buy a trial membership for £3,795. Most of that was paid for with a loan 
from a different lender.
In March 2009 Mr and Mrs C were given a free holiday as part of their trial membership. It 
was a condition of the holiday that they attend a presentation. This lasted most of the day. 
By the end of it Mr and Mrs C agreed to trade in their trial membership and buy full 
membership. They signed an agreement with Vacation Resorts Limited. They paid a £1,000 
deposit by credit card and were given credit for trading in the trial membership. To pay the 
balance and to repay the earlier loan, a loan of £19,025 was taken out with BPF.
The loan agreement recorded that Mr C was the borrower and that he was to repay the loan 
over 120 months at £332.26 a month. It also recorded that the retailer was Leading Resorts 
Limited.
Mr and Mrs C fell into financial difficulties. They entered into a repayment plan with BPF and 
then an individual voluntary arrangement, through which they repaid the loan and other 
debts. The IVA was completed in January 2016.
Mr and Mrs C raise a complaint
In August 2019 S, on behalf of Mr and Mrs C, contacted BPF. Ss letter said that the holiday 
club membership which Mr and Mrs C had bought in March 2009 had been misrepresented 
to them. They had been led to believe that the type of accommodation they had enjoyed on 
their free holiday was representative of the accommodation and facilities they could expect 
with their full membership. They had also been told that they would be able to sell their 
membership, that they could book accommodation anywhere in the world, even in high 
season, and that membership fees would not increase.
S said that these and other statements were untrue and gave rise to a claim in 
misrepresentation. Because BPF had financed the agreement under arrangements with the 
seller, it was liable under section 75.
S also said that some of the terms of membership were unfair within the meaning of the 
Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 and were not therefore enforceable. 
Further, the sales practices were in breach of the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading 
Regulations 2008.
Ss letter also alleged that the circumstances of the sale meant that a court could make an 
order under section 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act, relating to unfair credit 
agreements.
Finally, S alleged that BPF had not undertaken a proper assessment of Mr and Mrs Cs 
ability to repay the loan. 
S said that Mr and Mrs C were seeking: an indemnity of loan repayments made; a refund of 
all payments made under the loan agreement; repayment of all management fees paid; 
interest; compensation for distress, inconvenience and upset; and reimbursement of legal 
fees.
Ss letter of complaint ran to 17 pages, and I have only summarised here the main points. I 
have however considered carefully all that was in it.
BPF did not accept that it was liable to Mr and Mrs C. It said that any claim they might have
had against the seller of the club membership had expired under the Limitation Act 2010.
Referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service
S referred Mr and Mrs Cs complaint to this service and one of our investigators considered 
what had happened. She said that BPFs decision not to look into the claims arising from the 
sale of the club membership was fair. That was because those claims were more than likely 
to be time-barred under the Limitation Act. The relevant time limit was six years from the 
date of the contract in respect of the misrepresentation claim. In respect of any claim for 
relief under section 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act, it was six years from the 
date on which the finance agreement ended. That, according to BPF, had happened in 
September 2012.
As far as the claim about BPFs affordability checks were concerned, the investigator said 
that she had not seen anything to suggest that the lending was not affordable. She did not 
therefore recommend that BPF do anything more.
Response to the investigators view
S responded to the investigators view on behalf of Mr and Mrs S. S said, in summary: 
It was common ground that an action based on misrepresentation has a six-year 
limitation period.
For claims based on contract, the limitation period runs from the date of breach. The 
breaches of contract appeared some time after the date of the contract itself. S referred 
to the fact that Vacation Resorts Limited had been dissolved in August 2014 and was 
therefore in no position to fulfil its obligations under the contract.
For claims based on a deed, the limitation period is 12 years.
Claims for relief under section 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act are claims 
under a specialty and therefore subject to a 12-year limitation period which runs from 
the date on which the relationship ends. In this case, the relationship was ongoing, so 
the time limit had not begun to run. 
Because Mr and Mrs C did not accept the investigators view, the case was passed to me 
and I issued a provisional decision. My provisional findings
I noted in my provisional decision that, whilst both Mr and Mrs C were parties to the 
agreement for the sale of the club membership, only Mr C was a party to the finance 
agreement with BPF. That means that only he can bring this complaint. 
In respect of the various elements of the complaint itself, I summarise my provisional 
findings below:
The complaint that BPF had not carried out a proper credit assessment before agreeing 
to the loan was, under our own rules, referred to this service out of time. It had been 
referred more than six years after the event giving rise to the complaint and more than 
three years after Mr C knew he had cause for complaint. We therefore had no power to 
consider it.
I explained that, under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, a customer who 
has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject 
to certain conditions, bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions included that 
the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim and that the lending was 
provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of future arrangements 
between the lender and the supplier. In this case, Mr and Mrs Cs contract was with 
Vacation Resorts Limited, but the finance was arranged by Leading Resorts Limited. It 
was not clear therefore whether section 75 could apply, but I indicated that I would 
approach the case on the basis that the relationships of BPF and the two companies did 
meet the conditions of section 75. 
Under the Limitation Act a court action based on misrepresentation cannot generally be 
brought after six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. In this case 
the alleged misrepresentations were made in March 2009, but no claim was made until 
more than 10 years later. 
In response to the investigators view, S had said that, in respect of a claim under a 
deed, the relevant time under the Limitation Act was 12 years. But the claim here arose 
under a written contract, not a deed. 
S had said that Mr Cs claims under sections 104A and 104B of the Consumer Credit 
Act were claims based on a specialty (that is, a claim on a statutory cause of action) 
and that the relevant limitation period was therefore 12 years from the end of the 
relationship between the parties. S had said too that the relationship was ongoing  and 
that the limitation period had not therefore started. I thought however that, because Mr 
C was seeking to recover money paid to BPF, the relevant period was six years from 
the date when the loan agreement came to an end  that is, six years from September 
2012. 
S said too that the seller had been in breach of contract when it was dissolved in August 
2014. I noted however that no such claim had been made when the complaint was 
raised with BPF in August 2019. In any event, it was not clear that the seller had agreed 
to provide the services associated with the club membership or that those services had 
ceased in August 2014. The issue of the dissolution of the seller and the claim that this 
was a repudiatory breach of contract had not been raised until May 2021, more than six 
years after the event giving rise to the alleged breach.  
I observed as well that Mr C had agreed a repayment plan with BPF and that he and 
Mrs C had entered into an IVA which had been completed early in 2016. On the face of 
it, it would be unfair to re-open any settlement that had been agreed on the settlement 
of the loan. 
I noted that it was not for me to say whether any claim under section 75 or under 
sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act might be out of time under the Limitation Act. I considered however that it was reasonable of BPF to have taken the 
view that this was a likely outcome in court and to decline to consider those matters 
further. 
Response to my provisional decision 
S responded to my provisional decision to say that the seller of the holiday club membership 
had been dissolved and that CLC itself is in administration and is in the process of selling its 
property portfolio. None of the services under the contract could therefore be provided. This 
constituted a repudiatory breach of contract which cannot be remedied. Mr C was not aware 
of this breach until 2020, so this aspect could not be time-barred.                   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I shall discuss here only the submissions made by S in response to my provisional decision. 
My findings on other matters have not been directly challenged and I see no reason to 
change them or to expand on them. 
As far as the dissolution of Vacation Resorts Limited is concerned, it seems to me unlikely 
that, if this meant no services could be provided, it was not until several years after its 
dissolution that Mr C identified that. Either that companys dissolution made little or no 
difference to the provision of services or Mr C ought to have seen very much earlier that it 
did make a difference. 
I note too that S says now that Mr C had no knowledge of the repudiatory breach until 2020. 
But in its letter in reply to the investigators view, it said that BPF had received the complaint 
in August 2019. In fact, the August 2019 letter of complaint raises a number of issues (which 
I discussed in my provisional decision and above) but did not mention the dissolution of 
Vacation Resorts Limited or suggest that it amounted to a repudiatory breach of contract. In 
any event, the allegation that there was a breach of contract giving rise to a claim under 
section 75 has not been clearly set out. Certainly, the August 2019 claim letter did not say 
that no services were being provided or could be provided under the club membership. 
However, as I indicated in my provisional decision, the primary issue I have to consider is 
whether BPFs response to the complaint was fair in the circumstances. It is not for me to 
decide whether, for example, elements of the underlying claims against the seller or against 
BPF might be time-barred under the Limitation Act. Nor is it for me to decide whether Mr C 
has a claim for breach of contract against the seller or any associated company. 
In the circumstances I have described, I think was reasonable of BPF to take the view that 
the claims set out in Ss letter of August 2019 were likely to be out of time under the relevant 
provisions of the Limitation Act and to decline to consider them further. The claim that there 
was a repudiatory breach was not made until some time later.  
For the avoidance of doubt, the complaint about the credit assessment carried out by BPF 
was brought outside our own time limits and I have no power to consider it.       
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mr Cs complaint.   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman