DRN-3354287
The complaint
Mr B complains that errors by HSBC UK Bank Plc adversely affected his ability to apply to 
the bank for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr B was a partner in a partnership. The partnership banked with HSBC.
Mr Bs partner, Mr H, passed away in 2015. HSBC was notified and the bank initiated a 
review of the account with a view to its closure. But this was suspended and the account 
remained open.
Mr B says that the business continued to operate as a partnership and that Mr Hs wife, 
Mrs H, took over his share. The account, though, remained in the name of Mr B and Mr H.
In October 2020, Mr B applied to HSBC on behalf of the partnership for a Bounce Back Loan 
of £50,000.
HSBC declined the application as it had made on behalf of a partnership but one of the 
partners had passed away. The bank told Mr B in January 2021 that it was unable to 
proceed with the application, but didnt say why. When Mr B complained, the bank 
maintained its decision but again declined to specify its reasons. So Mr B referred the matter 
to us.
One of our investigators looked into things. In summary, she said:
HSBC had correctly declined the Bounce Back Loan application. This had been 
made on behalf of the partnership between Mr B and Mr H, which had ceased to 
exist. And the new partnership, between Mr B and Mrs H, didnt have a relationship 
with HSBC as yet.
HSBC had made errors in its administration of the account previously. It had been 
notified of Mr Hs death back in 2015 but had then not taken appropriate action to 
either amend or close the account. And she thought it had been reasonable for Mr B 
to assume that all was in order and to continue to trade through the account. 
The position of the new partnership, between Mr B and Mrs H, had therefore been 
left unable to apply for a Bounce Back Loan. So to put things right, she 
recommended that HSBC make the necessary changes to the account and then 
consider a Bounce Back Loan application from Mr B and Mrs H. She also 
recommended that HSBC pay £300 compensation for the inconvenience it had 
caused.
HSBC agreed to pay the £300 compensation and it amended the account such that it now 
belonged to the partnership between Mr B and Mrs H. The bank was also willing to consider 
a new Bounce Back Loan application from Mr B and Mrs H, but when doing so said that it 
hadnt been provided with sufficient evidence of the partnerships turnover to verify its 
eligibility for the loan amount it was seeking. So it declined to process a formal application 
unless further evidence was provided. 
Mr B thinks HSBC has sufficient information on which to have confirmed the partnerships 
eligibility for the loan  being a combination of the income received into the account, some 
financial statements and the fact that the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme allowed 
applicants to self-declare that they met the eligibility requirements.
Our investigator thought HSBCs position was reasonable. She thought the bank was 
entitled to verify the turnover figure and that the information it had requested from Mr B to do 
so was reasonable. So she didnt think HSBC needed to do anything more in respect of the 
Bounce Back Loan application, unless Mr B provided the further information it had 
requested.
As Mr B didnt accept our investigators view, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly 
similar reasons. Ill explain why.
I think it was reasonable for HSBC to decline the Bounce Back Loan application that Mr B 
made in October 2020. The application was made on behalf of the partnership between Mr B 
and Mr H  but as the bank was aware that Mr H had passed away, it considered the 
partnership to have ceased and that there was therefore no eligible applicant for the loan. 
Given that the general legal position is that a partnership is dissolved on the death of a 
partner  unless there is any specific agreement to the contrary  I think HSBCs decision 
was reasonable.
Mr B applied using the details of the account that remained in the name of the original 
partnership between Mr B and Mr H. That the account remained open and unchanged was 
at least in part  the result of errors on HSBCs part. I can see that the bank was notified of 
Mr Hs death at the time and the onus was then on the bank to take whatever steps were 
necessary with regard to the account. It didnt follow up on this with Mr B and, if it had done, 
its reasonable to assume that either a new account wouldve been opened or the existing 
account amended to reflect the new partnership between Mr B and Mrs H. Mr B could then 
have submitted a Bounce Back Loan application to HSBC, on behalf of the new partnership, 
without issue. 
At the same time, I dont think it is fair to hold HSBC solely responsible for the fact that the 
new partnership between Mr B and Mrs H didnt have its own account through which a 
Bounce Back Loan application could be made. They also had a responsibility to ensure that 
appropriate arrangements were in place for the partnership in light of Mr Hs death and I 
dont think it was reasonable to assume that the existing arrangements could continue 
unamended solely because of the unchanged HSBC bank account.
In any event, HSBC has since made the necessary changes to the account and 
reconsidered whether it would be willing to provide the Bounce Back Loan to the new 
partnership. So I dont think Mr B or the new partnership lost out  as the actions taken by 
the bank effectively put the parties in the position they wouldve been in if things had gone as 
they should have. Mr B was put to some inconvenience, in that he had to follow up on the 
declined application with the bank and ultimately raise a complaint to work out what had gone wrong and arrange the necessary resolution. Its right that hes compensated for this 
and I think that £300 is fair in the circumstances.
That leaves the consideration of the Bounce Back Loan application itself. HSBC agreed to 
review the application on the basis that it was made by the new partnership between Mr B 
and Mrs H. But it was unwilling to provide the loan  or process a formal application  as it 
didnt think the partnership could demonstrate its eligibility. I think this was reasonable and 
will explain why in a little more detail.
Firstly, I note that Mr B has questioned HSBCs entitlement to verify the information provided 
within the application as he highlights that applicants were required to self-declare that they 
met the eligibility criteria for a Bounce Back Loan. But while lenders werent obliged to verify 
the self-declared information provided by an applicant, they were also not prohibited from 
doing so. I think the checks HSBC sought to carry out on this application were in keeping 
with those expected under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules.
Under the Scheme, an applicant could borrow up to a maximum of 25% of their annual 
turnover  for which turnover for the 2019 calendar year was to be used. Mr B applied for a 
loan of £50,000, so the partnership needed to have a turnover of £200,000 to be eligible for 
this. HSBC wasnt satisfied, from the information available, that the partnerships turnover 
was at the requisite level. I think this decision was reasonable, because:
HSBC couldnt see that this level of income had been received into the partnerships 
account. The credits into the account throughout 2019 were significantly lower. 
Mr B has declined the banks request for a copy of his and/or Mrs Hs tax returns. 
While he doesnt think that they would provide the clarification that HSBC was 
looking for, I think it was a reasonable request and  even if subject to further queries 
or explanation  one that wouldve helped the bank consider the question of eligibility 
further. 
Mr B only provided very limited evidence of the partnerships annual turnover. This 
included a basic income and expenditure statement, with little to support the figures 
provided within it. 
A property sale accounted for the vast majority of the income, but only a completion 
statement was provided as evidence of this transaction. I think it was reasonable for 
the bank  particularly in light of issues as to how the partnership was set up in 
recent years  to seek further verification of the details of this sale. Although Mr B 
said other documentation may have been available, he declined to provide it. 
So I dont think it is down to an error on HSBCs part that left Mr B unable to obtain a Bounce 
Back Loan. I think the bank took reasonable steps to facilitate an application from him in 
response to the complaint and that it reviewed this fairly, in keeping with its requirements 
under the rules of the Loan Scheme. It follows that Im not requiring HSBC to take any 
further action in response to this aspect of the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require HSBC UK Bank 
Plc to pay Mr B compensation of £300.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman