DRN-3332405
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy he was unable to log a disputed transaction through his Barclays Bank UK 
PLC mobile banking app.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr L tried to log a disputed transaction via the Barclays mobile banking app. 
He was unable to do so as the dispute option he needed wasnt available. The same day he 
called Barclays to log the dispute and this was done successfully that day.
Mr L was unhappy he had to call as it was inconvenient. He said he had to spend a long time 
on the phone which took him away from his work. Because of this he asked Barclays to pay 
him £25 in compensation.
Barclays looked into it and apologised for the issue Mr L had encountered. They 
acknowledged his frustration but as the dispute was logged the same day and there was no 
evidence of financial loss they didnt feel compensation was warranted.
Our investigator didnt think Barclays needed to pay any compensation. As Mr L remained 
unhappy it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
Whilst I recognise it is more convenient for Mr L to manage his banking via the app. It isnt 
practical for the app to cover every eventuality. Likewise, with technology there is a potential 
for disruption to the service but that doesnt mean a customer has lost out as a result or 
requires compensation. 
In this case Mr L was unable to log the dispute via the app but there were alternative means 
for him to do this. I appreciate calling might take more time than using an app but he was 
able to successfully log the dispute the same day.
Barclays mobile banking terms say that where something goes wrong thats their fault, they 
will look to put things right. But there are some things theyre not responsible for such as 
when the app doesnt work as expected or doesnt meet a customers requirements.
Given this and the circumstances of the case, I dont think Barclays need to compensate 
Mr L.
I know he will be disappointed, but I cant see there has been a significant impact to award 
compensation and an apology for the difficulties Mr L faced is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman