DRN-3783019
The complaint
Miss L says Ageas Insurance Limited didnt offer her enough for her campervan when she 
made a claim on her motorhome insurance policy and provided very poor service to her.
What happened
Miss Ls vehicle was written-off after a non-fault incident in December 2021. She thought it 
was a rare model and would be worth £18,000, given the overheated second-hand vehicle 
market and the fact that campervans had increased in popularity during the pandemic. She 
also said shed just spent £2,000 on the engine. Ageass engineer inspected but he didnt 
increase the offer of £11,000 even after Miss L sent in adverts she thought were persuasive.
 
Meanwhile, Miss L had been provided with a replacement hire car. In March 2022 the hire 
firm contacted her to arrange to collect it. Miss L asked for hire to be extended until a 
settlement was agreed and shed bought a new vehicle. Ageas said that wasnt possible. 
Miss L pointed out that Ageas hadnt contacted her for over 8 weeks after the accident / 
claim and hadnt returned her calls - or told her about the hire ending. She thought with 
better service the claim wouldnt have dragged on, so shed have a new vehicle and the 
dispute over hire wouldnt have happened. Ageas said Miss L had caused the delay by not 
accepting the reasonable settlement sum it had offered. 
 
Miss L made a formal complaint to Ageas on 8 March 2022. Shortly afterwards she told it 
she was without a car from 14 March 2022 (when the hire car was collected) for eight weeks. 
Shed already told Ageas that as she was disabled, with multiple health conditions, she had 
to rely on having her own transport for daily living. She said shed had to pay to borrow a car 
from a friend, and that when she could afford it, shed bought a run-around car. 
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Ls complaint. Ageas hadnt provided its business file 
at the time  and the national trade guides we normally use for valuations  didnt quote for 
the vehicle. So the investigator thought it would be fair for Ageas to pay Miss L £18,000. 
Ageas then sent us its file, including the adverts its engineer had considered. We werent 
able to get a bespoke valuation for Miss Ls vehicle. So the investigator reviewed all the 
adverts found by Ageas and Miss L. He noted that Miss Ls adverts were for vehicles from 
the same decade in which her vehicle was registered, whereas Ageass werent. He said 
Ageas hadnt said why it had offered the lowest of the valuations in the range it had found 
(£11,000 to £14,000). He said it should offer Miss L £14,000 - but he didnt think it should 
pay compensation as well, as he thought the vehicle was hard to value.
Ageas didnt agree that it should offer Miss L more than it had done already, but Miss L 
didnt accept that her vehicle was worth less than £18,000. And she objected at length (with 
supporting evidence) to not having been compensated for Ageass poor service. As there 
was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
I issued a provisional decision as follows:       
Miss L has commented extensively on the situation and has provided many documents, 
including emails between her and Ageas. I dont intend to comment on every point that has 
been made by Miss L - or by Ageas. But Ive read all the documents on the file and will 
comment on those that I think are crucial to Miss Ls complaint.  
The valuation
It isnt our role to value vehicles. Instead we look at whether the valuation an insurer has 
offered appears to be reasonable, based on the available evidence. 
In this case I can see it would have been hard for Ageas to decide what the likely pre-
accident market value of Miss Ls vehicle was. There was no guidance available from the 
national trade guides, and I dont think the adverts found by Ageas and Miss L were 
particularly helpful either. In my opinion, theres a lack of consistency across the adverts as a 
whole  which is one of the reasons why we dont usually find the prices shown in them 
persuasive. The other reason we dont find adverts reliable is that they only show asking 
prices  which may not be achieved. I note that the prices in some of the adverts under 
consideration here have been reduced, despite the current hot second-hand market. 
Miss Ls vehicle was registered in 1999. The investigator preferred the adverts for vehicles 
from that decade. But I think its reasonable to consider vehicles than were registered more 
recently too, so Ive also looked at those registered from 2000 onwards.
Miss L has set out in detail the specification of her vehicle and has shown that recently she 
spent £2,000 on reconditioning the engine after the cambelt failed. Unfortunately, the 
maintenance of a vehicle doesnt increase its value. If it isnt kept in a roadworthy state, its 
value drops. Ageass engineer thought Miss Ls vehicle was of a good standard for its age, 
although he found some pre-accident damage on it. He noted that two vehicles in adverts 
Miss L had submitted were converted to campervans by high-end firms. The one with the 
best specification (including a hot water system, a toilet and central heating  and with half 
the mileage of Miss Ls vehicle) was advertised at £18,000. But the other high-end 
conversion (older than Miss Ls but with very low mileage) was advertised at £10,995. 
Recently, Miss L found two more adverts for vehicles on sale for £18,000 and set out the 
features her vehicle had that theirs didnt. Both vehicles had around half the mileage of her 
campervan  and its not possible to say what price either vehicle will sell for. Neither seems 
to have the very high specification of the other vehicle advertised at £18,000. And in terms of 
the extras on Miss Ls vehicle, in my opinion not all of them will necessarily add much 
value. I think many consumers are more interested in buying a vehicle with low mileage, as 
the overall wear and tear it will have sustained will be lower. 
The range of prices in the adverts is from £6,000 to £18,000  and all the advertised vehicles 
have considerably less mileage than Miss Ls vehicle. Most of them were registered after 
hers. But Miss L still thinks her campervan is worth at least £18,000. I dont think the 
evidence supports her opinion. I think the value of her vehicle is likely to be somewhere 
between that and £11,000. The halfway point is £14,500 - but the advertised prices of other 
vehicles registered in the same year as Miss Ls campervan (all with substantially less 
mileage than hers) is £13,300. Miss Ls vehicle may have higher specifications than some or 
all of them, but I dont think that outweighs the much greater mileage on it.
I can see why the engineer settled on £11,000 as a valuation, given that one of the high-end 
conversions, with much less mileage (but four years older than Miss Ls campervan) was on 
sale at £10,995. But in my opinion, some of the other adverts should also have been taken 
into consideration, given the great difficulty in this case in establishing a fair market value 
price for Miss Ls vehicle. I think it would have been reasonable for Ageas to have offered Miss L £13,300, so Im minded to conclude that it should increase its offer. Miss L thinks the 
interest on the settlement sum should be 10%, but currently this service only requires 
businesses to pay interest at 8%.        
 Poor service
Miss L has listed numerous issues that she regards as poor service on Ageass part. I wont 
set them all out here, but I think some of the issues relate to the accident itself or to the 
choices Miss L made. For example, it isnt Ageass fault that Miss L is likely to have to pay 
higher premiums after a non-fault accident. Thats the result of standard industry practice. 
And I think the considerable inconvenience and distress Miss L has detailed that was caused 
by having the damaged campervan parked outside her home for so long stemmed from her 
decision not to allow Ageas to collect it. Miss L says she thought handing it over would 
reduce her bargaining power, but I dont think shes shown that there was a sound basis for 
that view. If she was dubious about it, I think she should have checked with Ageas.
In my opinion, other issues Miss L has referred to show poor service on Ageass part. These 
include it not giving her notice about the car hire ending, promised calls back from it not 
being made, emails not being answered, and Miss L having to chase Ageas, only to find 
(around eight weeks after the engineer inspected her vehicle) that it had been written-off and 
valued at £11,000. I can see why all of that would have been frustrating for her  although 
the level of inconvenience she faced was limited by the fact that she was in hire for much of 
the time. But I think Miss Ls major concern is that the claim dragged on, due to the offer 
Ageas made and her view that it wasnt reasonable
.  
Valuations are often disputed, and one of the standard ways of moving them on is for the 
insurer to offer its valuation as an interim sum, and then give notice of the end of hire. Miss L 
told Ageas from the start that she was disabled and relied heavily on having her own 
transport for daily living. So it was even more important in her case to ensure that she had a 
vehicle. I havent seen anything on the file to show that Ageas offered Miss L an interim 
payment. Had it done so, Miss L could have continued to dispute the valuation and could 
have bought another vehicle on a temporary basis. Much of the stress she faced in dealing 
with the hire firm could have been avoided and she wouldnt have been left without transport 
for several weeks. 
Taking everything into account, Im minded to conclude that Ageas should pay Miss L 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. Subject to further comments from the parties, 
in my opinion, £350 would be a reasonable sum. 
When I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings, Ageas accepted them, but 
Miss L said  she hoped the decision would be changed in terms of the valuation and the 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. She said her mental and physical health had 
declined as a direct result of Ageass poor service  and that shell be financially affected for 
years by being unable to replace the only valuable asset she had with one thats like-for like. 
Miss L also provided medical evidence from her GP and a hospital doctor, as follows:
In her GPs opinion, Miss Ls mental health has been affected by dealing with the 
claims process following the accident, which she told him shed found extremely 
stressful. He said it led to relapses of her conditions (anxiety and depression) which 
impacted on daily living, with which he said shes struggling. The GP also said Miss L 
had told him that losing her independence (by being without transport, after having 
problems with the courtesy car) had made her life much harder.
The hospital doctor commented on the significant stress Miss L had been struggling 
with (for reasons that pre-dated the accident) and which had led to her referral by the GP to specialist services. She said that currently, Miss L is coping with low mood and 
a reduction in her physical and mental energy, which means shes unable to take part 
in planned therapy sessions at the hospital.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Part of the compensation proposed in my provisional decision was for the general poor 
service Miss L got from Ageas. And part of it was to make up for her not having been offered 
an interim settlement. I thought that would have made her life much easier. As Miss L had 
told Ageas about her disability - and her need to have her own transport for daily living  I 
thought an interim offer was more vital to her than to most non-disabled consumers. 
 
Ive now reconsidered the impact of Ageass actions on Miss L in the light of her further 
comments and the medical evidence shes provided. Based on what she and the medical 
practitioners have said, I think its reasonable to conclude that Miss L was coping with 
serious problems before the accident, and that she was already dealing with the impact of 
stress on her physical and mental health before she had any contact with Ageas. But I think 
the evidence points to her condition having deteriorated after the accident.
In my opinion, the loss of a treasured vehicle in itself will have had an adverse impact on 
Miss Ls state of mind. And shed explained previously how upset she was with the situation 
that arose as a result of having the damaged campervan parked outside her home. I dont 
think Ageas can be blamed for any of that. But I think Miss L faced great frustration, extra 
stress and unnecessary inconvenience as a result of its lack of contact, followed by a period 
without transport that was particularly hard for her. And I think all of that was avoidable.
 
In my opinion, an average consumer would have been distressed and inconvenienced by 
what happened. In the light of the medical evidence, I think it would be fair for Ageas to pay 
Miss L £500 in total for distress and inconvenience. I think that sum reflects the impact some 
of its actions had on her, as a disabled person with several medical conditions. We advised 
Ageas of the proposed increase in compensation recently, and of the reason for it, but it 
didnt comment. Miss L appears to be happy with it - and I think its appropriate here. 
 
Initially, in response to my provisional decision Miss L didnt provide any more information 
about the valuation. But after she was advised of the proposed increase in compensation for 
distress and inconvenience, she provided a further advert. Miss L said the campervan shown 
in the advert  on sale for £16,495 - was the closest shed seen to her own vehicle. She said 
although it had half the mileage of hers, the value of campervans is in their conversions.
I note that the advert shows the campervan was registered in the year after Miss Ls vehicle, 
and that its mileage is much less than half that of hers. The campervan is described as being 
in very good, rust-free condition, whereas there was some pre-existing damage on Miss Ls 
vehicle. And it has a new top-up roof that Miss Ls vehicle didnt have, as far as I can see. 
But it seems a basic history check on the advertised vehicle hadnt been done when the 
advert appeared. It isnt possible to say what any advertised vehicle will sell for, but one for 
sale without basic history checks may well not achieve its asking price. 
Even if it does, I dont think the advertised vehicle is really comparable to Miss Ls vehicle, 
mainly because of its low mileage, but also partly due to the other factors mentioned above. I 
know Miss L disagrees, but many consumers are wary of high mileage on a vehicle 
(because of the amount of wear and tear associated with it) so theyll pay more for a similar 
vehicle with low mileage. Ive considered the valuation issue carefully, as I know how unhappy Miss L was with 
Ageass offer and that she doesnt think my proposal to increase it is sufficient. I appreciate 
that shes faced a very difficult situation following the loss of her vehicle. But having taken 
everything into account, I dont intend to change the sum set out in my provisional decision, 
as I dont think Miss L has been able to show that it would be fair and reasonable to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to do the 
following:
Pay Miss L £13,300 for her vehicle
Add interest to that sum, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of its initial 
offer to the date of settlement
Pay Miss L £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience
If Ageas thinks its required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Miss L how much it has taken off. It should also provide a tax deduction 
certificate if required, so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman