DRN-3245105
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the amount Freeway UK Insurance Services Limited has 
charged him as a result of his commercial motor insurance policy being cancelled. 
What happened
Mr C got a quote from a comparison site for a policy through Freeway, who are an insurance 
broker. He agreed to go ahead with the policy and Freeway sent him all the relevant 
documentation before the policy was due to start. Freeway carried out some checks and 
picked up Mr C had failed to declare a claim hed made against a previous policy. They 
queried this with him. When they found out Mr C had failed to declare a claim involving a 
name driver made against one of his previous policies, they told Mr C the insurer would no 
longer provide the policy hed taken out through Freeway. They gave Mr C the option to 
cancel the policy before it actually started. Mr C wasnt happy with the way Freeway handled 
the matter and wouldnt listen to the script they wanted to read out before they would cancel 
the policy. In the end, the policy started and Freeway gave Mr C seven days-notice in writing 
that they intended to cancel it. And they did this after this seven day period had ended. 
Mr C had paid a deposit of £161.97 and Freeway didnt refund this. They said the charges 
for having the policy exceeded this. These included the premium charged by the insurer, a 
£160 policy set up fee and a £25 cancellation fee.
Mr F complained to Freeway, but they wouldnt alter their stance. They said that if Mr C had 
cancelled before the policy started hed have got a refund of £1.97, as only the £160 policy 
set up fee would have been payable. But, because he wouldnt allow them to read the script 
relating to cancellation and the policy ran for seven days, he wasnt entitled to a refund and 
owed them the remainder of what it said was due. 
Mr C complained to us and did a successful charge back on his £160 deposit. Freeway have 
said they still intend to pursue him for the full amount due and will pass the matter on to debt 
collectors. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Cs complaint. She upheld it and said Freeway 
should not have allowed the policy to start. In view of this, she thought they were only 
entitled to keep the policy set up fee of £160. 
Freeway dont agree and have asked for an ombudsmans decision. Theyve said it was 
clearly pointed out to Mr C that if the policy went ahead he would be charged a £25 
cancellation fee. And he was provided with clear documentation that set out all the charges. 
Despite this, he refused to cancel it over the phone. Theyve also pointed out the policy was 
cancelled due to a non-disclosure by Mr C. I presume from this they dont think he should 
avoid the cancellation fee when the policy was only cancelled because of his failure to 
disclose something. And Freeway have also said they dont accept the investigators view 
that the policy had no function, as they would have been required to pay any third party 
claims under the Road Traffic Act.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator that Freeway should never have allowed Mr Cs policy to start. 
This is because it was clear the insurer concerned was not willing to provide cover and 
would not be willing to settle any claims from Mr C. This means the policy was of no use to 
Mr C and hed have been liable for the cost of any third party claims. And Freeway have no 
Road Traffic Act liability for third party claims, as they are a broker. I agree the insurer would 
be liable, but theyd be able to recover anything they paid out from Mr C. And the fact it 
opened up the insurer to Road Traffic Act liability is another good reason why Freeway 
should not have let the policy start. It was clear from the telephone conversations Mr C had 
with Freeway he didnt want the policy and was going to make alternative arrangements. 
Therefore, if he wasnt willing to listen to the cancellation script, Freeway should have 
cancelled the policy before it started and written to him to explain the terms of the 
cancellation.
In summary, I think Freeway were wrong to let the policy start and then cancel it after seven 
days. And I dont think Mr C should lose out because they did this.  
Putting things right
If Freeway had cancelled the policy before it started all Mr C would have been liable for was 
the £160 policy set up fee, which Freeway have demonstrated is reasonable. So I think Mr C 
is still liable for this, even though he has managed to get his deposit back via a chargeback. 
However, I dont think he should be liable for the £25 cancellation fee or any charges by the 
insurer, as the policy should never have started. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is to uphold this complaint and Freeway UK 
Insurance Services Limited must waive any charges to Mr C except the £160 policy set up 
fee. This includes charges for any payments they have made to the insurer or the company 
that provided credit for the premium.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman