DRN-3090110
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC withdrew a loan offer to enable him to pay back his 
overdraft balance over a reasonable period of time.
What happened
Mr R had a current account with Lloyds which was overdrawn. After receiving advice from an 
advice bureau, Mr R initiated a switch of his account to a new bank and then called Lloyds to 
arrange refinancing to repay the overdrawn balance of the account. 
Lloyds initially agreed to offer a refinancing loan to Mr R, but later withdrew this offer on the 
basis that it wasnt their policy to offer such loans to customers that had initiated a switch of 
accounts away from themselves. Instead, Lloyds issued a demand to Mr R that the 
overdrawn balance of the account be repaid within 30 days. Mr R wasnt happy about this, 
so he raised a complaint.
Lloyds looked at Mr Rs complaint. They acknowledged that Mr R had told them about the 
impending account switch when he had applied for the loan, and that the agent that Mr R 
had spoken with hadnt recognised the significance of this. And Lloyds apologised to Mr R 
and offered to make a payment of £100 to him by way of compensation because of this.
But Lloyds also maintained that they couldnt offer the type of refinancing to Mr R that he 
wanted, because their policy was that such refinancing couldnt be offered to customers 
switching away to other banks. 
Mr R wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt think it was unreasonable for 
Lloyds to not offer the refinancing to Mr R, given that he was switching his account from 
them to another provider, and they felt that the £100 that Lloyds had offered Mr R for not 
explaining to him initially that refinancing couldnt be offered to him was reasonable. So, they 
didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that it must have been upsetting for Mr R to have been told at first by Lloyds 
that they would agree to a refinancing loan to enable him to repay his overdraft balance over 
a longer period of time, only for Lloyds to then withdraw that offer once whey understood that 
Mr R had arranged to switch his bank account away from Lloyds to a new provider.
Lloyds have explained that their policy in such situations is that loans cant be offered to 
customers who have arranged to switch out their accounts, and that instead a demand is 
sent to that customer for full repayment of any overdrawn balance.
It isnt for this service to instruct a bank to amend its policies, but I must note that Lloyds 
policy here seems fair to me, and I can understand why Lloyds wouldnt want to offer 
refinancing on an overdrawn balance in instances where a customer has already agreed to 
move the current account in question to a different bank.
Mr R has stated that he instructed the account switch on the basis of advice received from 
an advice bureau, and that by Lloyds not accepting to provide a loan to him, but instead 
demanding full repayment of the loan within a timescale that its impossible for him to meet, 
that he will be unable to meet the required repayment terms and effectively be saddled with 
default on his credit file through no fault of his own.
I can understand Mr Rs frustration here, but it should be noted that Mr R initiated the 
account switch away from Lloyds before he contacted Lloyds to arrange the refinancing, and 
without first checking with Lloyds what the potential consequences of initiating such an 
account switch might be. And I feel that it was Mr Rs responsibility to have done this.
It should be noted that once an account switch process has been initiated, it cant be 
stopped. The account will be switched to the selected new provider. And I feel that had Mr R 
contacted Lloyds and explained his intentions before initiating the account switch, its more 
likely than not that Lloyds would have told him at that time that if he chose to instruct an 
account switch then no offer of refinancing from Lloyds would be available to him.
As such, Im satisfied that by initiating the account switch without first contacting Lloyds, and 
before requesting the refinancing from Lloyds, it was always the case, at the point of Mr Rs 
call to Lloyds, that Lloyds werent ultimately going to offer Mr R the refinancing he sought, 
and also that it was always the case that Lloyds  on receipt of the account switch request 
from the bank that Mr R was switching to  would have issued the demand to Mr R for the 
full overdrawn balance. 
What should have happened was that Mr R should have been told that he wasnt eligible for 
a loan by Lloyds when he first contacted them to arrange the refinancing. But I dont feel that 
if Mr R had been told by Lloyds at that time that no refinancing could be offered to him, that 
the outcome here would have been any different. And this is because, as mentioned, Mr R 
had already initiated the account switch process at that time, meaning that the demand for 
repayment would always have been issued by Lloyds, and also because Mr R has confirmed 
to this service that he would never have been able to repay the overdrawn balance in the 
timeframe that Lloyds required on that repayment demand.
This means that I feel that, even had Lloyds told Mr R on the initial phone call that he 
wouldnt be eligible for any refinancing loans given that hed already initiated a switch away, 
its more likely than not that Mr R would still have incurred the default on his account. 
However, it remains the case that Lloyds didnt explain to Mr R in the first instance that they 
wouldnt be able to offer refinancing to him. And, while I dont think that Lloyds error here has 
directly contributed to an unfair outcome  for the reasons explained above  I do feel that 
Mr R should be compensated for not being told the correct information in the first instance. 
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer thats considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one person not being considered as being such by someone else. But the 
£100 that Lloyds have already offered to Mr R does feel fair to me, and I can confirm that its 
commensurate with what this service would expect, given the circumstances here. All of which means that Im satisfied that the complaint response that Lloyds have already 
issued to Mr R does represent a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint, and it 
follows that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any further action 
at this time. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr R was wanting, but I hope that hell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman