DRN-2144096
The complaint
Ms Ss representative, her son Mr S, complains on her behalf that she was mis-sold life 
cover by Phoenix Life Limited, formerly Cornhill Direct, referred to as the business. 
Mr S says his mother wasnt made aware that her premiums could exceed the sum assured. 
What happened
Mr S says in May 2000, his mother was sold a Senior Security Plan by the business, with a 
£10 monthly premium and £1,235 sum assured. He says by early 2019, shed paid well over 
£2,380. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Given the length of time thats passed since the sale of the policy, hes not surprised 
that the business is unable to provide more point of sale documentation. But he cant 
blame the business for this, as its not required to retain information for more than six 
years. Therefore, he can only consider the available evidence. 
On the face of the evidence, hes unable to say that this was an advised sale, 
therefore it was up to Ms S to ensure the policy was suitable for her circumstances.  
The business was under an obligation to provide clear information about the policy 
which it has, including highlighting the restrictions of the policy.   
Although the policy had a limit on the sum assured there was still a benefit to be 
derived from having such cover. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision.  In 
short, he said:
Hes unhappy that despite the business being unable to provide the application 
documentation, the investigator sided with the business, based upon his experience 
of these cases.
He understands that each case must be considered in light of its own facts. 
In this instance, Ms S wasnt informed that her premiums may not be enough to meet 
her obligations as the policy matured.
He doesnt accept that if Ms S had been notified that her premiums exceeded her life 
cover, she wouldve continued to pay towards the policy. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.
 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr S says, Im not persuaded that 
the business has done anything wrong. 
Mr S has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope Ms S wont take the fact my findings focus on what 
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr S and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information 
Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to say that this was an advised 
sale. Its likely this policy was taken out by Ms S on a direct basis. In other words, it was 
sold without financial advice. 
Its possible Ms S bought the plan in response to an advert in the papers or telephone call, 
but as a result Im unable to consider the suitability of the plan. Im mindful the business 
says this plan was sold as part of a marketing campaign where individuals were provided 
with information and an application form to return if they wanted to proceed with the policy. 
I appreciate Mr S is unhappy that the business is unable to provide a copy of the application 
form, but businesses arent generally required to retain information indefinitely. So, its no 
surprise that given the passage of time only a very limited number of documents relating to 
the policy is available. This isnt something I can blame the business for. 
Im aware that mis-selling can take place based on the nature of advertising and the 
representations contained within. But in this instance, Im satisfied that the documentation  
thats more likely than not  to have been supplied to Ms S before she accepted the plan 
were clear, fair and not misleading. I note under Other Restrictions at Point 9, the policy 
documentation makes clear the limit to the sum assured and what happens if Ms S stops 
paying the premiums. 
So, I think the documentation made reasonably clear the amount payable upon claim. And 
because the plan had a fixed sum assured and premiums, it was possible that more could be 
paid in, than paid out, in the event of death.
I appreciate Mr S says, its unlikely that his mother wouldve continued with the plan if she 
was made aware that she could end up paying more than the policy. But on balance, Im 
satisfied that she was and did continue to pay the premiums despite a limit to the sum 
assured, and that was a matter for her entirely. 
In other words, the onus was on Ms S to make sure the plan was suitable for her 
circumstances. I note she wouldve been given cancellation rights, in case she changed her 
mind soon after applying for the policy. I understand that the policy sum assured, and premiums were fixed from the outset based 
on a number of factors including Ms Ss age, sex, health and mortality tables. I also note she 
paid a sum of money over the period shes had the policy.
But if Ms S lived longer than what the insurers predicted, it was a natural consequence that 
she would have paid substantially more than the sum assured. But had she died before then, 
the policy wouldve paid out more than the amount of premiums paid in. Thats just how 
these policies operate and isnt unique to the business. 
Whilst I appreciate Ms Ss frustration, Im unable to require the business to do anything 
because I dont think it has done anything wrong. 
In conclusion, its more likely than not this was a non-advised sale, and sufficient policy 
documentation was provided that made reasonably clear the nature and operation of the 
policy.  
I appreciate Ms S will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what she wants to hear.
But on the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Ms S 
what she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman