DRN-3361688
The complaint
Mr M complains that Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited (trading as Autonet Insurance 
Group) (Autonet) caused him distress and inconvenience by renewing his commercial motor 
insurance policy on the wrong vehicle in error.
What happened
Mr M had taken out insurance on his van through Autonet in October 2019. In September 
2020, Mr M says he sold his old van and bought a new one. He says on 17 September 2020, 
he got a renewal invitation from Autonet, which was for his old van. He says on 18 
September 2020 he notified Autonet that hed bought the new van and Autonet told him his 
new van was covered, with a reduced policy premium.
A few months later, Mr M says he got a letter from the Motor Insurance Bureau (MIB) saying 
there was no record on the Motor Insurance Database of any insurance on his new van and 
he faced potential penalties if he ignored the letter. Mr M got in touch with Autonet, who said 
it had renewed his policy on his old van, rather than his new one, in error.
When Mr M complained to Autonet about what had happened, it upheld his complaint. It 
said:
If Mr M had made a claim or been stopped by the police for not having valid 
insurance, he wouldnt have been left in a position where he couldnt claim or was 
facing prosecution for being uninsured. 
It would cancel the policy that had been incorrectly set up and arrange a new one for 
the new van. 
It would pay Mr M £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had 
caused him. 
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr M brought his complaint to us. Before our investigator started 
to look into Mr Ms complaint, Autonet made Mr M a new settlement offer. It said it would: 
Pay Mr M £54.61 so he was fully reimbursed for the policy premium instalments hed 
paid on the policy that had been set up in error (it had previously only sent him a 
partial refund).
Pay Mr M £38.28 to refund him the cost of the temporary insurance he had to put in 
place before the new policy was set up.
Pay Mr M compensation of £350.00 in total in recognition of its error. 
Pay Mr M any other costs hed incurred because of its error, as long as it got proof of 
these.
Autonet also said if Mr M had been involved in an incident in the period for which he was 
uninsured on his new van because of its error, it would look at this under the terms of the 
policy Mr M expected to be in force, which included retrospective cover for any third party 
damage.
Mr M didnt accept Autonets offer. He didnt think £350 accurately reflected the distress and 
inconvenience Autonets error had caused him. So our investigator looked into Mr Ms 
complaint. And our investigators view was that Autonets total compensation offer of £350 
for the distress and inconvenience Mr M had suffered was fair and reasonable and in line 
with what we would recommend.
Mr M doesnt agree Autonets compensation offer is reflective of the distress and 
inconvenience he suffered. Nor does he think its consistent with the guidance and examples 
given on our website. So Mr Ms complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Autonet has acknowledged its error in insuring the wrong van and has agreed to pay Mr M 
the premium refunds Ive referred to. So these things arent in dispute. What is in dispute, 
though, is the impact Autonets error has had on Mr M.
Having looked at everything, Ive decided Autonets most recent offer of £350 for the distress 
and inconvenience its error caused Mr M is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
Mr M says he was shocked to get the letter from the MIB. He says he was especially 
shocked because, a few years earlier, another insurer had made a similar error. Mr M says 
this earlier error had led to him getting a conviction for driving without insurance and six 
points on his driving licence  and he says he also had to re-take his driving test. He says 
the MIB letter brought back difficult memories of the helplessness I felt being convicted for 
something that was an insurers admin error. 
Mr M thinks an award of compensation of between £750 and £1,500 is fair and reasonable 
because he suffered substantial distress, worry and upset with feelings and pain that were 
rekindled when he found he was uninsured again. Through his representative he says he 
felt severe distress knowing it had happened again and about how close he came to being 
convicted again through no fault of his own. 
Mr M says he also had to take his son home the weekend he found out about Autonets error 
(a 60-mile round trip) and needed his van for work at 7am on the following Monday morning. 
Autonet wasnt able to set up a new policy for him over the weekend and so, on top of 
everything else, he had to arrange temporary insurance cover. He says this was also 
distressing and inconvenient.
Autonets error has clearly caused Mr M considerable distress and inconvenience. For 
anyone to find out theyve been driving uninsured for a number of months through no fault of 
their own will be upsetting. Because of Mr Ms previous experience, with history seeming to 
repeat itself, I can understand why his feelings of distress were heightened. And Mr M also 
had the inconvenience of arranging temporary cover because Autonet couldnt set up a new 
policy for him immediately.
But alongside this, I also have to take into account that the distress and inconvenience Mr M 
experienced, while acute, was quite short-lived. A new policy was set up within a couple of 
days of Mr M contacting Autonet about its error, and he got temporary cover put in place 
over the weekend. And although this experience brought back painful memories for Mr M, 
history hadnt repeated itself here  he hadnt been stopped by the police for driving without 
insurance, he didnt have to go to court and he didnt have any points added to his driving 
licence. Nor has Mr M had to make a claim on his policy for the period in which he was 
uninsured. And Autonet subsequently reassured Mr M that, if hed made a claim or been stopped by the police, he wouldnt have been left in a position where, because of its error, he 
couldnt claim under the policy or faced prosecution for not having insurance.
Also, Autonet says it sent Mr M a welcome pack for his new insurance on 18 September 
2020 (he says hed previously got a renewal invitation on 17 September). A demands and 
needs statement included in the pack Ive seen shows the insured vehicle as being Mr Ms 
old van, not the new one. Im not sure of the sequence of events here. But if these 
documents were sent to Mr M after hed notified Autonet that he wanted his new van 
insured, I think its possible he couldve spotted Autonets error if hed checked the 
documents he was sent carefully  meaning Autonets error couldve been corrected sooner.
But regardless of this last point, I think Autonets error caused Mr M considerable distress 
and inconvenience, as Ive described. And I think this will have had a serious but fairly short-
term impact on Mr M. On this basis, Autonets offer of compensation of £350 is fair and 
reasonable and is in line with what wed expect it to offer in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
The offer that Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited (trading as Autonet Insurance Group) 
has made Mr M is fair and reasonable and I direct that it should:
Pay Mr M £350 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused 
him.
Pay Mr M £54.61 to reimburse him fully for the policy premiums hes paid on the 
policy that was set up in error.
Pay Mr M £38.28 to reimburse him for the cost of the temporary insurance he had to 
put in place.
Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited (trading as Autonet Insurance Group) must pay the 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision. If 
it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.*
*If Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited (trading as Autonet Insurance Group) considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell  Mr M how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr M a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022. 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman