DRN-3500361
The complaint
Mr D is a trustee of a trust which Ill refer to as W. He complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc
treated W unfairly when undertaking an account review.
What happened
W holds a bank account with HSBC. In February 2020, the bank wrote to W and asked that it
call the bank to provide some information as part of a safeguarding review. HSBC didnt get
a response, so it wrote to W again in August and discussed the matter with it on a call in
September to chase up the documentation it needed.
A couple of weeks after the call, HSBC wrote to W again saying its account would be closed
if it didnt provide the information the bank had requested by 17 December 2020. A follow up
letter was then issued in December extending the deadline until 18 January 2021.
Ws trustees believed they had sent the required information to the bank, so they contacted
HSBC in December. A further call with the bank took place on 5 January to discuss the
progress of the review, although without any meaningful progress.
On 18 January, Mr D noticed that Ws bank account had been suspended. He complained to
HSBC as he was unsure what had happened. On 10 February, Ws account was reactivated,
and on 25 February, the review was completed.
HSBC upheld the complaint in part. The bank said it had written to W several times to
undertake the safeguarding review, but as this hadnt been completed by the 18 January
deadline the account had been suspended. HSBC acknowledged Mr D had made contact
before the deadline, so the review date should have been extended. The bank apologised
and offered £250 compensation. Ws trustees didnt think the compensation was enough for
the inconvenience and financial loss it had incurred from the banks actions and asked this
service to look into its complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She acknowledged W had been
caused inconvenience when HSBC didnt extend its account review deadline and instead
suspended the account. But she didnt think W had suffered any financial loss as a result of
this and thought the £250 that HSBC had already offered was fair compensation for the
inconvenience its trustees had been caused.
Ws trustees didnt agree. They provided an estimate of the financial loss it believed it had
incurred and an explanation for the increased compensation amount it should receive. As an
agreement couldnt be reached the case was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 May 2022. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has acknowledged it made an error in not extending the deadline for the trust 
to provide the information it required. Its apologised for this and offered £250 
compensation for the inconvenience. I think that is a fair way to resolve things, so Im 
not requiring HSBC to take any further action. Ill explain why.
The banks error meant W wasnt able to use its account for around three weeks. Mr 
D has told us that because W account was suspended, it was unable tax or pay for 
petrol for its vehicles which meant they were off the road. W estimates that it suffered 
a financial loss of around £530 for this period, based on the donations that it lost out 
on. W has shown that it became aware the vehicles werent taxed on 4 May but Mr D 
then paid the vehicle tax himself on 9 May. I acknowledge this was inconvenient for 
W, but based on the information provided, it appears the vehicles were unusable for 
five days, rather than two weeks.
In any event, I cant see that this actually caused W a financial loss. Even accepting 
that there was some impact on its operations, W runs a charitable operation through 
which it collects donated items and passes them on to others. This wouldnt be 
classed as a financial loss as there wasnt any money involved and W hasnt lost any 
money itself from not collecting the donations.
Mr D also says that the issue caused it reputational damage. But I havent seen any
evidence thats the case. Mr D has told us that the trustees were able to mitigate 
some of the impact from this by paying bills and costs themselves. And I think its 
reasonable to believe that W would have been able to explain to potential donors 
what had happened - given how the charity works, I think its unlikely donors would 
believe this was a result of Ws own actions. The bank also apologised in its Final 
Response Letter for its actions, which W could show to anyone who has concerns 
about what happened - should it need to.
I think its clear though, that the banks error caused Mr D and the other trustees 
some distress and inconvenience. The trustees had to cover some costs while they 
were unable to access Ws account  which had to be claimed back at a later date  
so there was inconvenience in making alternative arrangements while Ws account 
couldnt be utilised.
W believes that the compensation offered by HSBC isnt enough. It says that £750 is 
a reasonable figure based on similar awards by this service. But I dont agree. As a 
service, we dont set a precedent when making awards. Each case is assessed on its 
individual merits and the impact on the complainant and thats what I have 
considered when making my decision.
Its not for me to fine or punish a business for making a mistake. HSBC has 
apologised and offered £250 compensation for the inconvenience caused  and 
taking everything into account, I think that the bank has done enough to put things 
right. Therefore I wont be asking HSBC to do anything more.
Mr D also says that he wasnt given a satisfactory explanation for what happened. 
But I dont agree because:
HSBC sent letters to W explaining that further information was required from 
the banks customers to help deter fraud, money laundering and tax evasion. 
The letters also said notice to close the account may be given if this 
information wasnt given  in line with the banks terms and conditions.
The bank requested the outstanding information from W on at least four moreoccasions - over a period of around eleven months - and clearly explained the
account would be closed if this wasnt provided. HSBC also extended the 
review deadline on several occasions - taking into account circumstances 
outside Ws control such as the coronavirus pandemic.
HSBC spoke to a representative of W on the phone in September and 
requested the outstanding information. This still wasnt received by the bank 
in time for the next review deadline in December as expected.
HSBC explained in its final response that there had been an error by a 
member of staff which meant the account review date hadnt been moved 
forward as it should have been.
I invited Mr D and HSBC to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision. HSBC accepted the decision and said it had 
nothing further to add. Mr D didnt say whether the trust agreed or disagreed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as HSBC responded to say it had nothing further to add and Mr D hasnt 
responded with any further information, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion.
So this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £250 to settle the complaint and I think
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay £250 to Mr D for the
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman