DRN-2890804
The complaint
Ms T says Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited (Mutual) lent to her irresponsibly. 
She says the loans caused her to end up in a debt spiral. She thinks Mutual shouldve seen 
this and not lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about seven home collected loans Mutual provided to Ms T between 
February 2013 and December 2017. Some of the information I have been provided about 
the lending is in the table below. 
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedTerm 
(weeks)date ended
1 26/09/2012 £150.00 26 27/02/2013
2 22/12/2012 £200.00 51 18/12/2013
3 21/12/2013 £200.00 51 10/12/2014
4 13/12/2014 £500.00 102 20/07/2016
5 16/07/2016 £500.00 102 outstanding
6 10/12/2016 £500.00 51 30/10/2019
7 16/12/2017 £400.00 51 outstanding
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought that loans 1 to 3 werent within the 
jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. But he said that Mutual shouldnt have 
approved any lending from loan 4 onwards as the lending pattern itself was harmful. 
Ms T didnt disagree with the adjudicators opinion.
Mutual disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. Ive read in total what Mutual has said, and 
its own summary of this is below:
Mutuals loans are a mid-cost product not a high-cost one, the lending should not be 
assessed as high-cost
Mutuals lending was for durations of 1-2 years, a short term lending approach is not 
suitable for the assessment of the loans issued
Mutuals loans have never intended to be used as short term use. It is a mid-cost 
lender for customers to spread large expenses over weekly payments with no fear of 
late payment fees or charges.
The pattern of lending shows no signs of unsustainable borrowing. The loans were 
spread over many years.
Mutual assess the affordability, creditworthiness and sustainability of the lending 
robustly in a manual underwriting assessment. Rules do not prescribe how this 
assessment should be made.
There is no evidence the customer was reliant on the loans.
There is no requirement for the customer to have a break in lending in any rule or 
guidance we are aware of.
The 1st loan should not set the limit for subsequent lending. It would be wrong and 
irresponsible to insist the customer borrows more than they are after simply because 
they could afford to do so.
Taking 7 loans over 6 years is not the same as taking 7 loans in 1 year
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to issue a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms T could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Ts complaint in part Ive explained why below.
Mutuals response concerns how it defines the cost of the credit and the risk of it to Ms T. It 
also concerns our approach to repeat lending. This Service has responded to Mutual on these issues in detail through other final decisions it has received, and the published 
decisions on our website. So, Im not going deal with these points at length here.
I will say briefly that I consider it reasonable to describe this lending as high cost credit, as 
does the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit within its 
identified high cost credit cohort. And while I note it has a longer term than, for example, a 
payday loan, that does not make it a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. And, as 
such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has not said 
anything to the contrary on this point. I have considered these issues alongside everything 
else in making my decision.
Ms T didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion not to consider loans 1 to 3. Because of 
this I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. And, for the 
avoidance of doubt, given the evidence I have, I dont disagree with what the adjudicator 
said about our jurisdiction and so I wont consider these loans. But they were part of the 
borrowing relationship Ms T had with Mutual. So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans, she took.
But I will comment that much of the information provided by Mutual about the checks it made 
concerns the process its agents would have followed. But there is very little evidence to 
show these processes were followed here. There is application data for some of the lending, 
but there isnt a great deal of detail in this. It doesnt really get to the bottom of Ms Ts 
financial circumstances or why she was taking these loans.
So, Im not clear how outlining the policies its agent is supposed to have followed, but didnt, 
are helpful here. Im not able to place any weight on descriptions of what ought to have 
happened.
Notwithstanding my concerns about the sales process itself, Ive looked at the overall pattern 
of Mutuals lending history with Ms T, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which 
Mutual should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Mutual should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further 
loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Ts case, I think that this point was reached 
by loan 4. I say this because:
Ms T had been indebted to Mutual for around two years. The loans up to this point 
were intended to run for around a year. So Mutual could have perhaps expected this 
would be the case. And she was making a commitment for another two years at this 
time. 
And, rather than the picture of decreasing indebtedness which would happen when a 
loan is taken and repaid, there was a pattern of repeated and increasing borrowing. I 
think taking out three longer term high cost loans, over this period, is a strong 
indicator that Ms T was starting to struggle financially.
Loan 1 had been for £150, and loans 2 and 3 were for £200. But loan four was a 
significantly larger amount of £500. Its the same amount of the earlier three loans 
Ms T had just repaid. At this point Mutual ought to have known that Ms T was not 
likely borrowing to meet a shorter-term shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing 
need.
So, because of the above factors, Mutual ought to have realised it was more likely 
than not that Ms Ts indebtedness was now unsustainable. 
And this is reflected in the information Mutual recorded about why Ms T started these 
loans. The majority of these loans were used to fund yearly expenditures such as Christmas. It isnt necessarily, or automatically, unreasonable to use this type of 
credit to do this. But using a high cost form of borrowing over a prolonged period is 
still likely to have caused financial problems, and in this case the evidence suggests 
it left Ms T with little alternative but to borrow again in the future, when these yearly 
expenditures were likely to be incurred again, as she did.
Right from the start Ms T was provided with a new loan within a short time of settling 
an earlier one, or when she hadnt repaid an existing loan. So, there wasnt an 
appreciable time when Ms T wasnt in debt to Mutual. And its notable that by loan 7 
Ms T hadnt repaid loans 5 and 6. The total she had borrowed over these loans was 
£1,500 which is a high amount, given what I know about her circumstances. 
Ms T didnt make any real inroads to the amount she owed Mutual. Loan 7 was taken 
over five years after Ms Ts first. So, the harmful pattern I think was established from 
loan 4 continued. Ms T had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt 
to Mutual over a very long time.
I think that Ms T lost out because Mutual continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ts indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the number of loans the length of time over which Ms T borrowed was likely to have 
had negative implications on Ms Ts ability to access mainstream credit and so kept 
her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 4 to 7 and Mutual should put things 
right.
Mutual has referred to the 2020 High Court judgement in the case of Kerrigan vs Elevate 
Credit International Limited. It has essentially said that the judge in this case said that the 
relationship could be fair if there are a lower number of loans per year. For example, under 
four loans a year. It said, as it lent a lower amount than this, then this would indicate, on the 
same basis as the court case, that it hadnt lent unsustainably.
Firstly, looking at the courts findings at this point in the judgement, the judge was talking 
about whether an unfair relationship had developed. This is a different question, with some 
different considerations, than whether a loan, or series of loans, has been lent irresponsibly.
I accept that there can be some overlap between whether a pattern of lending itself shows 
that the lending is unsustainable, and a relationship is unfair. But the court in this judgement 
was considering issues related to short term high cost credit rather than home collected 
credit. I can see Mutual has acknowledged they are different products with different 
considerations. And indeed has repeatedly been keen to distance its products from those of 
short term high cost credit providers. So, this means that the judges conclusions about a 
differently structured product shouldnt and cant be directly applied here.
And in any event the number of loans is just one aspect of decided whether a lending pattern 
is harmful. The loan size, duration of loans, the repayments and other factors need to be 
also looked at, as Ive done above.
So, whilst I have noted Mutuals submissions on this point, it hasnt introduced any 
arguments which persuade me to change my opinion about this complaint. 
Putting things rightIn deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms T from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms T may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms T in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms T would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mutual shouldnt have given Ms T loans 4 to 7.
If Mutual has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Mutual is not able to buy the debts back then Mutual should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms T towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
it has already refunded.
B) Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms T 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms T originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mutual should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Ms T as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Ms T having made 
overpayments then Mutual should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Mutual should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Ms T. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Mutual should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms T. Mutual shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Mutual has already written-off.
E) The overall pattern of Ms Ts borrowing for loans 4 to 7 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Ms Ts credit file. Mutual does not have to remove loans 5 and 7 from Ms Ts credit file until these have been 
repaid, but Mutual should still remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mutual to deduct tax from this interest. Mutual should 
give Ms T a certificate showing how much tax Mutual has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Ms Ts complaint.
Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman