DRN-3195539
The complaint
Miss J complains about advice she says she received from Bullerwell & Co Limited 
(Bullerwell) when looking to take out motor insurance.
What happened
Miss J was given a vehicle that she wanted to sell. She contacted Bullerwell, an insurance 
broker, by email for a quote to insure the car. As Miss J already owned another car, 
Bullerwell suggested it might work out cheaper to temporarily add the vehicle she wanted to 
sell to her existing motor insurance policy. This policy had not been arranged through 
Bullerwell. Miss J said she wouldnt be driving the car she was selling, and asked if there 
was any other option. Bullerwell replied by email saying
Unfortunately the car has to be insured or if not insured placed on a Statutory Off Road 
Notice. (SORN).
Bullerwell again suggested Miss J contacted the insurer of her other car. Bullerwell did then 
provide a quote, which was high, and asked Miss J if she had contacted her current insurer. 
A member of Miss Js family replied to this email, copying in Miss J, saying she thought Miss 
J was adding the car to her existing policy.
Bullerwell says a few months later Miss J again contacted it asking for a quote for both cars. 
Bullerwell again told Miss J it couldnt compete with the price offered by her insurer.
Some months later, Miss J says two cars were stolen from her which were not insured. Miss 
J complained to Bullerwell, saying the cars were uninsured on its advice in the email. 
Bullerwell replied, saying that the statement in the email was factually correct.
Miss J wasnt happy with this response and complained to this service. She spoke to our 
investigator and said that, in a phone call with Bullerwell, she had asked if the car could be 
both on a SORN and insured for theft and was told no. Miss J said she had since found out 
this isnt true. The investigator contacted Bullerwell to try to get a recording of any phone 
calls around the relevant time. However Bullerwell said at that time, due to the Covid 
lockdown, calls were being dealt with on mobile phones with no facility to make recordings. 
Bullerwell also said that the member of staff who had been in correspondence with Miss J 
had no memory of this call, and there was no mention of it in emails. Bullerwell also said it 
had advised Miss J to contact her current insurer, and was later told the vehicle was being 
added to her existing policy. 
So our investigator didnt uphold Miss Js complaint. He said in the absence of any evidence 
that Bullerwell had given wrong advice, and considering Bullerwell thought the car was 
insured elsewhere, he couldnt say it had done anything wrong.
Miss J wasnt happy with this response, so her complaint has been passed to me. Miss J 
wants Bullerwell to be held to account for the loss she has incurred.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Miss Js complaint. Ill explain why. 
The Road Traffic Act 1988 makes it a legal requirement for all vehicles used on the road to 
be insured. The Continuous Insurance Enforcement Regulations 2011 make it compulsory 
for all motor vehicles to either be insured or declared off the road via a SORN. 
Bullerwell told Miss J in the email that the car had to be insured, or if not insured, placed on 
a SORN. This is correct advice.
Ive considered whether or not its likely that Bullerwell then gave Miss J different, and 
incorrect, advice in a phone call. Unfortunately there are no phone recordings from the 
relevant time. This was around the time of the first Covid lockdown. So staff had to change 
their working arrangements. Bullerwell says that after a while a system for recording mobile 
phone calls was introduced, but it wasnt in use at the relevant time. Although this wasnt 
ideal, I think it was reasonable in the circumstances.
The member of staff who had been dealing with Miss J by email cant recall a phone call 
where the matter was discussed. But even if there was such a call, I think it unlikely that the 
staff member, having given correct advice by email, would then have given incorrect advice. 
It is of note that after Miss J told Bullerwell she wouldnt be driving the second car, Bullerwell 
advised her on at least two occasions to contact her existing insurer to get the best price for 
both cars.
So on balance I dont think Bullerwell incorrectly advised Miss J that she couldnt insure her 
car if it was declared off the road via a SORN.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Js complaint. So 
I wont be asking Bullerwell and Co Ltd to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman