DRN-3823397
The complaint
Miss P complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont reimburse her for funds she sent to an 
investment scam.
What happened
Miss P was contacted by someone on social media about an investment opportunity. She 
said she was interested and they began messaging. She used a genuine cryptocurrency 
exchange to send money to what she believed was an investment platform. She sent money 
using her Monzo account and a credit card  this complaint relates only to the Monzo 
account. 
Miss P sent three payments using her Monzo debit card, £682, £45, and £700. She realised 
shed been scammed when she kept being asked for more funds to release her profits. She 
wants Monzo to refund her as she says the payments were suspicious. Monzo didnt agree 
to refund her as she authorised the payments to a genuine cryptocurrency firm. And it didnt 
agree it needed to intervene or could recover her funds.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ps complaint. He didnt think the amounts she sent were 
high enough for Monzo to intervene. And he said Miss P couldnt get her money back 
through chargeback as she had received the cryptocurrency shed paid for and sent this on 
to the scammer. Miss P asked for an ombudsman to review her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
I appreciate that Miss P has lost a significant amount of money for her. But this amount 
wasnt paid in a single large or out of character transaction. It was spread over three 
separate smaller increments. And Monzo is a large bank responsible for actioning 
thousands of payments a day. So it isnt reasonable for it to speak to customers about 
each and every one of them. It needs to do this in situations where there is an indication 
that there may be a fraud risk. 
I accept these payments were higher than the other spending on Miss Ps account. But I 
dont think they were so high or unusual that Monzo did need to intervene. Considering 
these payments alongside Miss Ps other spending and Monzos wider responsibilities, I 
dont think it ought to have regarded them as suspicious or an indication that Miss P 
might have been at risk of falling victim to a scam. So it didnt need to stop the payments 
at the time.
Ive then thought about whether Monzo couldve done more to recover the funds after 
Miss P reported the fraud, as in some circumstances money spent on a debit card can 
be recovered via the bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, a chargeback is a 
voluntary scheme run by the card provider, in this case Mastercard. And that process is 
subject to the rules of the scheme and we wouldnt expect a bank to pursue matters to 
final arbitration if there was no prospect of success.
In these circumstances, Miss P used her debit card to pay a legitimate cryptocurrency 
exchange before the funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So she 
wouldnt be able to make a successful chargeback claim in these circumstances, 
because the service would be considered provided (i.e. the purchase of cryptocurrency). 
Therefore, I dont think Monzo has acted unreasonably by not pursuing a chargeback 
claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman