DRN-3660173
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax acted irresponsibly when it
provided him with a loan for £3,000 in August 2017.
Background
Mr N applied for the loan online in August 2017. He has said that the loan was approved
very quickly, and the funds released into his account without anyone from the bank
contacting him to discuss the loan, his current financial situation or whether he could afford
the repayments. Mr N has explained at the time of application he was gambling excessively
and spending money beyond his means. He also applied for additional credit from Halifax
around this time including an overdraft and a credit card.
Mr N believes it shouldve been apparent to Halifax that he wasnt managing his finances
well and that he would have problems repaying the loan. Mr N did eventually fall into arrears
on the loan in 2018 and entered a debt management plan in 2019. He thinks the online
application process was too easy and the business failed to adequately check his
circumstances before providing him with a sizeable loan.
Halifax has said that it did run all of the necessary affordability checks before approving Mr
Ns loan and that it was possible to this without having to speak to him directly. It believes
the loan was affordable to Mr N at the time of application and has pointed out that it was
unaware he was gambling or that this was causing him problems. It has said that its not the
role of the bank to monitor the individual transactions a customer makes and that gambling
is a legal activity, and it would be inappropriate for the bank to assume someone had an
addiction just because they gambled regularly. Therefore, it didnt think it had done anything
wrong when it provided Mr N with the loan and didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr N remained unhappy and so he brought his complaint to our service.
I issued a provisional decision on 5 August 2022 upholding Mr Ns complaint and 
recommending that Halifax refund all of he linked interest and chargers that Mr N paid in 
relation to the loan and apply 8% interest to that amount. 
Both Mr N and Halifax have responded to the provisional decision agreeing with the 
suggested outcome. Therefore I find no reason to change the findings set out in that 
decision but will repeat them below for the sake of clarity. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending,
including the key rules, guidance, and good industry practice, on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Ns complaint.
Halifax needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly, in this case providing Mr N with
credit in the form of a £3,000 loan. In practice, what this means is Halifax needed to carry
out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr N would be able to repay what
he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our website sets out what we typically
think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate.
It is important to clarify that these checks are considering two separate things, whether or
not the loan appears to be affordable, and also whether or not the repayments are likely to
be sustainable.
Halifax has said that at the time of lending Mr N had a declared income of approximately
£1,400 a month and combined fixed outgoings of about £500 a month. That means that on
paper it appeared as though Mr N had a monthly disposable income of approximately £900 a
month. Halifax has also said that at time Mr N was using his overdraft, which was set with a
limit of £2,600, but not exceeding this and was paying the associated fees in full every
month. In addition there was no evidence of any missed direct debits or standing orders
going unpaid either. Therefore, Mr Ns application passed all of its checks and the loan was
approved.
I agree that at the time of application the loan appeared to be affordable and so Mr N
wouldve passed the first part of the test. However, Halifax also needed to consider how Mr
N had been managing his existing lines of credit in order to ensure any lending was also
sustainable.
We asked both Halifax and Mr N to provide us with information from his credit file at the time
of application in order to consider this part of the test. Unfortunately, due to the passage of
time neither party was able to provide this. Although Halifax has said that it wouldnt have
provided the loan if there was anything of concern in the information it collated at that time.
As Mr Ns credit information wasnt available Halifax instead provided us with copies of his
bank statements from early February 2017 which show how his account was maintained in
the six months leading up to the loan application in late August 2017. Having reviewed these
I note that throughout that time Mr N was consistently overdrawn and never once got his
account back into credit. This was despite receiving a salary into this account. Overdrafts are
an open-end, running account agreement and can be removed at short notice by a lender
and so its concerning to see that Mr N appeared to be relying on his to repay all of his
monthly outgoings. And that means that in reality he didnt have any disposable income he
could rely on at the time he applied for his loan.
It is also worth noting that had Halifax queried why Mr N was relying so heavily on his
overdraft facility at the time it wouldve also seen that he was making daily payments to a
single merchant. That merchant was an online casino and looking just at the days between
the start of August to the date he applied for his loan, Mr N had gambled approximately £795
through that merchant. Which equated to over half his declared monthly income and also
nearly all of his declared disposable income. This is just representative of the gambling
spend in the weeks before he applied for the loan. There is evidence of frequent gambling
every month in the statements Halifax sent us; both before and after Mr N received the loan.
Had Halifax considered this information, which was immediately available to it, I dont believe
it wouldve approved Mr Ns loan.
Ive also considered the fact that Halifax has said after the funds of the loan, which Mr N had
said was for home improvements, were released into the account, Halifax immediately
reduced Mr Ns overdraft limit to £400 as the loan put the account into credit for the first time
in over six months. This effectively means the loan was used for debt consolidation as there
were no funds left for home improvements. The remainder was used to gamble and within aweek Mr N was overdrawn again and by October was charged an additional £30 for
exceeding his new limit by less than £8.
Therefore, I am unable to agree with Halifaxs findings that the loan was affordable for Mr N.
And while I agree it would be inappropriate for a bank to make assumptions about whether
or not its customers have potential gambling addictions, I think there was sufficient evidence
available to the bank for it to conclude that Mr N was not managing his finances well and that
his gambling habits at the time were likely contributing to that. Ideally the bank wouldve
queried this with Mr N and offered support, but at the very least it shouldnt have approved
his application for more credit thus making a difficult situation worse.
In regard to Mr Ns complaint that no one from Halifax contacted him to discuss his
application prior to approving the loan, this isnt unusual for online applications. The amount
of direct interaction between customers and their banks is reducing as we all become
increasingly more reliant on technology and remote services. So, I dont think that in general
someone being able to apply for a loan, and have it approved, without speaking to a
representative is necessarily indicative of a problem. However, in Mr Ns case I think there
was enough evidence to show he wasnt managing his finances well and so I am upholding
his complaint on that basis but not because of the lack of human communication during the
application process.
Putting things right
As I think Halifax was wrong to approve Mr Ns loan, I need to consider what it should now
do to put things right. Mr N has said he wants Halifax to refund the loan amount in full as well
as all associated charges and fees.
I dont agree that Mr N should have the capital he borrowed refunded to him. Afterall this
was ultimately used to repay his overdraft at the time and so he did have some benefit from
the funds. However, I do think Halifax should refund all of the linked interest and charges
that Mr N paid in relation to this loan. And it should apply 8% interest to that amount.
I know Mr N struggled to repay the loan and entered a debt management plan before this
happened. So, I dont think its appropriate in these circumstances for Halifax to remove the
loan information from Mr Ns credit file and I so Im not directing it to do that.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I am upholding Mr Ns complaint against Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman