DRN-3402494
The complaint
Mr S complains because AWP P&C SA (AWP) hasnt paid a claim under his travel 
insurance policy for a holiday that was cut short. 
What happened
Mr S held an annual travel insurance policy, provided by AWP.
Mr S was on holiday abroad when the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office 
(FCDO, formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but 
essential travel to the country he was visiting, due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. On 23 March 2020, the FCDO advised all British travellers abroad to return to the UK.
Mr S therefore booked and paid for a new flight back to the UK earlier than planned, and his 
original return flight was subsequently cancelled by his airline. Mr S made a claim for his 
financial losses under his policy with AWP.
When Mr S didnt receive a response from AWP, he brought a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said she thought it would be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances for AWP to treat Mr Ss claim as covered under the 
curtailment section of his policy. AWP didnt reply to our investigators opinion, so Mr Ss 
complaint has been referred to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance (ICOBS) which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator 
also highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint. 
The policy documentation
Page 2 of the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), which summarises the cover 
available under Mr Ss policy with AWP, says:
Where am I covered? 
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Travel Advice 
Unit of the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health 
Organisation has advised against travel, unless agreed otherwise with the insurer.
The policy terms and conditions, at pages 13 and 14 under the heading General exclusions, 
say:
The insurer shall not pay (unless agreed in writing by or on behalf of the insurer) for 
any claim directly or indirectly caused by, or arising or resulting from, or in connection 
with: 
10. You travelling to a country, specific area or event to which the Travel Advice unit 
of the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health Organisation 
has advised against travel, unless agreed by or on behalf of the insurer. 
The Schedule of cover set out on page 4 of Mr Ss policy terms and conditions says that 
AWP provides cover of up to £3,000 in the event of curtailment of a trip, subject to the 
individual sections of cover. 
Page 18 of the policy terms and conditions, under the heading Section D  Cancellation or 
curtailment sets out the cover available if a policyholder has to come home early from their 
trip. These say AWP will pay for certain non-refundable unused costs if a trip is curtailed for 
one of the following reasons: 
1 The death, accidental bodily injury, illness, compulsory quarantine on the orders of 
a treating doctor, redundancy that qualifies for payment under current redundancy 
legislation, cancellation of leave for British Forces, police or government security 
staff, summoning to jury service or witness attendance in a court of you or your 
travelling companion. 
2 The death, serious injury or illness of, 
a a close relative, or 
b the person with whom you intend to reside at the holiday or journey destination, or 
c a dependent business partner; of you or your travelling companion which 
necessitates the presence of the person concerned. 
3 Hijack. 
4 Adverse weather conditions making it impossible for you to travel to initial point of 
departure at commencement of outward journey. 
5 Major damage or burglary at your home or place of business which at the request 
of an emergency service requires your presence.
Ive thought about the reason why Mr S cut short his trip. Based on the evidence Ive seen 
Im satisfied that this was because of the FCDO advice to return to the UK due to the 
coronavirus pandemic.
This isnt a reason which is covered under the terms and conditions of the curtailment 
section of Mr Ss policy, as it isnt a specific or listed insured event. Ive also reviewed the 
remaining sections of Mr Ss policy, but I dont think he held any cover which would pay a 
benefit in the circumstances he found himself in. This means Mr Ss claim isnt covered 
under the terms and conditions of his policy with AWP. 
Whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
I have an overriding remit to make a decision based on what I think is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of a case. Ive taken into account the relevant law and industry 
guidelines and I dont think a strict interpretation of the policy terms and conditions leads to a 
fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case. When Mr S travelled abroad, the FCDO wasnt advising against travel to his destination. So, 
Im satisfied that Mr S didnt travel against FCDO advice. However, while Mr S was abroad, 
the FCDO not only advised against all but essential travel to his destination, but also advised 
all British travellers who were abroad at the time to return to the UK. 
The policy exclusion outlined on pages 13 and 14 of the terms and conditions excludes 
cover under any section of the policy if a policyholder travels to a country against FCDO 
advice. 
While Mr S didnt travel against FCDO advice, if hed remained abroad until 25 April 2020 as 
planned, hed have been doing so against FCDO advice. 
Based on the evidence available to me, and in the absence of any submissions to the 
contrary from AWP, I think the policy exclusion on pages 13 and 14 of Mr Ss policy means 
its more likely than not that Mr S wouldnt have been covered by the policy terms and 
conditions at all if hed remained abroad to finish his trip. 
But, under the terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy, curtailment of a trip due to changes in 
FCDO guidance also isnt covered. This means Mr S was left in a situation where he likely 
had no cover if he remained abroad to continue with his trip, but he also had no cover if he 
cut short his trip. 
I dont think this was made sufficiently clear to Mr S in his policy documentation. I think Mr S 
would need to have read the full policy terms and conditions in order to understand that this 
set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think this information was brought to his 
attention in a prominent and transparent way. So, I dont think the combined effect of the 
policy terms were made sufficiently clear to him. 
I think this created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr S and AWP. I 
think its unlikely Mr S would have purchased this policy if he had realised there was no 
cover if FCDO guidance changed after he bought the policy and/or commenced his trip. And, 
Im satisfied that travel insurance policies which did cover curtailment claims arising from 
changes to FCDO advice were available on the market at the time Mr S bought this policy in 
April 2019. So, I think its likely Mr S would have been able to buy alternative insurance 
which did cover the circumstances he ultimately found himself in. 
I therefore think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for AWP to accept Mr 
Ss claim outside of a strict application of the policy terms and conditions.
I understand AWP didnt provide Mr S with a response to his claim, which was made in May 
2020. Even taking into account the exceptional and unprecedented situation which Covid-19 
presented to the travel insurance industry, I think this was unreasonable on the part of AWP. 
However, I have no power to punish a business through my awards, and any failure by AWP 
to engage with this service isnt something which I can take into account when making my 
decision about Mr Ss complaint. Overall, Im satisfied that a direction to AWP to now assess 
Mr Ss claim under his policy provides a remedy to Mr Ss complaint which is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
I direct AWP P&C SA to treat Mr Ss claim as covered under the curtailment section of his 
policy. 
AWP P&C SA should therefore assess Mr Ss claim under the remaining terms and 
conditions of his policy, taking into account any applicable policy excess and/or policy limit. My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ss complaint against AWP P&C SA and I direct it to put things right in the 
way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman