DRN-3132978
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr H and Ms H hold with Ulster Bank Ltd. There are two 
main thrusts to the complaint; these are:
the mortgage was mis-sold at the outset in 1992; and
Ulster is charging interest on arrears, which Mr H and Ms H say is illegal.
What happened
The complaint was started initially by Mr H on his own. Ms H joined it later when we 
explained that our rules require all eligible complainants to participate in a complaint.
In a recent jurisdiction decision, I explained why my remit to consider this complaint was 
limited to the charging of interest on arrears since January 2014. All other aspects of the 
complaint are time-barred under our rules. I gave both parties the opportunity to make their 
final comments pending my consideration of the merits of the case. Both have already 
responded, so theres no reason for me to delay my determination of the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. 
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal 
alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customers to resolve their 
differences. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it changes the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most of what Mr H has said following my jurisdiction decision is to continue to argue his 
belief that we can consider the charging of interest on arrears since it began, not just since 
January 2014. Im now deciding the merits of the complaint, not revisiting my jurisdiction to 
do so, but as Ill show in due course, the outcome is the same whether I go back to 2008 or 
just to 2014. 
Mr H continues to argue that the court ruling in 2014 about how certain lenders had treated 
mortgage arrears when setting monthly repayments means that charging interest on arrears 
that have not been capitalised is illegal and criminal. 
Ive already explained in the jurisdiction decision that my remit is to consider whether the 
business has acted fairly and reasonably, not whether it has broken the law, but I can 
provide some context on the rulings relevance to the complaint in front of me. 
I remember the ruling Mr H is talking about. It dealt with how lenders in a specific banking 
group recalculated the monthly payments on mortgages that were in arrears. In essence, it 
found that in some cases, lenders had calculated the contractual monthly instalment in such 
as way that any arrears would be repaid alongside the principal debt over the remaining 
term. 
Thats what happens when arrears are capitalised; what the court found was that lenders 
had, in effect, capitalised arrears by default, but were still treating those arrears as 
outstanding. The ruling concluded that asking borrowers to make further monthly 
contribution to bring down the arrears was, in effect, asking them to repay the arrears twice; 
thats what led to reports of double-billing. 
But the ruling dealt solely with how monthly repayments were calculated on mortgages in 
arrears; it said nothing about how interest was charged on mortgages in arrears. Also, 
Ulster Bank isnt even a member of the banking group to which the ruling applied; its part of 
an entirely different corporate entity. So the ruling can have no bearing on the outcome of 
the complaint in any event. 
When deciding the merits of the complaint about interest charging, my reference point is the 
mortgage contract. In that context, the complaint is rather more straightforward than its been 
made to look. Indeed, I think Ulsters final response was less clear than it could have been.
The contract terms allow Ulster to charge interest on the outstanding debt; if the mortgage is 
in arrears, the arrears are part of the debt and therefore attract interest. The contract makes 
no distinction between arrears which have been capitalised and those which havent; either 
way, they are part of the outstanding debt. For the purposes of calculating interest, arrears 
are treated exactly the same way whether they have been capitalised or not. I know Mr H 
and Ms H wont agree with my conclusion, but there really is nothing further I can say.
Mr H and Ms H dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
Ulster will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a 
court might impose, Mr H and Ms Hs right to take legal action against Ulster over what they 
say is illegal behaviour wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of their. 
Meanwhile, if they believe a crime has been committed, thats a matter to refer to the police. 
But if Mr H and Ms H are considering doing either of those things, I would strongly 
recommend they get specialist legal advice first.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 November 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman