DRN-2004181
The complaint
Ms A has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a mortgage payment 
protection (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Ms A took out the PPI at around the same time as arranging her mortgage over the phone. 
This would have been towards the end of 2001 with the mortgage and PPI policy going live 
in February 2002.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms A disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Ms As complaint and Ill explain why.
Barclays no longer has any paperwork from the sale, which is not surprising given how long 
ago it took place. However, it does make the complaint more difficult to decide. In reaching 
my decision I have considered the evidence that we do have, as well as what I consider is 
most likely to have happened.
Ms A says she was led to believe that the PPI was a compulsory part of the mortgage. From 
what we know of Barclays sales processes at the time, the PPI was normally presented as 
optional. I havent seen anything to persuade me that something different happened in this 
case.
Although Barclays doesnt have Ms As actual forms, it has provided samples of the sorts of 
forms that were in use at the time. The mortgage application form has a section for PPI and 
asks an applicant whether or not they are interested in taking out the policy. If someone 
expresses interest, they were then sent a PPI application form. The covering letter says that 
if an applicant wants to accept cover then they should complete the acceptance form and 
return it in the pre-paid envelope. Within the form, an applicant had to provide certain details, 
including specifying the amount of benefit they required, up to a maximum of 125% of the 
gross monthly mortgage payment.
Barclays has provided a screenshot of a contact note dated 15 December 2001. It is clear 
from this that Ms A had completed the application form but had made a mistake in relation to 
the amount of cover she could have. The note says: Benefit of £186 for Applicant 1. Spoke 
to Ms A re this as she had put benefit amount of £304. Explained MPPI to her and she opted 
for 100% benefit.So Ms A originally wanted more cover than she was able to have under the policy. And its 
clear that a conversation took place to explain to her the maximum benefit available.
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Ms As recollection of events 
has faded. Overall, based on the available evidence, I think that Ms A would have known 
that she had a choice about taking out PPI. It seems to me that she probably decided to buy 
it, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers doing so.
Barclays didnt advise Ms A to buy the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her 
needs. But it did need to provide her with enough information for her to be able to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for her.
I think Ms A would have known something about the policy  that it would cover her 
mortgage repayments if she was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment 
 because I dont think shed have decided to take it out without knowing anything at all 
about it. 
Ms A would have received some sick pay from her job. But the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Ms A would have received full pay for. 
Ms A has said that she had some savings. But having the policy would have allowed her to 
retain these or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that Barclays didnt provide as much information as it should have about the 
policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Ms A wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think she had an interest in the cover and decided to buy it, I dont think 
that further information would have caused her to change her mind.
This means that Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms A. But 
Barclays has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms A because: 
 
When the policy was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms A about 
that. Because Barclays didnt tell Ms A, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Barclays has offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms A.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Ms A any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. It should do this now if it hasnt already 
done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
Carole ClarkOmbudsman