DRN-4326916
The complaint
Mr B complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with
Blue Motor Finance Ltd, who Ill call BMFL.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in August of this year. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Im not currently expecting to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMFL, who are also the supplier
of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into
account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr B. The car here was about
seven years old and had completed about 91,700 miles.
Mr B has provided photographs of the extensive rust, bubbling, and paint peel, present on
the front wings of his car. He took receipt of the vehicle in October 2021 and complained to
BMFL about the rust about 16 months later. As Mr B had the car for some time before he
reported the issues I think, and the relevant legislation would suggest, that the onus is on
him to demonstrate the rust was developing when the car was supplied to him, and the car
was therefore of unsatisfactory quality.
Mr B has provided a written statement from a garage he took the car to. The mechanic
explained:
Upon examination the car is suffering from extreme corrosion of the two front wings and
paint peel/bubbling, corrosion on rear wheel arches.
In our opinion this is not in keeping with a car of this age and mileage.
Peugeot give a very generous 7 year anti-corrosion warranty on their cars from new and this
vehicle is only a couple of years out of this warranty, we would not expect to see this amount
of corrosion on a car of this age to the extent that this vehicle is showing.
We would therefore theorise that the car has been very poorly painted at some point in the
last 2-3 years, there is no evidence of any damage repair but the front wings are corroded
very badly.
We do not think the car is on its original paint, there is evidence of paint work being carried
out, over spray on rubbers and paint colour mismatch.
Its our opinion that this vehicle has been poorly painted and prepared for sale on the
cheap.
Im not persuaded that evidence is sufficient to demonstrate the car wasnt of satisfactory
quality when supplied. I say that because:
The report isnt independent as the garage goes on to provide a quote for the work
and is clearly seeking to benefit from Mr Bs custom.
The car was more than seven years old when Mr B complained about the rust. I think
the presence of some rust on the car could therefore be considered normal.
Ive not seen sufficient evidence to suggest the extent of the rust is abnormal or that 
it would suggest the car hadnt been sufficiently durable.
I dont think the presence of a repair on the car when it was supplied would
necessarily make the car of unsatisfactory quality, and while I accept that if that
repair was of poor quality it may make the car rust earlier than would be expected, I
dont think I have sufficient expert evidence to suggest that was the case here.
Mr B lives in a coastal area in Scotland where I think its fair to say his car would be
exposed to salt sea air and adverse weather conditions likely to advance the
formation of rust.
If Mr B wishes to commission an independent expert report I will allow time for that to be
completed and considered. If the report provides sufficient information to persuade me to
uphold his complaint I will order the business to refund the cost of that report. But, on the
basis of the information I currently have, Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
Further evidence and/or comments
BMFL provided a copy of some of their system notes.
Mr B also replied. He was unhappy and didnt think Id been fair when he said Id dismissed 
his report; he said hed gone to a great deal of time and effort to obtain it. He thought my 
comments on him staying in a coastal part of Scotland and salty air causing the car to
corrode faster were ridiculous, and he explained that he lived nowhere near the coast. He 
said I hadnt gone into enough detail about the poor paint job and the subsequent rusting 
that he said had been touched up by the dealer, which he said wasnt normal. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Bs frustration, but I also note that he hasnt provided an independent report 
that I suggested was necessary in this case. The address we have for Mr B suggests he 
lives about ten miles from the coast, that seems to me close enough for the effects of the 
sea air to be a reasonable consideration. But, even if I am wrong about that, it was only one 
of the considerations I set out in my provisional decision. I dont agree that I dismissed       
Mr Bs report. It adds some evidence, but it wouldnt be fair to suggest it is independent 
and, on balance, I still dont think I have sufficient evidence to fairly suggest the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman