DRN-3375263
The complaint
Mr Es complained that TSB Bank plc took money from his account without first notifying him 
 which caused his account to become overdrawn.
What happened
Mr E went to a TSB branch to withdraw cash from his account over the counter.  He 
completed his transaction and left the branch.  But the counter staff dealing with him failed to 
close his account properly and, when the next customer deposited a cheque, this was 
incorrectly deposited in Mr Es account.  
Mr E says he was expected his wages to be paid, so didnt notice the incorrect cheque credit 
and continued to make payments from his account.  
A few days later, the customer whod paid in the cheque asked TSB why it wasnt showing in 
their account.  TSB investigated and found it had been wrongly credited Mr Es account.  To 
correct the mistake, they reversed the cheque credit.  But they didnt tell Mr E theyd be 
doing that.  The reversal resulted in Mr Es account going overdrawn.
Mr E complained to TSB about what had happened.  TSB investigated and arranged for an 
overdraft while they did this.
TSB wrote to Mr E with their findings.  They confirmed the cheque had been paid into Mr Es 
account due to a staff error.  And they said they should have told him what had happened.  
But they said the wages Mr E was expecting were paid in two days later, so he would have 
known the cheque credit wasnt his wages.  And they said they werent responsible for       
Mr Es overdraft, as its for customers to monitor their accounts.
TSB apologised and sent Mr E a cheque for £75 with their response.  Mr E didnt think that 
was enough to compensate him for what had happened and brought his complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator considered it and concluded TSB didnt need to do any more than theyd 
done already to resolve it.  He agreed that TSB should have notified Mr E returning the 
money to the right person would send him overdrawn.  But he thought that arranging a free 
overdraft and paying him £75 compensation was reasonable compensation for what had 
gone wrong.
Mr E didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Es complaint.  Ill explain why.
Theres no need for me to decide whether TSB made a mistake, as both parties agree they 
did.  So Ive focused on whether theyve done enough to compensate Mr E for that error.  To 
do that, Ive thought about to what extent each is responsible for the position Mr E found 
himself in.
TSB have said its the customers responsibility to check their account.  I agree.  Ive looked 
at Mr Es bank statements in the months leading up to the cheque being credited to his 
account.  The account was used on a daily basis and appears to have been well managed, 
with deposits being made which kept it in credit.   And Ive seen from TSBs notes that Mr E 
complained to them the day after the credit was corrected.  
So Im satisfied Mr E monitored his account regularly.  He hasnt disputed he knew about the 
deposit.  But he says he was due to be paid around this time  so he thought the cheque 
deposit was actually his wages.
Ive thought about this.  And, while I dont think Mr E would necessarily have checked how 
the payment was made, Im satisfied he would have known his account had been credited.  
And, because he monitored his account, I think its reasonable to say hed have known about 
the second credit two days later, because his balance more than doubled.
So, I think it was clear that Mr E had received two credits within a day or two  one for his 
wages and a second one.  Contacting the bank at that point could have resolved the 
problem without sending him into an overdraft.  
Instead, Mr E spent the whole of the two deposits over the following five days. TSB arent 
responsible for him doing that.  So, while I agree TSB shouldnt have taken the money from 
his account without notifying Mr E, its not fair for me to say theyre responsible for him going 
overdrawn.
And on that basis, I think the £75 payment made to Mr E, and providing a free overdraft 
facility while he repaid the money, is reasonable to compensate him for what went wrong.  
And I dont think TSB need to do anything more to resolve his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Es complaint about TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman