DRN-3989954
The complaint
Mr T1, Mr T2 and Mr T3 complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) 
(Virgin Money) made an entry about them on the National Hunter database in connection 
with a joint mortgage application.
What happened
Mr T1, Mr T2 and Mr T3 are brothers. They applied for a new buy to let (BTL) mortgage 
with Virgin Money in 2020. Virgin Money declined the application and left markers against 
them on the National Hunter database. The National Hunter database is a cross-industry 
fraud prevention database which allows financial services providers to share relevant 
information, subject to safeguards.
Virgin Money said it hadnt done anything wrong, and that it wasnt prepared to remove the 
markers.
Our investigator looked into the matter. He said Virgin Money applied the markers because it 
had concerns about the information provided in Mr T1, Mr T2 and Mr T3s mortgage 
application.
On the mortgage application form Mr T3 declared that he received 50% of the net taxable 
profit from the limited company (that Ill refer to as J) he ran with his brothers  that 
reflected his 50% shareholding in the company.
That contrasted with the information set out in an accountants certificate dated 22 
December 2020 that Mr T3s accountant sent Virgin Money. That certificate showed that Mr 
T3s shareholding in J was 33% in the years ending 30 November 2018 and 2019.
Mr T3s accountant then sent Virgin Money another accountants certificate dated 29 
December 2020. That showed that Mr T3s shareholding in J was 50% in the years ending 
30 November 2018 and 2019. Mr T3s accountant apologised for incorrectly sending the first 
certificate. He said that was sent because his staff made a mistake. Mr T3 thinks its unfair 
that he and his brothers should be penalised for a mistake made by his accountant that has 
been explained. He thinks Virgin Money should have asked him and his accountant more 
questions before applying the markers.
Our investigator said that the records on Companies House show that Mr T3 owned 50% of 
the shares in J as of 1 November 2017. He said that Virgin Money was also concerned 
about Mr T3s deposit. Mr T3 was due to pay a deposit of £205,230 to get the mortgage.
When he applied for the mortgage he said (on the application form) that the source of the 
deposit was dividends and savings. However, when Virgin Money queried this, Mr T3 said 
the deposit came from gifts from family and dividends from his business.
Our investigator asked Mr T3 about the deposit. Mr T3 told him that he was self-employed so 
he got his income from J though dividends. He said that at the time of application he thought 
he had enough savings to pay the deposit. Later he realised there was a shortfall of around 
£30,000, so he got £30,000 from his sister and her husband as a gift to help him pay the 
deposit. Mr T3 says he was upfront about this with Virgin Money  he sent Virgin Money a 
letter about that in January 2021.
Our investigator considered everything that had been said and provided in this complaint. 
But overall he thought Virgin Money had reasonable grounds to add markers to the fraud 
prevention database. So he didnt think it would be fair to ask it to remove those markers 
now. However, he did say that he didnt think the reasons Virgin Money used had been 
accurate when it reported that it had declined the mortgage and applied the markers 
because of conflicting salary details. He suggested that Virgin Money amended those 
reasons but Virgin Money declined to do so.
Mr T1, Mr T2 and Mr T3 remained unhappy and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman, so it was passed to me to decide.
For completeness l said that it appeared that Virgin Money added another marker about Mr 
T3 on the National Hunter database in early 2022. That marker is being considered 
separately by the Financial Ombudsman Service in another complaint, so I didnt consider it.
My first provisional decision 
In my first provisional decision I said:
When Mr T1, Mr T2 and Mr T3 applied for the mortgage in late 2020 Virgin Money 
considered the information and evidence it received in connection with mortgage application 
and carried out underwriting checks to try to confirm the accuracy of what it was told and to 
decide whether it wanted to lend. I think its worth saying here that there was no obligation 
on Virgin Money to lend money to Mr T1, Mr T2 and Mr T3. It wasnt obliged to give reasons 
for a refusing to do so either.
When making a referral to the National Hunter database, Virgin Money had to have 
reasonable grounds for doing so. It didnt have to disclose the detail of those reasons to 
Mr T1, Mr T2 and Mr T3.
Having weighed up all the evidence and arguments here very carefully, I can understand 
why Virgin Money had concerns about the information it had been given in connection with 
the mortgage application. So I understand why it took the commercial decision it did to 
decline to lend to Mr T1, Mr T2 and Mr T3. However, Im not persuaded that Virgin Money 
had enough evidence of fraud to put markers about Mr T1, Mr T2 and Mr T3 on the National 
Hunter database. Ill explain why.
I can see that Mr T3s accountant has explained why incorrect information was originally 
provided by him/his office in relation to this application. Im conscious that the accountants 
certificate dated 29 December 2020 (the accountants certificate Mr T3s accountant said 
was correct) sets out the income Mr T3 received from J in the years ending 30 November 
2018 and 2019. Ive considered that information along with the information Mr T3 has sent 
us from HMRC.
In the circumstances, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for Virgin Money to add the 
markers it did on to the National Hunter database solely because it had been sent 
inconsistent information by Mr T3s accountant. I think theres a reasonable explanation of 
that and I dont think its evidence Mr T3 made a fraudulent application.
I can see that Virgin Money also had concerns about Mr T3s deposit when it considered the 
mortgage application.Mr T3 has told us that he thought he had enough savings to pay the deposit at the time of 
application. But he later realised he was short of around £30,000, so he asked his family for 
the money. It appears that Mr T3s sister and brother in law provided that money. Mr T3 sent 
Virgin Money a letter about that in early 2021  around the time Virgin Money had put the 
markers on the National Hunter database.
I think £30,000 is a significant sum for someone to make a mistake about in connection with 
a mortgage application and I can understand why Virgin Money was concerned about that. 
However, I dont think that in itself/that along with the accountants initial mistake was 
enough to say that it was fair and reasonable for Virgin Money to add the markers on to the 
National Hunter database.
Virgin Money has told the Financial Ombudsman about other concerns it had about Mr T1, 
Mr T2 and Mr T3  and in the case of Mr T1 and Mr T2, these are the only concerns it has 
about them individually. In particular, it was concerned about the possible use it thought they 
might put the property to. Ive carefully considered what Virgin Money has said about this. 
But Im not persuaded that it has any evidence that amounts to more than assumptions. In 
the circumstances and having considered all the available evidence in this complaint Im not 
persuaded that Virgin Money has done enough to show me that it was justified putting the 
markers on the National Hunter database. So I think Virgin Money should remove the 
markers.
Mr T3 has said that he has three buy-to-let properties, one residential property and two 
successful businesses with his brothers. But at the moment he hasnt set out what (if any) 
financial loss he has suffered as a result of the markers. I invite him, and Mr T1 and Mr T2,to 
do so now in response to this decision.
For completeness I will also say here that there has been some discussion about the 
reasons Virgin Money gave for applying the markers on the National Hunter database. Mr T3 
and our investigator have talked about Virgin Money applying the markers because of 
conflicting salary details. However, I can see that although conflicting salary details have 
been referred to, the overall reason for the markers is recorded as inconsistency.
If Virgin Money has more information it wants to share with me to explain why it still thinks it 
was justified putting the markers on the National Hunter database for this reason it should do 
so in response to this decision.
The responses to my first provisional decision
Virgin Money sent me information I had already considered before I issued my provisional 
decision.
Mr T3 said he was very pleased to receive my provisional decision. He said his life has been 
turned upside down because of the marker. He said his health has been deeply affected. He 
has been unable to concentrate on running the businesses properly, and family life has been 
affected too.
He sent me a lot of additional information about the impact of the markers that I considered 
in my second provisional decision.
My second provisional decision 
In my second provisional decision I said:
In relation to the information Virgin Money sent me I remain of the view set out in my provisional decision. I accept that Virgin Money had concerns about Mr T1, Mr T2 and Mr 
T3. I can see that it had concerns about the possible use it thought they might put the 
property to and understand why it took the commercial decision not to lend to them. But Im 
still not persuaded that it has any evidence that amounts to more than assumptions. I am not 
persuaded that the evidence shows that Virgin Money had reasonable grounds for the 
National Hunter markers.
So I remain of the view that Virgin Money should remove the markers.
I will now turn to the information Mr T3 has told us about the impact of the markers. Mr T3 
has told us that the declined application and markers meant that he and his brothers werent 
able to buy a property for £665,000 that is now valued at £964,000. He says that means they 
made a loss of £299,000.
I dont underestimate Mr T3s strength of feeling about that, but Im not persuaded there was 
any guarantee that save for the markers Mr T1, T2 and T3 would have successfully bought 
the property in question for £665,000, and then been able to sell it to make £299,000 profit.
Mr T3 has sent us estate agent screenshots showing how the estimated price of the property 
has risen. He has also told us about their excellent credit scores. But even if I were to say 
that it was likely that Mr T1, T2 and T3 would have successfully bought the property in 
question in 2021 (which isnt clear) I cant be certain what price they would have paid for the 
property; what Mr T1, T2 and T3s purchase and sale costs would be; their maintenance, tax 
and mortgage costs while they owned the property; what price they would actually sell it for 
etc. So Im not persuaded they made a £299,000 loss on than property. I think any loss they 
think they made on that property is speculative.
Mr T3 went on to say that the markers meant that Mr T1, T2 and T3 havent been able to 
purchase any other BTL commercial properties since the markers were put on their credit 
files as they were concerned that other lenders wouldnt lend to them. He said their target 
was to purchase 2-3 properties every year, so theyve made huge losses. Again, I 
understand the point Mr T3 has made, and accept that its likely that the markers would have 
made it much more difficult to secure lending on properties. But, even if there were no 
markers on their credit files, theres no guarantee that they would have successfully bought 
other BTL or commercial properties in this period. Even if they would have been able to do 
that, theres no way of quantifying what  if any  Mr T1, T2 and T3s losses would have 
been.
Mr T3 has also told us that as a result of the markers and Virgin Money declining their 
product transfer application for one of their BTL properties in early 2022, the interest rate 
they were paying on the mortgage on that property rose from 1.73% (fixed) to 7.44% 
variable. He says that has meant that interest repayments went up by more than £6,000 for 
an 11-month period. Again I understand the point Mr T3 has made, but that application is 
being considered separately by the Financial Ombudsman Service in another complaint, so 
it wouldnt be appropriate for me to consider that here.
Finally, Mr T3 has told us that the markers have had a profound impact on Mr T1, T2 and T3 
for the last two years. He says they have had sleepless nights, have been struggling to 
concentrate on anything freely and are terrified to make any decision. Im very sorry to hear 
that and can understand why the markers have had such an impact on Mr T1, T2 and T3s 
lives given that they are in the business of buying and maintaining BTL properties.
Taking this matter as a whole, I think that its likely that the markers had a substantial impact 
on Mr T1, T2 and T3s ability to carry on some of their business activities (namely buying 
new BTL properties) since the markers were applied in December 2020. I accept that the markers also had an impact on Mr T1, T2 and T3s health and wellbeing. However, it is very 
hard to quantify the overall impact on Mr T1, T2 and T3. So I think its fair and reasonable for 
Virgin Money to pay Mr T1, T2 and T3 £3,000 compensation in total (£1,000 each) to reflect 
the impact of the markers on them. That amount is in line with the redress the Financial 
Ombudsman Service awards in circumstances that have had a substantial impact on 
consumers.
The responses to my second provisional decision
Virgin Money accepted the redress I recommended in my second provisional decision. It has 
confirmed that it has paid Mr T1, T2 and T3 £3,000 compensation (£1,000 each) and has 
contacted National Hunter so that the markers can be removed.
Mr T3 responded to say that he is happy with the redress I suggested in my second 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reconsidered what I said in my second provisional decision with reference to the 
responses Ive received from Virgin Money and Mr T3.
Im pleased to hear that both Virgin Money and Mr T3 think that the redress I recommended 
in my second provisional decision is a fair and reasonable way to resolve the complaint. So I 
see no reason to depart from that redress.
Putting things right
To put matters right Virgin Money should remove the markers it applied against Mr T1, Mr T2 
and Mr T3s names in December 2020 on the National Hunter database and pay Mr T1, Mr 
T2 and Mr T3 £3000 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as 
Virgin Money) should remove the markers it applied against Mr T1, Mr T2 and Mr T3s 
names in December 2020 on the National Hunter database.
In addition it should pay Mr T1, Mr T2 and Mr T3 £3000 in total to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused them. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T, Mr T and Mr 
T to accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman