DRN-2707467
The complaint
 Mr S has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) delayed processing his 
application for a further advance, and as a result he suffered financial loss which he is 
asking the bank to reimburse
What happened
 On 18 June 2020 Mr S applied to Halifax for a £32,000 further advance on his mortgage to 
buy a static caravan for holiday rental. 
Mr S has told us that at the time of his application he had discussions with Halifax about the 
timescale for completion. He says he was told the application was straightforward and 
should take around 10 to 15 days to complete. So, based on what Halifax said, he began 
taking holiday bookings for the caravan. Mr S took five bookings altogether  the first from 
27 July to 2 August 2020 and the final booking from 24 to 30 August 2020, each week 
costing £750.   
Mr S receive his mortgage offer from Halifax on 8 July 2020. 
Mr S felt the whole process took too long.  Hes told us that because of the delay, all the 
bookings that hed secured were cancelled by his customers  which meant he lost the 
rental income he wouldve received. 
Halifax didnt think it was responsible for material delays in the application process. But it felt 
the service it provided to Mr S during that process was poor, for which it paid Mr S £150 
compensation. However, it declined Mr Ss claim for loss of rental income because it felt 
Mr S shouldnt have entered into rental agreements before being offered a mortgage. Mr S 
didnt agree with Halifaxs conclusions and referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think there were protracted delays in the application process either. 
But she did agree there were incidences of poor service. For those, she thought the £150 
Halifax had already paid Mr S was fair and reasonable compensation. The investigator didnt 
think Halifax should compensate Mr S for the loss of rental income, as Mr S made these 
arrangements before he was offered a mortgage.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
           
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator and Ill 
explain why.
The delay in processing the application 
We would expect Halifax to deal with Mr Ss further advance application in a timely manner. 
Halifax has said it would expect to compete applications of this type in around 14 working 
days. That timeframe doesnt seem to me to be unreasonable. 
Mr Ss application was made on 18 June 2020. He was offered a mortgage on 8 July. So, 
the application was completed within 14 working days and therefore did fall within Halifaxs 
timeframe. 
I appreciate Mr Ss point that he was told at the start of the application it would take 10  15 
days. Its not clear whether Halifax had made the distinction as to whether this would be 
business or calendar days. In the round, however, I agree with the investigator that there 
were no protracted delays in the application process. 
But thats not to say things couldnt have progressed even more quickly than they actually 
did. Mr S has told us that when he contacted Halifax on or around 3 July 2020, at that point 
his application didnt seem to have progressed a great deal. 
The evidence Ive seen from Halifax seems to bear that out. It would appear that after 
receiving details of Mr Ss income and expenditure on 26 June 2020, very little else 
happened until 6 July  after Mr S had been in contact a few days earlier. So even though 
the application was completed within Halifaxs timeframe, I can understand why Mr S would 
have been frustrated that for a few days there was little or no action on his application. 
But Halifax has recognised it provided poor service to Mr S and has paid him £150 in 
recognition of that. In the circumstances I find the compensation it paid was fair and 
reasonable for any upset or inconvenience the slight delay mightve caused Mr S. 
The loss of rental income 
I appreciate Mr S doesnt think the compensation Halifax has paid him has gone far enough 
because he believes it should extend to the rental income he lost from the July and August 
bookings that were cancelled. I dont agree. 
I understand from Mr S that after speaking to Halifax on or around 3 July 2020 and realising 
there hadnt been much progress on his application, he contacted his customers to let them 
know the position. They in turn cancelled the bookings because, according to Mr S, it 
seemed to them that their holidays were in doubt. 
But Mr S began taking bookings for the caravan even though he was given no firm date by 
which the application would be completed  or indeed that it was guaranteed to be approved 
at all. So, I think he did so at his own risk. Furthermore, and perhaps more importantly, Ive 
seen no evidence Halifax knew or was made aware at any point that Mr S intended taking 
bookings for the caravan and that it was critical that the application be completed by a 
particular date in order to avoid cancellation. 
For these reasons I am not persuaded that Halifax is responsible for the booking 
cancellations and the loss of rental income that resulted from them. 
    
My final decision
  For the reasons Ive given above, I do not uphold this complaint, insofar as Im satisfied that 
the compensation of £150 already paid by Bank of Scotland plc is fair and reasonable. I 
simply leave it to Mr S to decide if he wants to accept that in full and final settlement of his 
complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman