DRN-2859339
The complaint
Mr G complains that a vehicle he hired, via a hire agreement with LeasePlan UK Limited 
trading as Network, wasnt of satisfactory quality. He says that because he was unable to 
work due to the faults with vehicle, he was unable to keep up payments and LeasePlan UK 
Limited then unfairly terminated the agreement.
What happened
In July 2012 Mr G arranged to hire a new van via a five-year hire agreement with LeasePlan. 
The van was delivered the following month.
Mr G says that in July 2013 the oil light in the van started to flash on the dashboard and so 
he took it to an approved garage where the oil and filter were replaced. The garage also 
reset the service lamp. 
Mr G says this didnt fix the issue with the oil lamp which continued to flash. He says he 
reported it again in November 2013 when the service light was again reset. 
Mr G says that the problem with the oil light persisted and he returned the van to the 
approved garage twice in February 2014, when a software update was undertaken as well 
as a forced regeneration of the DPF. At the second visit, a visual health-check was carried 
out and the garage noted that the oil pressure light was showing on the dash and said it 
required further investigation. 
Mr G says he was then told by the garage it wasnt able to assist further so he took the van 
to an independent garage. An oil pressure switch was repaired in March 2014, but Mr G 
says the problem with the oil light remained. He says that the van was not drivable due to 
the continuous flashing of the oil light and the vehicle losing power. Mr G says the van was 
off the road from February to August 2014. Mr G says that, as he wasnt able to use the van, 
he wasnt able to work which led to him being unable to make the payments under the 
agreement. 
A default notice was issued by LeasePlan to Mr G in October 2014, due to the number of 
missed payments under the agreement. As Mr G was unable to pay the arrears the 
agreement was subsequently terminated in November 2014, and the van collected. The van 
was later sold at auction and Mr G was invoiced for the outstanding balance due under the 
terms and conditions of the agreement.
Shortly after the agreement was terminated, Mr G received a recall notice for the van which 
had been issued by the manufacturer advising that the vehicle may have an issue with the 
oil pump which may not be to specification. The letter said that the oil pump would be 
replaced at no cost.
Mr G complained to LeasePlan in July 2020 that, due to the issues he had with the van, he 
hadnt been able to work which meant he had been unable to make the payments under the 
agreement. He said this in turn had negatively affected his credit record. He said that, as he 
had been supplied with a faulty van, it was unfair for him to have to make payments. He 
requested that LeasePlan reimbursed his payments as well as paying him compensation for 
having to deal with the faulty van.
Due to the amount of time that had passed LeasePlan says it wasnt able to investigate Mr 
Gs complaint. It didnt issue a final response letter in the circumstances.
Mr G brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Gs 
complaint should be upheld. She said that with regard to the satisfactory quality of the van, 
this was outside of our time limits to investigate and Mr G hadnt shown any exceptional 
circumstances to account for the delay in bringing his complaint. 
In regard to the termination of the agreement, our investigator said she didnt think 
LeasePlan had acted unfairly.
Mr G disagreed with our investigators view. He said that LeasePlan had accepted the van 
had been faulty and he hadnt raised his complaint too late. He said that LeasePlan had 
failed to answer his enquiries and hadnt treated him fairly when he fell behind in his 
payments. He said it hadnt discussed his options and had been rude to him.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Gs complaint has raised two issues, the quality of the van that was supplied under the 
hire agreement by LeasePlan and whether LeasePlan acted fairly when it terminated the 
agreement and required Mr G to pay the outstanding balance due under the agreements 
terms and conditions. However, in regard to the quality of the van, I first need to decide 
whether I can look at this part of Mr Gs complaint under our rules due to the amount of time 
that has passed.
Our rules, (the DISP rules, as set out in the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook) set out 
the procedures and requirements for this service to be able to consider a complaint. One of 
these requirements is that a complaint must be brought to this service within certain time 
limits (see DISP 2.8.2 R (2) (a) and (b)). This says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complaint refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(1) .
(2) More than:
(a) Six years after the event complained of or (if later)
(b) Three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
And if a complaint isnt brought within these specified time limits then the business needs to 
consent to us looking at it and, if a business doesnt consent to a late referral, then we arent 
able investigate unless the failure to comply was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
Mr G says that he has brought his complaint within our specified time limit but Im afraid 
looking at the evidence that I disagree with his view, and I shall explain why. 
Here, Mr Gs complaint is about the faults he experienced with the van and he says it wasnt 
of a satisfactory quality from the point of supply. Ive seen that he made his complaint to LeasePlan in July 2020 and then later to this service in or around November 2020. However, 
Ive also seen that he started to experience issues with the van in July 2013 when the oil 
warning light illuminated and that from February 2014, he says was unable to drive it any 
longer. This means that the faults with the van were present for more than six years before 
he made Mr G made his complaint to either LeasePlan or this service.
From the evidence, I think its reasonable to say Mr G would have been aware that he was 
experiencing repeated mechanical issues from the summer of 2013 and that he believed the 
faults all appeared to be linked to the illumination of the oil warning lamp. So, I think its fair 
to say that Mr G would have been aware he had cause for complaint about the van following 
the reported attempts to rectify the fault from the summer of 2013. 
Mr G says he is relying on the six-year period running from the receipt of the recall notice he 
received in November 2014. But I think its clear his complaint isnt about that notice, rather 
he is relying on that notice as being further evidence that the van had been faulty from the 
point of supply. Mr G has said it was the recall notice that he received in November 2014 
that made him aware that the van had been faulty, but the six years doesnt run from the 
date of being aware he had cause to complain. (see DISP 2.8.2 R (2)(b) set out above).
Mr G has said that LeasePlan didnt answer his enquiries and although, due to the amount of 
time that has passed, there arent any copies of phone calls made between Mr G and 
LeasePlan, it has been able to provide the notes made of the contact it had with Mr G since 
January 2013. And looking at these notes Ive seen that Mr G informed LeasePlan the van 
had been in the garage for three to four months in August 2014, but he didnt make a 
complaint about its quality or say why that was the case. This information appears to have 
been given by Mr G due to enquiries by LeasePlan as to why he had missed payments on 
his account. 
Mr G tells LeasePlan again in October 2014 that the van is off the road, but this was, as 
before, in response to enquiries about missing payments. Mr Gs has other contact with 
LeasePlan during 2014, 2015, 2018 and 2019 but this is all in regard to making payments to 
his account and not a complaint about the quality of the van.
Ive also seen that in October 2014 LeasePlan contacted the approved garage that had dealt 
with the van to see if it had any information as to why Mr G wasnt using it. The garage told 
LeasePlan it hadnt seen the vehicle since February 2014, and it hadnt been made aware of 
any problems since then. LeasePlan has noted that once Mr G books the van into the 
garage then it will be escalated to the Technical Customer Support Team to oversee. Mr G 
however didnt book the van in for work. I think in these circumstances that it was reasonable 
for LeasePlan took no further action.
Looking at these notes, Im satisfied that the first time Mr G made a complaint about the 
quality of the van that had been supplied by LeasePlan was July 2020. As, although he had 
said it was off the road previously, he didnt give any further details or complained that it was 
faulty. I also dont think Mr G disputes that he didnt make a complaint until July 2020, as he 
was relying on having six years to make his complaint from the recall notice received in 
November 2014. 
As Mr G has made a complaint to this service about an event that happened more than six 
years ago, I can only investigate if LeasePlan consents or if the failure to comply with the 
time limit was as a result of exceptional circumstances. Mr G has explained that in the time 
before he made his complaint he has suffered from poor health and he also says that his 
English wasnt very good, so he wanted that to improve before making a complaint. While I am sorry to hear that Mr G has had a difficult time, I havent seen anything which I could say 
were exceptional circumstances that led to the delay. I think its fair to say Mr G would have 
been able to bring his complaint about the quality of the van to both LeasePlan and this 
service before he did. Ive seen he was able to make contact with LeasePlan about the 
missing payments and the terminating of the agreement. The delay appears to have arisen 
because Mr G mistakenly relied on a six-year time limit running from November 2014.
Finally, Ive seen that LeasePlan hasnt agreed for this service to investigate anything that is 
more than six years old. So, I dont have its consent to investigate.
I therefore agree with our investigators view that Mr Gs complaint about the quality of the 
van is out of time and cant be investigated by this service. However, he has also made a 
complaint about the way LeasePlan handled his account and the arrears that built up. He 
says it acted unfairly by ending the agreement. And, as the terminating of the agreement is 
within six years of Mr Gs complaint, I can look at that part of his complaint. Though I can 
only look at the events from July 2014 which is within the six years of his complaint to 
LeasePlan about its handling of his account.
Looking at the notes provided by LeasePlan, Ive seen there was contact between it and Mr 
G over missing payments. An arrears letter was sent to him in July 2014 as hed missed both 
June and July payments. A further letter in August 2014 shows that the arrears had grown 
and in September 2014, due to the size of the arrears LeasePlan passed Mr Gs account to 
a third-party debt management company.
Mr G says he tried to make contact with LeasePlan but hasnt been able to provide me with 
evidence of that contact. LeasePlans notes show it tried to make contact with Mr G to 
discuss the situation but wasnt able to do so. In October 2014 Mr G spoke with LeasePlan 
and it recorded that he explained that a company hed worked for had held back wages, but 
he was going to a debt advice company to discuss his options. LeasePlan informed Mr G 
that a default notice had now been issued and its recorded that it raised the option of him 
terminating the agreement. LeasePlan has noted that Mr G said he didnt want to discuss 
anything until he had spoken with the debt advice company. Mr G then wrote to LeasePlan 
in November 2014 to say he was in financial difficulties. He made a payment of £50 towards 
arrears that were by then nearly £1,000.
As Mr G was unable to commit to an arrangement to clear the arrears LeasePlan decided to 
terminate the agreement as the default notice hadnt been remedied by him. The van was 
collected and sold at auction. The price fetched for the vehicle was off-set against the 
outstanding balance on Mr Gs account.
As Mr Gs account was at least three payments in arrears, and as he had said he was 
experiencing financial difficulties, then I think it was reasonable for LeasePlan to serve a 
default notice on him and, when that wasnt satisfied, terminate the agreement. This step 
prevented Mr G getting further into debt.
Mr G says he was spoken to rudely by LeasePlan and not told his options. I dont know what 
was said specifically to Mr G, but I think its more likely than not that LeasePlan did try and 
discuss the options with him. Mr G also took advice from a debt advice company, so I think 
its reasonable to say he was aware of the actions open to him. Looking at the evidence I 
dont think I can reasonably say LeasePlan acted unfairly by terminating the agreement.
So, for the reasons given, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. 
My final decisionAs set out above, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman