DRN-2451381
The complaint
Mr G complained that Countrywide Principal Services Limited (CPS) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a mortgage in 2009.
What happened
Mr G recalled speaking with a CPS representative at an estate agents office when arranging 
a mortgage to buy his new home in 2009. It looks like the PPI was likely taken out at around 
the same time the mortgage lending was arranged.
The policy protected Mr Gs mortgage monthly repayments in the event of redundancy.
Mr G said PPI was presented to him as a simple addition to his mortgage and a 
straightforward package with no complicated requirements. But he said that the policy 
requirements relating to fixed term contracts werent explained to him  and if that had 
happened, he wouldve looked for a better or more suitable policy. Hes unhappy because 
the insurer declined his claim for unemployment. 
Our adjudicator thought Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. Because CPS disagreed with 
the adjudicators opinion the complaint came to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
As things stand, I dont think I've seen enough to be able to say that CPS mis-sold PPI 
to Mr G. Ill explain why.
CPS wasnt the lender of the mortgage. And theres only limited information about 
how the PPI was sold to Mr G. So I have to look at all the available information and 
decide what I think is most likely. 
I think its likely that CPS made Mr G aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to 
have it.
Mr G says he bought the PPI at a meeting. Looking at what Mr G has told us he 
remembers about the sale, I think he understood that the advisor was just making a 
recommendation about PPI. 
And Ive taken into account the screenshots Ive seen from CPS that record the details of 
the sale, including the fact that Mr G took out redundancy cover only. 
I think this indicates that Mr G decided to take the PPI knowing it was up to him to say if 
he wanted any of the policy benefits and he chose the cover that reflected his wishes at 
the time.
CPS told us that it wouldve been an advised sale through one of its branches with its 
mortgage consultant. That means CPS not only had to give clear information so that 
Mr G could make an informed decision about taking the PPI but also CPS had to ensure 
its recommendation was suitable for Mr Gs particular circumstances.
Mr G told us his employers long term sickness cover was compliant with statutory 
regulations and he was entitled to a pay out in the event of redundancy based on his 
length of service. 
The PPI provided around £460 in monthly benefits for a cost of £18.51 per month. And it 
couldve paid out for up to 12 months. 
Thinking about Mr Gs circumstances at the time and bearing in mind the significant financial 
commitment hed made with the mortgage, I think there was a need for the benefit provided 
by the policy if he couldnt work. Although Mr G had a secure job where hed been working 
for almost 7 years this doesnt mean that PPI was unsuitable for his needs. 
The policy looks like it offered Mr G significantly better protection than he wouldve had if 
hed just relied on his workplace benefits. 
PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money he mightve got if hed lost his 
job, giving Mr G the useful extra benefit of some additional financial security in those 
circumstances.
And Mr G told us that he didnt have any other ways to make his mortgage repayments if he 
hadnt been able to work.
So I think Mr G wouldve had a use for the policy and that it was suitable for him taking 
into account the situation he was in at the time.  
Mr G was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions 
that applied.
There were some things the policy didnt cover and some particular requirements affecting 
being able to claim on the policy. Based on what hes said, when he signed up for the 
policy it doesnt look like Mr G was affected by any of the conditions limiting the PPIs 
main benefits. Hed been in long term permanent employment for almost 7 years and he 
couldve claimed on the policy for all the main benefits I think he wouldve expected at the 
time. So I dont think in these circumstances that knowing more about what the policy 
didnt cover wouldve put him off taking it out.
Mr Gs work situation changed some years later. He then worked on a series of fixed term 
contracts. 
Ive thought carefully about what this means for Mr Gs mis-sale complaint. 
I havent seen anything to make me think it likely that CPS explained the particular policy 
terms relating to fixed term contracts when it sold Mr G the policy in 2009. But this doesnt 
affect my overall view. 
I say this because, given his employment circumstances at the time (and which continued 
for a number of years after), even if CPS had highlighted the terms and conditions for 
fixed term workers (as arguably it shouldve done) on balance, I doubt that wouldve put 
Mr G off taking out the PPI. I think its unlikely he wouldve had any reason to expect that those particular policy requirements wouldve affected him. And I still think that the policy 
recommendation seems to have been suitable at the point of sale.
Its likely the information CPS gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But he chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type 
of cover. I think in the sales process he went through probably Mr G would have at least 
broadly understood what he was paying for and the cost of the PPI. If it hadnt been 
something he wanted to pay for  or when his circumstances later changed - Mr G 
couldve cancelled the policy at any time at no extra cost. 
So its my view, looked at overall, that even if CPS didnt do everything it shouldve 
done when it sold this PPI to Mr G its most likely he still wouldnt have done anything 
differently. That means I cant fairly say that Mr G has lost out as a result of anything 
CPS did wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right .
It follows that, as things stand, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
I can see that Mr G has also complained to the insurer about its decision to decline his 
unemployment claim. Any complaint made about the insurers decision to decline his 
unemployment claim is a separate matter to the complaint I have looked at here, which 
relates to how the policy was sold in the first place by CPS.
Just to confirm what our adjudicator has said already - if Mr G remains unhappy with the 
insurers decision in this regard and would like this service to investigate that complaint 
further, he should contact our investigator who will arrange for a separate complaint against 
the insurer to be set up and we will investigate what happened when he tried unsuccessfully 
to claim under the policy.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr G has sent me a detailed response with numbered points he would like me to address. In 
brief summary, I understand his main points of concern are the following: 
he wasnt aware of the restriction on subsequent claims until he was informed that 
his claim was being refused
the complaint was launched following the refusal only because it was obvious that 
the newly discovered restriction on the policy was not comparable to other policies 
available, thus by not making it clear that this was an extraordinary condition it was a 
case of mis-selling 
CPS didnt ever explain to Mr G that there might be other policies available with other 
conditions
Mr G says that the policy wording relied on by the underwriter as the reason for 
refusing his claim is categorically different, in its explicit restriction on why they have 
refused, to the wording on the policy document supplied originally as well as in the 
most recent renewal letter from CPS. 
Mr G feels this shows that CPS policy document must be factually incorrect, 
subsequently invalidating it and this is absolute proof that CPS mis-sold the policy no 
matter what was, or wasnt, explained at the timeMr G feels there are discrepancies in what hes been told about what records of the 
sale are available and its his understanding that all paperwork and records of sales 
need to be kept 
he feels the optional nature of the transaction does not preclude the duty of the 
advisor to carry out a full evaluation of whether a policy is suitable at the point of sale 
- and also whether it may be suitable in the future.
CPS has confrimed it has nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr G feels strongly about this complaint and that he takes a different view 
to me. Id like to reassure Mr G that I've taken carefully into account everything that he has 
said in response to my provisional decision.
Where theres only limited information and disagreement about what happened I must 
decide what I think is most likely  and that means making reasonable assumptions where 
necessary.  
A financial business isnt required to keep paperwork indefinitely. When personal private 
information is no longer likely to be needed, it can be destroyed. Data protection laws set out 
rules about this. Destroying old paperwork helps to keep customers private details secure. 
I can appreciate that Mr G feels frustrated by the lack of paperwork. But the fact that CPS 
cant now produce the sale documents isnt a reason for me to uphold this complaint. On a 
confidential basis, CPS sent this Service some electronic information showing details of the 
sale. 
Mr G was a permanent employee when CPS sold him the policy, and he remained so for 
some time after that. This led me to think that even if CPS had highlighted the terms and 
conditions for fixed term workers, on balance, it was unlikely that would have affected Mr Gs 
decision to buy the policy. 
Mr G hasnt said anything to make me think he had any reason to expect hed be in such a 
position at the time when he took out this PPI. So even if CPS didnt explain the policy as 
clearly as it shouldve done, this makes no overall difference as I cant fairly say that Mr G 
has lost out as a result of anything CPS did wrong. 
For all the reasons I've set out more fully in my provisional decision, the policy seems to 
have been suitable at the point of sale. It was up to Mr G to keep his cover under review to 
ensure it continued to meet his particular requirements  especially if his circumstances 
changed.
It seems to me that a key part of Mr Gs dissatisfaction relates to the underwriters 
interpretation of the policy terms. But this doesnt mean that CPS mis-sold the PPI. And it 
doesnt follow that Mr Gs dispute with the underwriter is a reason for me to uphold his 
complaint about CPS.  Mr G hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think about this case. 
And in my provisional decision Ive already considered and addressed all the points which 
have a bearing on the outcome. 
So I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained more fully in my 
provisional decision.
I appreciate that Mr G takes a different view to me. But I hope that setting things out as Ive 
done helps explain how Ive come to my view. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman