DRN-4256649
The complaint
Mr S complained about an unfair settlement he received from QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) under 
his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S made a claim on his policy when a storm caused damage to his car port roof and 
destroyed his summer house. QIC sent a surveyor to review the damage. 
Based on the surveyors report, QIC accepted the storm caused the damage to the car port 
roof and summer house. However, initially it said only the summer house was covered by 
the policy, so declined to cover the car port. Subsequently, Mr S carried out a temporary 
repair to the car port, which he said cost him £400 to do.
QIC later changed its mind on providing cover for the car port, which left Mr S frustrated as 
hed been inconvenienced with having to complete the job himself. QIC offered a cash 
settlement of £3,198 less the policy excess of £200. This is intended to cover repairs to the 
car port, the replacement of the summer house and removal of all storm related debris.
Mr S doesnt think this settlement is fair. He said his summer house is of high quality and he 
said hes had some of the wood checked and hes had it confirmed its made of cedar wood 
cladding. Mr S thinks the settlement QIC has calculated is based upon a much inferior 
product. Mr S thinks the overall settlement would need to be circa £7,300 higher to indemnify 
him from the damage the storm has caused.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He thought as Mr S only completed a 
temporary repair, QIC should re-inspect the car port and provide a permanent and 
professional repair. However, he didnt think Mr S provided evidence to QIC when asked to 
demonstrate the quality of his summer house. So, he didnt think QIC had been unfair in the 
settlement it awarded. Both Mr S and QIC disagreed, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I made a provisional decision on this on 29 June 2023. I said: 
QIC accepted the claim under the storm peril, however, the disagreement lies in the 
settlement it has provided to Mr S for the car port, summer house and debris removal, so Ill 
consider the evidence in relation to these three areas.
QICs settlement before the excess was deducted was £3,198. QIC has provided a quote for 
it to provide a replacement summer house via an online provider. The quote was for £2,009. 
Unfortunately, QIC hasnt been able to provide any further breakdown of the settlement it 
provided but I can deduce the remaining £1,189 mustve been for debris clearance and for 
the repairs to the car port. 
I have considered the car port. Mr S said he did some temporary repairs as initially QIC 
wouldnt cover the claim. He said these repairs cost him £400. Later, QIC changed its mind 
and said it would cover the repairs to the car port and made an allowance for the repair 
within the settlement.
Mr S wants a professional repair to his car port  hes not happy with the temporary repair 
that hes done. The temporary repair was made by Mr S to mitigate his losses and he did it 
hastily as QIC were unwilling to cover the claim at first. So, I can understand why he wants 
the repairs re-done to a good standard. I think this is reasonable.
QIC said The cash settlement offered to the policyholder included the scoped costs for the 
repairs to the roof, including the materials, scaffolding and debris removal. This cash 
settlement would only cover the area of the roof that was damaged through the storm, and 
not the remainder of the roof which is not related to this peril. Once we have provided the 
cash settlement it is the responsibility of the policyholder to ensure they carry out an 
effective and lasting repair, however due to the pre-existing condition of the roof and 
evidence of rot to the frame this may not be as effective as the policyholder hopes. However 
due to these pre-existing issues we would not allow for a contractor to attend to complete the 
work.
However, Mr S has provided a quote from a local supplier which states the work to repair his 
car port would be £1,700. So, Mr S wants QIC to settle the claim to this amount and to cover 
the cost of temporary repairs he made. QIC said it was only willing to cover the repairs 
caused by the storm and said thats what it allowed for.
Ive read the surveyors report to see what it states about the car port. The report states 
[Policyholder] has put some tarpaulins and tried to secure some temporary panels to the car 
port to keep dry. It states the external damage as storm force winds have removed 
sections of the GRP [type of fibreglass] car port roof which needs to be replaced.
I dont think QIC has been fair in only settling this part of the claim for less than £1,000. It 
has said the car port was in a poor pre-loss condition. However, the surveyors report 
doesnt provide evidence to support this statement. The surveyor commented on the good 
condition of the summer house, so I think he wouldve commented on the condition of the 
car port if it was particularly poor. I also havent seen any photographs provided by the 
surveyor to show the car port was in a poor state of repair. 
QIC has said it isnt willing to do the repair. So, I think its reasonable that Mr S expects QIC 
to cover the cost it would cost him to get the work done professionally. He has provided a 
quote for £1,700. The quote is to replace the 13 GRP sheets. As the surveyor didnt state 
what exactly had to be repaired, I cant say this quote is unreasonable. Therefore, I uphold 
this aspect of the complaint. I intend that QIC settle this part of the claim by paying Mr S 
£1,700 so he can get a good standard of repair completed. I intend QIC to refund the cost of 
the temporary repairs Mr S completed himself on the production of valid receipts (if receipts 
arent available, then I intend that QIC pay a minimum of £250 to cover this cost).
Carrying out these temporary repairs and been having to put up without a permanent repair 
for some time, will have caused Mr S distress and inconvenience, so Ill consider this 
towards the end of my decision. 
Ive then considered the settlement QIC has provided for the summer house. QIC asked Mr 
S to provide an invoice or proof of purchase for the exact model of summer house that was 
required. QIC said Mr S was unable to provide this, so it sourced a suitable replacement, 
which includes a cedar wood protective coating and a new base. 
Mr S is unhappy as he said the quality of the replacement offered isnt the same as his original summer house. He said its made from pine wood, and he said the destroyed 
summerhouse was made from cedar wood. Mr S provided a quote of just over £8,000 from a 
local supplier for supply of a cedar cladded summer house. Mr S wants a settlement that 
provides him with a like for like replacement. I think its reasonable the replacement is of 
similar quality if it can be proved what the original was made from. 
Mr S provided QIC a photo of the summer house pre-loss. He also provided QIC with 
photographs of the damaged wood from his summer house. QIC said its unable to evidence 
from the images the type of wood that is photographed. However, I can see Mr S took the 
broken fragments into a timber merchant to be verified. The timber merchant confirmed in 
writing the wood to be western red cedar. QIC said this didnt change its view as it couldnt 
verify the wood shared with the timber merchant was from the original shed.
I dont think its unusual for people to lose receipts after a few years of purchasing an item. 
However, I think QIC has had ample opportunity to inspect the damaged shed to verify the 
original material. The surveyor didnt provide a description of the wood in his report and QIC 
has chosen not to re-inspect the summer house.
I think Mr S has tried to demonstrate to QIC the quality of the original shed  hes shared 
pre-loss photos and hes had the fragments checked by a timber merchant. Im not sure 
what else QIC would expect Mr S to do. Im persuaded by the evidence that Mr S has 
provided, so I intend to uphold this complaint. There is no evidence provided by QIC to 
demonstrate the material was pine.
I intend QIC to supply and fit a replacement summer house with one like the photograph 
provided by Mr S of the pre-loss condition and made from cedar wood. The replacement 
should include both a summer house floor and summer house base as Mr S has explained 
both are needed, otherwise the product is not normally guaranteed by the supplier. 
Alternatively, QIC can cash settle this aspect of the claim by paying Mr S the amount of the 
quote he obtained (I.e., £8,118 plus fitting costs).
Its hard to know what QIC has allowed for removing the debris from site, as it hasnt shared 
this information. Mr S has estimated this at £300 which I think is fair. So, I intend that QIC 
either remove the debris from site or cash settle this part of the claim for £300.
I think this claim has caused Mr S distress. Hes been unable to use his summer house 
whilst the disputed rumbled on and his car port hasnt had a permanent fix. Hes been 
inconvenienced as he hasnt been able to use these structures properly. So, I intend to 
award £500 in compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience suffered.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S accepted my provisional decision and didnt provide any further information that 
required considering.
QIC didnt say whether it accepted or rejected my decision. However, it thought the quote 
provided by Mr S was on the heavy side and provided an alternative quote that it had 
received which was for a lower amount. QIC asked for two further quotes to be provided by 
Mr S, which it said it could then consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Im not persuaded to change my decision based on the request that QIC has made. I think 
QIC has already had plenty of opportunity to review the claim in further detail before now 
and it chose not to  any review couldve included asking Mr S to provide additional quotes.
I think asking Mr S to seek further quotes will further delay his claim and I dont think this is 
fair considering QIC has already caused significant delay to the claim already. I also dont 
think QICs request would necessarily resolve the claim, as it said it would consider the 
quotes  it didnt say it would agree to the settle the lowest quote.
I think my decision is reasonable, as QIC has been given an option to replace the 
summerhouse themselves. So, if QIC isnt happy with the settlement amount and if it thinks it 
can supply and install the new summerhouse for a cheaper amount themselves, it is free to 
do so. Of course, QIC need to ensure it provides a summerhouse of equal quality and 
specification of the original damaged summerhouse.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Pay Mr S £1,700 to allow him to get a professional repair to his car port.
Re-imburse Mr S costs for the temporary repair to the car port (on production of valid 
receipts). If receipts are unavailable pay Mr S a minimum £250 cash settlement.
Replace Mr S summerhouse with one made from cedar wood and of the same 
dimensions and quality as the pre-loss photograph (incl. floor and new base), or cash 
settle the claim (£8,118 plus fitting costs).
Remove the debris from site, or cash settle this part of the claim for £300.
Pay £500 compensation*  for distress and inconvenience.
QIC should still deduct a £200 excess from this settlement in line with the policy terms. If it 
has already paid the original settlement offered (i.e., £3,198 less the policy excess), then it 
should only pay the incremental amount.
* QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
that Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman