DRN-3823148
The complaint
L, a limited company, is unhappy that GPUK LLP wont refund a transaction which it didnt 
authorise.
What happened
L operates a retail premises. A group of individuals approached the sales counter. They 
asked to purchase a number of products. In order to complete the purchase, they were given 
Ls merchant terminal. Instead of entering a PIN to complete a transaction, one of the people 
was able to process a £999.99 refund to a debit card. L says that while one person 
pretended to enter their PIN, the others attempted to distract Ls employee by enquiring 
about other products. One of the group claimed that there was a problem with the card 
purchase and theyd return with cash. 
L didnt notice until a few days later, after which it reported the matter to GPUK. GPUK 
advised L to change the terminal password from its factory default and to inform the police. It 
said that it had contacted the card issuing bank but had been unable to recover Ls money 
as there was no money available in the card holders account. 
The matter was referred to our service and one of our investigators upheld it. They thought 
that the processing of a refund in this way was a payment service under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (PSR 2017) and, therefore, L could only be held responsible for 
a transaction it had authorised. The investigator was satisfied (based on CCTV evidence and 
L's testimony) that wasnt the case.
They also thought that L hadnt breached Regulation 72 PSR 2017 (which, among other 
things, requires payment service users to take all reasonable steps to keep personalised 
security credentials safe) or the terms of the agreement as Ls employee had been 
distracted by the fraudsters. 
GPUK didnt agree. In summary it said:
- Responsibility for the terminal rested with the merchant.
- It had brought this particular risk to the attention of L  both in the Merchant 
Operating Instructions, in its Terms of Service and a leaflet entitled Know the Risks. 
Ls director had, in November 2021, signed a declaration confirming theyd read and 
understood those documents.
- It also relied on term 6.24 of its Terms of Service, which states: You must ensure 
that you are aware of the location of all terminals within your possession and 
periodically inspect devices to look for tampering or substitution. In addition you must 
ensure that all staff are trained to be aware of suspicious behaviour and to report 
tampering or substitution of terminals 
- L didnt identify the transaction until two days after it took place  so L had acted 
negligently.
- It had highlighted the specific risk of customers interfering with the terminal in The 
Merchant Operating Instructions.
- The Merchant Operating Instructions and the Know your Risks leaflet both have 
sections entitled Terminals which explain that the customer is responsible for the 
terminal equipment and for any losses that arise from third parties using the machine, 
other than the way intended as part of the normal use of the machine. They also 
instruct the merchant to be wary of a customer who holds onto a terminal for longer 
than is needed to input a PIN.
- The fraudster would have needed to handle the card machine for a significant 
amount of time in order to process the transaction. 
- So, overall, L was negligent in the way it used the equipment and GPUK couldnt be 
held responsible.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
In advance of my final decision I contacted GPUK. I explained that I wasnt clear what its 
position was in relation to the PSR 2017, specifically whether it was of the view that L would 
be responsible for the loss, regardless of whether the payment was authorised by L or not.
GPUK responded to say that it did accept that the transaction was unauthorised, but that L 
had failed in its obligations under Regulation 72 of the PSR 2017, as it failed to abide by 
72(1)(a) or 72(3). It cited the fact that a third party had processed a payment using Ls 
terminal as evidence of this failure. It also argued that L had failed to establish a refund 
approval limit on the terminal which, in its view, would have prevented the loss. Overall, it 
said that L hadnt shown reasonable care and GPUK could not have prevented the loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered this matter carefully Im satisfied that:
- By providing merchant terminal services to L, GPUK was acting as its payment 
service provider.
- The refund was a payment transaction for the purposes of the PSR 2017.
- Under the PSR 2017 a payment service user isnt generally responsible for payment 
transactions it hasnt authorised.
- In this case, there isnt conclusive evidence that a third party made the payment  
though Im satisfied this is more likely than not to be the case based on CCTV 
screenshots and Ls testimony. In any case, GPUK accepts that L didnt carry out the 
transaction and that there was no corresponding sale associated with the refund. 
- Therefore I dont think the transaction was authorised by L, so, as a starting point, L 
should not be responsible for it, unless it can be shown that L acted with gross 
negligence or intent in failing to adhere to the terms of the agreement or Regulation 
72, PSR 2017. 
- Though GPUK have relied on the section of the Merchant Operating Instructions 
entitled Terminals, it accepts that a finding of liability should be dependent on 
whether it can be demonstrated that L failed in its obligations under Regulation 72.
- Its relevant to note that GPUK did not issue the payment instrument to L. It only 
provides merchant acquiring services. It also has no knowledge of whether additional 
security (such as a password) would have been required in order to process a refund 
(though it does recommend such a password is put in place).
- L has provided evidence of the specific terminal it was using at the time. Ive 
reviewed the user guide for that terminal and it appears that a user would need to 
login to the device in order to process transactions, but no further security (such as a password) would have necessarily been required in order for a transaction to be 
processed. 
- Given that in order to process a sale through the terminal, an employee of L would 
need to be logged into it, its evident that the action of handing over the terminal while 
it was in a state that a refund could be processed could not amount to gross 
negligence. 
- It also means that L or its employees, would, on balance, not have had to disclose 
any security information or passwords for the refund to take place: it could have been 
carried out by anyone with a reasonable working knowledge of the machine and the 
opportunity to do so. 
- I havent been able to view CCTV footage of the events of that day, but I have seen 
stills of the alleged perpetrators. I understand that the retail premises is small  and it 
seems likely that the perpetrators would have been visible to Ls employee at all 
times and not left unattended. 
- I also understand that the alleged perpetrators deliberately distracted Ls employee, 
who was, understandably, concerned about the possibility of shoplifting. This doesnt 
indicate Ls employee was being careless or negligent, but rather that they were 
subject to an organised attempt to defraud and they were trying to minimise what 
they perceived as the risk to L.
- Ive also reviewed the refund process in the terminal manual and it does not appear 
that processing a refund would take a significant amount of time. And, our service 
has seen other complaints where a skilled perpetrator is able to execute transactions 
swiftly.
- Ive also considered that this type of fraud is relatively unusual and I wouldnt 
necessarily expect L to be completely alert to this risk. L says that it rarely, if ever, 
gives refunds by card, which also indicates that its less likely to be aware of this 
particular risk.
- I understand that the risk was highlighted to L in various pieces of documentation that 
it was provided with. But, I havent seen anything to suggest those warnings were 
particularly prominent. While a failure on Ls part to read and/or understand that 
information (or set a refund approval limit) might have been careless, gross 
negligence requires that carelessness to be to a very significant degree. I dont think 
that can be shown here. 
- GPUK point to the fact that L didnt notice the transaction for several days as 
evidence that they were not taking care of the terminal. This fact might indicate that 
they didnt notice anything unusual about the way the fraudster was using the 
machine or they were distracted at the time, but, again, its not enough for me to 
suggest that they were grossly negligent. The fraudster may have simply been very 
adept at carrying out the fraud. 
- So, overall, Im not persuaded that L authorised the payment in dispute and I dont 
think GPUK have been able to demonstrate that it failed to adhere to the terms and 
conditions or Regulation 72 PSR 2017 with gross negligence or intent. 
- It follows that L should be refunded in full.
- As the funds were likely to be used in the ordinary course of business, I think GPUK 
should also pay L 8% simple interest per annum from the date L was without the 
funds to the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint about GPUK LLP and instruct it to pay L:- £999.99
- Any charges associated with the payment.
- 8% simple interest per annum from the date L was deprived of the funds to the date 
of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman