DRN-3569794
The complaint
Mr D complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) is seeking a payment 
from him, even though he says it has already been made. 
What happened
In July 2019 Mr D took out a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS. The agreement was for 
just over £40,000, which was the balloon payment needed under a previous agreement. Mr 
D was to make an advance payment of £10,000. 
Following a review of the account in 2021, BMWFS said that it could not locate the £10,000 
payment. It said that, if payment was not made, it would consider issuing a default and 
seeking to recover the car. 
Mr D explained that the payment was to have been made from his wifes account. They were 
divorced in or around May 2021, so Mr D says he cannot contact her and has no access to 
her bank account. He cannot therefore show that the payment was made. 
BMWFS says that it has checked all payments received at around the relevant time, but 
there is no payment for £10,000 that has not been allocated to an account. It says that it 
does not believe therefore that the payment was made. 
BMWFS does acknowledge that it was some two years before it identified that the payment 
was missing and that it should have raised the issue sooner. It says however that the 
payment is nevertheless still due. 
Mr D referred the matter to this service. Our investigator was not however persuaded that 
the payment had been made. He did not believe therefore that Mr D had been treated 
unfairly. Mr D did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BMWFS has acknowledged that it should have identified sooner than it did that the advance 
payment had not  according to its records  been paid. Had it done so, Mr D might have 
been in a better position to investigate what had happened and to question his now ex-wife. 
That is unfortunate. 
However, the finance agreement was between Mr D and BMWFS, so he is responsible for 
ensuring that all the agreed payments have been made. The main issue I must consider 
therefore is whether in fact the payment was made, either in 2019 when the agreement was 
taken out or later. 
Mr D has never claimed that he made the payment himself, so he has no evidence of it. And 
I accept that he has no access to his ex-wifes account documents, so he cannot show that 
she made it.
It is possible, as Mr D suggests, that the payment was made but that BMWFS misplaced it. 
Its possible too that it was made by cheque  which might make it more difficult to trace. I 
have therefore had to consider what the most likely explanation is. In my view, it is more 
likely that the payment was not in fact made, even if Mr D thought it had been. I am satisfied 
that BMWFS has made a thorough search of payments and that it has been unable to trace 
a payment intended for his account. 
As I say, I think BMWFS should have identified sooner that the payment had not been made. 
Having realised that it was missing, however, I do not believe that MBWFS treated Mr D 
unfairly by asking him to make it.    
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require BMW Financial Services(GB) 
Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman