DRN-3665867
The complaint
Mr J complains about the advice Inspirational Financial Management Ltd (IFM) gave to 
transfer the benefits he held in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal 
pension. The BSPS was a defined benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme. He says the 
advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Js employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits 
to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Js employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In July 2017 Mr J received a transfer value quotation (TVQ) from the trustees of the BSPS. 
This summarised the benefits Mr J had accrued in the BSPS at the date of the quotation. It 
noted that Mr J had accrued 20 years and 4 months of pensionable service and as of May 
2016 his starting pension at age 65 was said to be £20,157.46 per year. But by the point of 
the quotation, this had been revalued to £20,680.20 per year. And it would continue to be 
revalued until retirement. The TVQ also gave the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of 
Mr Js BSPS pension benefits, which was £515,451.51.
Also in July 2017, Mr J spoke to a business, which Ill call Firm F, as he wanted advice 
relating to his BSPS benefits. Firm F didnt have the necessary permissions to advise Mr J 
about a potential transfer from his DB scheme. So, they referred him to IFM.
IFM wrote to Mr J to introduce itself and asked him to complete a fact-find, that would be 
used when discussing his pension, to provide it information about his circumstances and 
objectives. Mr J was 47, employed, in good health and married with two children over the 
age of 18. He and Mrs J owned their own home with a remaining mortgage of approximately 
£26,000 that was due to be repaid within the next couple of years. They also received some 
income from a rental property they owned. In total their incomings were noted as exceeding 
their outgoings by approximately £750 - with that figure due to grow significantly when the 
mortgage was repaid and the monthly payments of around £1,000 ceased.
In addition to the benefits held in the BSPS, Mr J was also a member of a new group 
personal pension that had been set up by his employer. He and his employer were noted as 
making combined contributions to this pension equivalent to 12% of his salary. The BSPS 
benefits though made up the majority of his retirement provisions at the time of the advice.
The fact find noted that Mr J hoped to retire at age 55 and, in the event he took it, take tax-
free cash (TFC) from his pension at that point. But the fact-find didnt note what level of 
income he expected to need at that point, nor did it identify any capital expenditure Mr J 
expected to need TFC for. And indeed, in answer to one of the questions asked, Mr J ticked 
to say that while hed like the maximum TFC possible at retirement he also agreed he was 
too young to make a decision about this. Mr J also indicated that he was happy to accept a 
lower pension if he retired early and said that, if his pension and future savings didnt meet 
his retirement goals, hed amend his goals rather than taking more risks. He did note that 
being able to take his benefits as and when required was one of the reasons he was 
considering transferring. And IFM also recorded that Mr J was keen to have control over his 
pension and was concerned at potentially moving to the PPF.
The questionnaire also included questions about Mr Js attitude to risk. To which he 
answered, amongst other things, that the degree of risk he was willing to take in his financial 
affairs generally was extremely low, he was only looking to take small risks in the future and 
he was willing to forego larger gains in favour of security. IFM initially recorded in its notes 
that Mr Js attitude to risk was cautious to conservative. 
Mr J says, while hed answered some of the questions in the fact find before meeting with 
IFM, it was only fully completed when he met with its adviser. Which is supported by the fact-
find having been dated 15 August 2017, when I understand is when the meeting took place. 
Even though the fact find appears to have only been provided to IFM at that stage it appears 
that some application forms to enable a transfer to take place were also signed at that 
meeting.
In the meantime, on 11 August 2017, Mr Js employer confirmed the terms of the RAA  
which had been agreed in May 2017  had been signed. This announcement included 
confirmation that agreement had also been reached about the sponsorship, by Mr Js 
employer, of the BSPS2.
On 24 August 2017, IFM sent Mr J a suitability report, advising him to transfer his pension 
benefits into a personal pension and invest across two managed funds. The report said Mr J 
required flexibility to control and tailor the frequency and amount of income he received from 
his pension fund in retirement to suit his needs. It said Mr J also wanted to ensure he could 
retire when he wanted and didnt want to take the risk of having restrictions in place when 
the BSPS entered the PPF or in the BSPS2. And it said Mr J was prepared to accept more 
risk in return for greater flexibility over when and how benefits were withdrawn from his 
pension fund. So, it felt a transfer was suitable as it would achieve these aims. And IFM felt 
the managed funds were in line with Mr Js conservative attitude to risk.
Mr J complained in 2021 to IFM. He said he thought the advice was unsuitable and it should 
not have recommended that he transfer.
IFM didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. It said Mr J had said he wished for flexibility and the 
uncertainty around the scheme at the time gave him good cause to consider a transfer. And 
given his retirement objectives and the level of income he wished to access, IFM thought the 
advice was appropriate.
Mr J referred his complaint to our service. He said retiring at age 55 was an aspiration, as he 
said was the case amongst all of his colleagues. But his plans around this were by no means 
set in stone and, if this wasnt genuinely possible, hed have continued to work. He also 
clarified that the rental property he was receiving an income from was owned jointly with 
family members and was subject to a mortgage, which he felt showed the lack of attention to 
detail by IFM.
An investigator considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld and that IFM should compensate Mr J for any loss the DB transfer had led to as well as pay £300 for the 
distress caused. In summary, she didnt think Mr J was likely to be any better off as a result 
of transferring but doing so introduced significant additional risk. And she didnt think Mr J 
had a genuine need for flexibility, control or alternative death benefits  so there was no 
reason that meant transferring was in his interests. She thought Mr J shouldve been advised 
not to transfer and that he would instead have ultimately moved to the BSPS2.
IFM disagreed. It said that it was more that an aspiration for Mr J to retire at age 55 and that, 
although this wasnt documented on the file, evidence hadnt been provided to dispute this. 
IFM said Mr Js income requirement was estimated to be between £2,400 and £2,900 (net) 
per month in retirement  significantly more than the DB scheme couldve provided and so 
only by transferring could he realistically afford to retire early. It said the purpose of the 
transfer was not to increase benefits but to allow Mr J to retire early. And it felt providing 
alternative death benefits was appropriate. So IFM still thought the transfer was suitable and 
that the advice was appropriate given the time pressure on Mr J to make a choice.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. She still felt it hadnt been 
established that retiring early was more than an aspiration and noted Mr J had indicated in 
the fact find he felt he was too young at the time of the advice to make a decision about his 
retirement benefits. And she noted that the BSPS2 wouldve allowed a transfer closer to 
retirement, had there later been a genuine need to do so, so he didnt have to transfer at the 
time of the advice. Overall, she still considered the transfer wasnt in Mr Js best interests.
As IFM did not agree with the Investigators opinion the complaint was referred to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of IFM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, IFM should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Js 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
Before the fact find was signed on 15 August 2017, there had been a significant update 
about what was happening with the BSPS and the BSPS2  specifically that the RAA had 
been signed, this was expected to take effect in early September 2017 and agreement had 
been reached about the sponsorship of the BSPS2. Despite this though IFM proceeded with 
advice, without really accounting for this development. It made no suggestion to Mr J to 
potentially wait for further information and there was no analysis of the benefits the BSPS2 
might provide.
IFMs role was to look at and advise Mr J about what was in his best interests. And in my 
view, in order to assess what was in Mr Js best interests and give him enough information to 
make a fully informed decision, I think IFM should have told Mr J to defer making a decision 
on the transfer until further details of the BSPS2 were known.
Transferring out of a DB scheme is a one-off event. Once transferred there's no going back, 
the benefits of the DB scheme are usually lost forever. The announcement indicated that 
Mr J would have another option available to him. Waiting wouldve allowed IFM to carry out 
an analysis of the BSPS2 benefits, and properly compare these to the alternatives, and base 
its advice on this. Without doing this, IFM was acting on information which it knew to be 
limited. And equally concerning is that IFM arranged for Mr J to sign forms to enable a 
transfer on 15 August 2017, before the fact find had been handed over or the suitability 
report had been provided and despite the announcement made shortly prior to this. So, it is 
difficult to argue that IFM could properly assess whether a transfer was in Mr Js best 
interests. 
When giving advice about the potential transfer of DB scheme benefits, the regulator 
required IFM to instruct a transfer value analysis (TVAS). This was to compare the value of 
the existing benefit with what Mr J may receive by transferring and include the calculation of 
the critical yield - how much Mr Js pension fund would need to grow by each year if invested 
in a personal pension so that he could purchase the same benefits as his DB scheme at 
retirement. In the suitability report IFM played down the significance of this analysis saying 
TVAS reports arguably add no value to the process and that the results are largely 
academic. But again, they are a requirement set by the regulator. And I dont think it was 
reasonable to undermine the significance of understanding the value of the benefits that 
would be given up by transferring, which I think is what was implied.
Because IFM didnt account for the updates about the BSPS2, the TVAS was based on the 
benefits available under the BSPS. Even though Mr J didnt have the option to remain in the 
BSPS  he either needed to opt into the BSPS2 or move with the scheme to the PPF. Again, 
I think IFM ought to have waited until further details of the BSPS2 were made available, in 
order to run the relevant analysis and include this in its advice.
The TVAS Ive been provided did include information about the benefits the PPF might 
provide at age 65. But only the full pension amount. There was no information about what 
level of TFC and reduced pension Mr J could potentially take, and no critical yield calculated 
for that scenario. And, more importantly, there was no comparison of the benefits hed have 
been entitled to, under either the BSPS, BSPS2 or PPF, from age 55 and no critical yields 
calculated. Which, given that IFM relied on this as being a key objective, I think ought to have been analysed and explained to Mr J. 
Because the TVAS was only instructed on a very limited basis, I think there are issues with 
how useful a comparison it was here. But not, as IFM said, because it is largely academic 
but because of how it was instructed. Nevertheless, Ive thought about the analysis that was 
carried out. And I dont think this supports that a transfer was in Mr Js best interests.
The critical yield required to match the benefits Mr J wouldve been to be entitled to under 
the PPF if he retired at 65 and took a full pension, was estimated to be 3.6%. And to match 
the benefits the existing BSPS was due to provide in the same scenario, the critical yield 
was said to be 6.4%. 
The critical yield applicable to the BSPS2 benefits wasnt calculated  although again I think 
IFM ought to have waited and analysed this before providing its advice. The lower annual 
increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields somewhat in 
comparison to the BSPS. But I still think they wouldve likely been higher than those 
reflecting the PPF benefits and are likely to have been closer to those of the BSPS benefits, 
particularly at age 65. 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The relevant discount rate at the time the advice was given was 4.4% per year for 17 full 
years to retirement, as would be the case had Mr J retired at age 65. For further comparison, 
the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and 
the lower projection rate 2%. 
In the advisers handwritten notes, they noted that Mr Js attitude to risk was cautions to 
conservative. But in the suitability report IFM said it was conservative which, according to 
the information provided, was slightly less risk averse than a cautious consumer. Im not 
sure the answers in the fact-find warranted amending Mr Js attitude to risk in this way. And 
if anything, they hint at him being more cautious than conservative. But I dont think it 
makes a great deal of difference here.
Ive taken into account the discount rate, regulators projections and critical yields, along with 
the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Js attitude to risk, the term to retirement 
and what Ive said about the likely critical yield of the BSPS2. There would be little point in 
Mr J giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at 
best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here I think he was likely to receive 
benefits of a lower overall value than the BSPS2 wouldve provided at age 65, as a result of 
investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
The discount rate exceeded the critical yield to match the full pension the PPF could provide 
at age 65, suggesting this couldve been achievable. But bearing in mind Mr Js at best 
conservative attitude to risk and the regulators projection rates, I think its more likely that 
the consistent rate of return he was likely to achieve, matching his risk profile, would be 
closer to the lower projection rate. And so, I think at best he mayve been able to match the 
benefits the PPF would provide at age 65, rather than exceed them. And again, I dont think 
it was worthwhile him taking on significant additional risk to do so.
IFM has referred to the estimated growth rates that the pension provider forecast for the managed funds it recommended. And these do exceed the critical yield to match the full 
pension the PPF mightve provided at age 65. But as IFM will know, past performance is no 
guarantee for future performance and so I consider the discount rates and the regulators 
standard projections to be more realistic in this regard in the long term rather than projecting 
historic returns forward, particularly over such a long period of time.
So, overall I dont think the analysis conducted by IFM supported that, from a financial 
viability point of view, a transfer was in Mr Js interests.
And again, in any event, IFMs advice was not based on Mr J retiring at age 65. It was based 
on him taking benefits at 55. IFM didnt calculate the relevant critical yields for taking benefits 
either under the BSPS, BSPS2 or PPF at age 55. But from experience I think it is fair to say 
that those yields were likely to be higher than for retiring at 65. And, given the favourable 
terms the PPF incorporated for very early retirement, potentially significantly so, in the case 
of PPF benefits. The relevant discount rate at the time for 7 full years to retirement, which 
wouldve been the case if Mr J retired at 55, was also lower, at 3.4%. So, on balance, I think 
Mr J was also likely to obtain lower retirement benefits than the DB scheme, including the 
PPF, wouldve provided at age 55 as a result of transferring and investing in line with his 
attitude to risk.
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. And IFM has said that the transfer wasnt recommended here to improve 
benefits, but rather for other reasons. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
IFM says that Mr J wanted to retire at age 55 and that this was more than an aspiration. It 
acknowledged in response to the Investigators opinion that the notes from the time dont 
make this clear. But has said that it hasnt been disproved with any evidence. 
Mr J says that, while he would of course have been interested in retiring at age 55, had he 
been told that this wasnt likely to be achievable he wouldve accepted that. And he hadnt 
made a definitive decision about retiring at that age.
As IFM has acknowledged, the information from the point of sale doesnt, in my view, 
indicate that early retirement was more than an aspiration. And, Id have expected it to be 
more definitive about this, if it were the case. And Mr Js testimony itself is evidence. And 
that disputes IFMs version of events. But I also think information from within the fact-find 
supports that no definitive decision had been made. 
Mr J did select a statement from a pre-printed list set by IFM, in respect of potential early 
retirement, that said he anticipated early retirement and was happy to accept a lower 
pension. But to another question he selected an answer that he felt he was too young to 
make a decision about his retirement needs. It is true the question he gave this answer to 
referred to tax-free cash needs. But Mr J wasnt given the option to say he was too young to 
make a decision regarding early retirement  as this wasnt one of the pre-printed options he 
could choose from. So, I think the sentiment applied in relation to his retirement plans in 
general. And Mr J also selected, when asked what hed do if he was told his pension fund 
and savings werent enough to meet his goals, that hed alter his goals rather than take 
investment risk. Which I think further supports that his objectives werent set in stone.
I dont doubt Mr J was interested in retiring early if possible  I think most consumers would 
be when asked. But I dont think his thoughts or plans were definitive at the time of the 
advice  as he was at least 7 years from being able to make a decision about this. And the BSPS2 and the PPF both allowed Mr J to take benefits early if he chose to do so. So, he 
didnt need to transfer in order to retire early.
IFM has said that it assumed Mr and Mrs J would need an income of between £2,400 and 
£2,900 per month in retirement. And this couldnt have been achieved through the DB 
scheme. But the first mention of this as a potential income requirement was in response to 
the complaint. There was nothing recorded in the documents from the time, including the 
suitability report, indicating that this was an objective or an assumption used or that the 
advice was based on this. Which I wouldve expected to see some evidence of, if this was 
something that was discussed. Rather this seems to have been provided as a justification 
now for the advice, rather than being a genuine consideration at the time.
There doesnt appear to have been a target retirement income recorded at the time. And 
bearing in mind that IFM said the transfer wasnt recommended on the basis of improving 
retirement benefits, I dont think I can reasonably Mr J needed to transfer to achieve a 
genuine income need.
IFM has said that Mr J was interested in and wanted flexibility in terms of how he could take 
his benefits. But IFM wasnt there to just transact what Mr J mightve thought he wanted. And 
I dont think he had a need for flexibility when he transferred his DB scheme. Not least 
because his retirement plans and needs seem to have been uncertain. So, I dont think it 
was a suitable recommendation for Mr J to give up his guaranteed benefits when he did  
particularly given he was always likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value by doing 
so. And if Mr J later had reason to transfer out of his DB scheme, I understand that this 
wouldve been allowed under the BSPS2. And he couldve done so closer to retirement.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr J. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr J might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr J about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. 
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed as they 
meant the pension would not die with Mr J as IFM suggested. Mr J was married and so the 
spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful to his spouse if Mr J 
predeceased her. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was.
The sum remaining on death following a transfer, as well as being dependent on investment 
performance, wouldve also been reduced by any income Mr J drew in his lifetime. And he 
was recorded as being in good health. So, I think he was likely to have drawn an income for 
some time. IFM has suggested that due to his profession he didnt expect to live as long. But 
again, this wasnt recorded at the time of the advice. 
IFM has also said that the spouses pension was unlikely to be enough to meet Mrs Js 
income needs. Which is why the lump sum benefits available through a personal pension 
were desirable. But the group personal pension that Mr J was a member of was recorded as 
providing death in service benefits of six times his salary. And it wouldve also provided a 
lump sum in the event of his death equivalent to the value of the pot itself. And if Mr J didnt 
think this was sufficient and he was genuinely concerned and wanted to leave a further 
legacy, which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think IFM shouldve instead explored life insurance. Which I cant 
see that it did.
In any event, IFM should not have encouraged Mr J to prioritise the potential for alternative 
death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement. And overall, I dont 
think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal pension justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr J. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr Js desire for direct control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr J was not 
an experienced investor, and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be 
able to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine 
objective for Mr J  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from the DB scheme.
I think this objective was more linked to the uncertainty about the BSPS. I dont doubt Mr J, 
like many of his colleagues, was concerned about his pension. His employer had been 
consulting on its plans for the scheme for some time. And the announcements in the weeks 
and months prior to the advice indicated he was going to need to make a choice about this  
which I doubt is something hed done or contemplated before. And he mightve felt 
unequipped to do so. I also dont doubt Mr J had likely heard negative things about what 
could happen, including entry into the PPF. And its quite possible he was leaning towards 
the decision to transfer because of his concerns. But that is why it was even more important 
for IFM to give Mr J an objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests. 
As Ive explained, I think IFM should have waited before confirming its advice so that the 
option of the BSPS2 couldve been fully considered and explained. Prior to the advice being 
given there were updates regarding the BSPS and the BSPS2 that indicated it was 
progressing and appeared likely to be an option for customers in Mr Js position. So, the 
advice shouldve properly taken the benefits available to Mr J through the BSPS2 into 
account. Which, as Ive said, it appears he was unlikely to improve upon by transferring. And 
I think this shouldve alleviated some of the concerns Mr J mightve had about the scheme 
moving to the PPF.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that IFM shouldve 
reassured Mr J that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. The 
income available to Mr J through the PPF, while a reduction on what hed have been due 
under the BSPS, was still guaranteed and not subject to investment risk  which given the 
answers in the fact find about his unwillingness to take risks seem like it wouldve been 
important to him. And he was unlikely to improve on the pension benefits the PPF wouldve 
provided by transferring out. So, I dont think that any concerns Mr J mightve had about the 
PPF shouldve led to IFM recommending he transfer out of the DB scheme altogether. 
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for alternative death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr J. But again, 
IFM wasnt there to just transact what he might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand Mr Js circumstances, separate his potential concerns stemming 
from the ongoing uncertainty and unconfirmed potential plans from his genuine needs and 
recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr J was suitable. His needs in retirement appear 
to have been unconfirmed. By transferring, he was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and 
increasing income. And this action was irreversible. Mr J was also, in my view, always likely to obtain lower retirement benefits as a result of transferring. And I dont think there were any 
other reasons which justified the transfer and outweighed this. So, I dont think it was in 
Mr Js best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension. And I think 
IFM shouldve first recommended that he defer making a decision until further details of the 
BSPS2 were available and ultimately advised him against transferring.
Mr J was over 7 years from the age at which he said he might hope to retire. Although again 
I dont think retiring at that age was more than a nice to have. So, while he indicated he was 
interested in retiring early I dont think he could say with certainty what his needs in 
retirement would likely be. So, I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the 
reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF. I say this because 
while it is true the PPF wouldve provided a more favourable reduction for very early 
retirement, because his plans were not confirmed, there was no guarantee the reduction he 
accepted would end up being offset by this more favourable reduction. And by opting into the 
BSPS2, Mr J wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his 
retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was 
also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think if IFM had correctly advised him 
against transferring Mr J wouldve ultimately opted into the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr J would've gone ahead anyway, against IFM's 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully. Mr J had obtained a CETV before speaking to IFM. But I dont 
think this means his mind was already made up. Scheme members had been made aware of 
significant potential changes to the BSPS and it had been indicated that theyd have to make 
a choice about their pension. Obtaining a CETV allowed Mr J to make an informed choice. 
But I dont think this means hed always have transferred.
I accept that IFM outlined risks of transferring to Mr J in the suitability report  albeit after 
application forms had already been signed.  But providing information about risks isnt a 
substitute for suitable advice. And ultimately IFM advised Mr J to transfer his benefits, and I 
think he relied on that advice.
Ultimately Mr J was an inexperienced investor and this pension accounted for the majority of 
his retirement provision at the time. So, if IFM, a professional adviser hed been referred to 
for expert advice, had provided him with clear advice against transferring, explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice. And Im not persuaded 
that Mr Js concerns about the consultation or the PPF, or the potential appeal of alternative 
death benefits, control or flexibility were so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer 
knowing IFM didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. And if IFM had 
explained that Mr J was always unlikely to exceed the guaranteed benefits available to him 
by transferring, I think that wouldve carried significant weight, particularly considering his 
recorded attitude to risk. So, I dont think hed have gone against the advice.
In light of the above, I think IFM should compensate Mr J for the unsuitable advice. Mr J has 
suggested that IFM should be required to purchase him a policy guaranteeing the benefits 
that he gave up. But the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology is 
designed to put him in the position to obtain the same benefits that were given up. So, I think 
using that methodology to determine compensation remains appropriate here. 
Our Investigator recommended that IFM also pay Mr J £300 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr J has been caused distress and concern by finding 
out the advice may not have been suitable  particularly given the circumstances and 
uncertainty under which he first asked for this advice. And Im conscious this upset wouldnt 
have happened but for the unsuitable advice. So, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator recommended in respect of this is fair.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr J, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for IFMs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr J would have 
most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to a personal pension if he'd been 
given suitable advice. So, IFM should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison 
purposes.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr J whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance / rules to come into effect. Mr J indicated 
he was unsure and ultimately didnt inform us of a choice. So as set out previously Ive 
assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait for the new guidance to come into effect. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr J. 
IFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr J has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Js acceptance of the decision.
IFM may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Js 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Js SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Js pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr J as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr J within 90 days of the date IFM receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes IFM to pay Mr J.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect IFM to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
In addition, IFM should pay Mr J £300 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd to pay Mr J the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd to pay Mr J any interest on that amount in full, as set 
out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd to pay Mr J any interest as set out above on the sum 
of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr J the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr J.
If Mr J accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd.My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr J can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr J may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman