DRN-4376739
The complaint
Mr B complains that his car was damaged in a call out under his motor breakdown insurance 
underwritten by Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas). References to Ageas include other 
organisations and individuals acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr B had motor breakdown insurance underwritten by Ageas. There was a problem with his 
car battery and he called Ageas out twice in a very short period of time. The first time the 
battery was flat and the mechanic Ageas sent was able to jump start the car.
A few days later the car wouldnt start and Ageas again sent a mechanic. Mr B said this 
mechanic attached the jump leads incorrectly and damaged the battery. Mr B said the car 
couldnt be started.
Mr B wasnt happy about what happened and complained to Ageas. Ageas asked him to get 
a garage to inspect the car and provide a statement of findings and an estimate for repairs, 
which it would then consider. 
Mr B provided an estimate from a car electrics company which said that the car needed new 
battery fuses which had blown due to the car being jump started the wrong way, and a new 
battery as Mr B said the old one had been smoking. Mr B got the company to do the work 
and sent the estimate to Ageas with pictures of the damaged fuse. In response the second 
mechanics garage told Ageas that all its technicians use boost starter packs with polarity 
reversal which wouldnt blow the fuse. Ageas engineer considered all the evidence and said 
the battery pack would be surge protected and in any event the invoice was much too high.
Ageas wrote to Mr B saying that it is industry standard to carry surge protected jump packs 
and so the damage he suggested was caused by putting the leads on the wrong terminals 
wasnt possible. Ageas also said the invoices he had provided were unusually high. Ageas 
said that Mr B had reported a flat battery twice across four days and in its view there clearly 
was an issue with the battery and it was not holding charge and in all likelihood, all the 
repairs that were required were entirely related to the original issue with Mr Bs vehicle. 
Ageas didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint as it said the evidence didnt support the view that the 
required repairs were as a result of the on-scene actions of the attending technician.
Mr B wasnt happy with the response from Ageas and so he complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She said she found Ageas evidence and arguments 
to be more persuasive. 
Mr B wasnt happy with what the investigator said and so his complaint has been passed to 
me. Mr B wants £368.32 compensation, which he says is what he paid for the repairs to his 
car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not my role to decide what happened to cause the damage to Mr Bs car, or when it 
happened. My role is to decide whether Ageas acted fairly and reasonably. On balance I 
think it was reasonable for Ageas to rely on the assurances from the garage and its own 
expert that it wouldnt have been possible for the damage to have been caused by the 
mechanic trying to jump start the car incorrectly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. So I wont be asking Ageas 
Insurance Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman