DRN-3650828
The complaint
Miss B complained that Lloyds Bank PLC gave her unsuitable investment advice.
What happened
Miss B approached Lloyds for investment advice in July 1999. 
In line with Lloyds recommendation, Miss B invested £5,000 in a stocks and share ISA that 
invested in the UK Growth Fund. She also decided to pay £100 per month into the account. 
When she surrendered the investment in January 2005 in order to put the money towards 
buying a house, she received back £6,005.55, making an overall loss on her investment. 
Miss Bs representative says this investment wasnt right for Miss B because she was 
advised to invest too much of her available funds. 
When Miss B complained to Lloyds it said she was out of time as she had left it too late to 
complain. So it didnt agree to look into her complaint. This led to Miss B bringing her 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator explained to Lloyds why he thought that Miss B was still entitled to bring this 
complaint. Lloyds reconsidered its position and said it now agreed that she could complain. It 
provided copies of the paperwork it held on file for Miss B and our investigator looked into 
what happened.  
He said Lloyds had advised Miss B to invest around 97% of her available money which he 
thought was too big a proportion of her money. So he recommended that her complaint 
should be upheld. 
Lloyds didnt agree with our investigators conclusion. Whilst it agreed that investing 97% of 
her available money wouldve been unsuitable, it didnt agree this had happened. 
It mainly said our investigator hadnt properly taken into account Miss Bs overall financial 
situation. In summary, it said he had failed to allow for Miss B having more money available 
to her as she couldve cashed in another savings account and she had access to more 
money in another joint account. Lloyds didnt agree Miss B had been advised to invest too 
much of her money and said the recommended fund matched her medium attitude to risk, 
which wasnt inappropriate for her circumstances. It said she understood the fund value 
could go down as well as up  which Lloyds said was why she hadnt complained about the 
advice she had been given when she lost money on her investment in 2005. 
  
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
First of all, I've thought about whether the recommendation to invest £5,000 was unsuitable 
and approached this by considering how much money I think its fair to say Miss B had 
available for investment purposes.
When Miss B approached Lloyds for advice in 1999, her financial situation was as follows:
her annual income was just over £10,000 and she earned £780 per mth 
after splitting bills and other household costs, her half share of monthly expenditure 
meant she had disposable income of around £474 each month 
she had savings of £7,144 in a TESSA (a savings account that offered tax benefits 
and was set up to provide growth over a minimum term of 5 years but also allowed 
ready access to the money). Miss B told the adviser she liked to have some money 
available at all times which is why she chose this account
she also had an interest in the following accounts held jointly with the other member 
of her household: 
- £10,346 in a joint savings account
- £4,232 in a joint cheque account used to pay for household expenditure
The fact find recorded at the time indicates that Miss B had been in her job more than 
5 years and she expected to work for at least the next 35 years. She was in good health and 
had no dependants. She lived in her own home, bought 3 years or so earlier and estimated 
to be worth around £50,000, which she owned jointly with the other member of her 
household subject to an outstanding £28,000 mortgage. Miss B told Lloyds financial adviser 
that she didnt have any particular future plans for which she wanted to make financial 
provision. She said she had no immediate or future need for savings to pay her an income 
she wanted to increase her regular savings. Miss B said she liked to save on a regular basis 
and preferred to save tax free. 
Lloyds said its recommendation was suitable for Miss B as it had kept in mind all of these 
considerations and the advice offered reflected Miss Bs financial goals and wishes.
I think it's fair to say that the fact find doesnt record in particular detail exactly what was 
discussed. But Ive seen sufficient to make me think that Lloyds did enquire enough in order 
to gain a reasonable understanding of Miss Bs financial situation. So I think it was able to 
make an informed recommendation based on Miss Bs particular circumstances. 
From the information it gathered, Lloyds saw that all of Miss Bs essential spending needs 
appeared to be amply covered and she had surplus cash  some already invested in a 
TESSA in her name and the rest in a joint savings account. Month on month she was 
earning more than she needed to spend and there wasnt anything to make Lloyds think that 
this situation wasnt likely to continue for the foreseeable future. She didnt have any 
spending plans for the money and she wanted her money to work for her. 
So it seems clear to me that Miss B was in a position to be able to invest and this was what 
she wanted to continue doing with her spare cash.   
Ive thought carefully about Miss Bs complaint that the amount Lloyds recommended her to 
invest was unsuitable.  
Our investigator worked out that Miss Bs half share in the joint deposit-based savings 
account gave her just £5,173 to invest. So, he felt that Lloyds recommendation to invest a 
lump sum of £5,000 (plus an additional £100 per month) meant she would be investing 97% 
of her available savings  which was too high.Lloyds has said a fairer way to think about things is to also consider that Miss Bs available 
investment money included not just her half of the joint savings, but also the money she had 
in the TESSA  as well as at least some potential savings money in the joint current account.
I think Lloyds is correct in saying that Miss B viewed money in her TESSA account as being 
readily accessible  from what it appears she said, being able to access that money quickly 
seemed to be one of the main reasons why the account was appealing to her. 
Lloyds has said that even if Miss B had taken out her money earlier than wouldve been ideal 
in terms of maximising her potential return, she would still have earned a reasonable interest 
rate overall  broadly comparable to what her savings would have achieved in a standard 
building society account. 
The TESSA account also offered Miss B potential tax relief benefits  which she wouldnt 
have benefitted from if she had taken her money out of the account within 5 years. I think 
Lloyds was aware of this and most likely took this into account when making its 
recommendation. And this doesnt affect my overall view. 
As far as I can see, even had Miss B chosen to withdraw money early from the TESSA, any 
loss of tax relief doesnt seem to have been a big consideration for her. I say this because 
the fact find information recorded makes me think that Miss B seems mainly to have wanted 
the TESSA account so she had guaranteed easy access to her cash savings if needed. The 
TESSA offered her ready access to her cash, along with interest and potential tax relief as 
other benefits if she chose to leave her savings intact. 
So I think it's probably fair to say that Miss B herself might well have thought about the 
money in her TESSA as essentially cash savings that offered the chance of a better return. 
And, when thinking about how much money she had available for investment in 1999, its fair 
and reasonable to take into account the £7,144 in her TESSA  giving her a total investment 
pot of around £12,317 (£5,173 +£7,144). 
I dont think any money in the joint cheque account can fairly be included here when it was 
already earmarked for the specific purpose of meeting household expenditure  and it 
seems likely to me that it would all ultimately be needed for that purpose.  
This leads me to conclude that the £5,000 investment Lloyds recommended amounted to 
just 40% or so (around two fifths) of the amount Miss B had available to safely invest. I dont 
think this was such a high proportion of her money that I can fairly say the amount Lloyds 
recommended Miss B to invest was unreasonable. 
I havent overlooked the fact that Miss B also made a monthly payment into the 
recommended ISA as well. But she chose  unprompted by Lloyds - to invest £100 per 
month out of monthly disposable income of £474 as opposed to the advisers suggestion of 
just £50 per month. I think the fact she paid in double the amount that Lloyds had 
recommended suggests that Miss B was very comfortable with the amount she was advised 
to invest. So this doesnt affect my provisional decision.  
Having decided that the amount of money Lloyds recommended Miss B to invest wasnt too 
high a proportion of her available savings, I have gone on to consider more generally 
whether the advice was unsuitable in any other way.  
I have explained why I think Miss B didnt have any other more pressing need for the £5,000 
Lloyds recommended she should invest. She had protection in place for her mortgage and 
the joint account holder appeared to be in a comfortable financial situation with available 
spare cash to invest also. So I can understand why Miss B mightve felt able to take a relatively relaxed view about risk. And, to my mind, the ISA Lloyds recommended to Miss B 
offered her the growth potential she said she wanted and reflected the level of risk she had 
indicated she was willing to take. I think Miss B understood that some level of risk was 
necessary in order to achieve the gains she hoped to make and she was aware this meant 
her investment might lose value. 
I say this because I think the adviser probably explained this during the fact find discussion  
and risk is explained in reasonably clear terms in the fact find paperwork that Miss B signed. 
I also think Miss B had capacity to absorb losses  even after paying £100 a month into the 
account she had an ample cash surplus. And Im mindful that Miss B hasnt complained 
about her money being invested in a fund that was too risky for her even though it didnt 
perform as she hoped.  
To sum up, Miss B wanted to earn a greater return than she would receive if she didnt take 
some risk. She was prepared to take a medium risk. She didnt require any income from her 
investment. I find Lloyds recommendation reasonably reflected her agreed objectives and 
risk attitude. The suggested investment amount wasnt unreasonable.
Overall, and based on Miss Bs circumstances as recorded at the time, Im not persuaded 
Lloyds investment advice was unsuitable. On balance, I think the ISA Miss B was 
recommended to invest in offered her what she was looking for in an investment and it was a 
suitable investment for her, given her particular financial situation.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
I have heard nothing further from Miss B and Lloyds has acknowledged my provisional 
decision and told me it has nothing further to add. The deadline for responses has now 
passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman