DRN-3676037
The complaint
Mr D complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund money he lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
Mr D received a message on a popular messaging application. It didnt come from one of Mr 
Ds contacts. The sender suggested that they did know Mr D and were providing an updated 
number.
Mr D enquired who the person was and was asked to guess. He assumed it to be a 
colleague and friend whom hed known for a long time, seemingly on the basis that he knew 
his colleague had recently arrived from another country and had intended to purchase a new 
SIM card. Unfortunately for Mr D the message hadnt come from a colleague, but rather a 
fraudster.
The following day Mr D contacted the fraudster and asked whether he would be going into 
the office the next day. The fraudster said he would be, but asked Mr D to send him £300. 
Mr D immediately agreed to this request. He asked whether it was a payment to the 
colleagues landlord as, he says, he was expecting to lend his colleague money for this 
purpose. Mr D says he knew that, since his arrival, his colleague had been staying in a 
serviced apartment and would have needed to look for permanent accommodation. He was 
also aware that his colleague only had a pre-paid card, which didnt allow him to make bank 
transfers. So, the request to make a payment of this nature on his colleagues behalf didnt 
come as a surprise. 
After Mr D made the £300 payment, the fraudster claimed hed actually requested £600. Up 
to this point Mr D had mostly been responding to the fraudster in Hindi, while the fraudster 
had generally responded in English  mixed with, what I understand to be, a few words of 
Hindi. As the conversation continued and the fraudsters requests for more money became 
more frequent and desperate, they appear to have tried to communicate in Hindi, but I 
understand their attempts were largely unintelligible  a fact, along with the requests for 
more money, which caused Mr D enough concern to realise hed been scammed. 
Mr D reported the matter to Monzo but it didnt uphold his complaint. While Monzo isnt a 
signatory to the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM Code it 
has agreed to adhere to its principles. It requires firms to refund victims of APP scams like 
this one in all but a limited number of circumstances. In this case, Monzo said that Mr D had 
ignored a warning it had provided which instructed him not to make a payment unless hed 
checked who he was paying. It also argued that hed failed to carry out any checks on the 
recipient before making the payment, so he didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the 
recipient was his colleague.
 
One of our investigators upheld Mr Ds complaint. They noted the unfortunate coincidence 
that Mr D was both expecting contact from his colleague on a new number and had 
previously agreed to lend him money. They also thought that the fraudsters use of English 
mixed with Hindi would have been persuasive. So, they recommended Monzo refund Mr D 
£300, along with 8% interest. 
Monzo didnt agree. It noted the context in which the payments were made, but maintained 
that Mr D had simply not carried out any of the due diligence that one might expect  such 
as contacting the person over the phone or via a video call.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr D made the payment in dispute himself. So, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of his account, he is presumed liable for the loss in 
the first instance. But, thats not the end of the story, Monzo has agreed to adhere to the 
principles of the CRM Code and also has long standing obligations to be on the lookout for 
unusual and out of character transaction to (among other things) help protect its customers 
from financial harm from fraud.
Should Monzo refund Mr D under the CRM Code?
Beginning with the warnings that Mr D would have seen during the payment journey, I 
understand he was presented with a general warning, much of which wasnt particularly 
relevant to his circumstances. It did instruct Mr D to stop if you havent double checked who 
youre paying. This is clearly sensible advice, but the CRM Code has a specific definition of 
what an Effective Warning is. I dont think this general warning meets that definition. 
It wasnt particularly tailored to the type of scam Mr D was falling victim to and did nothing to 
bring alive what a scam like this might look like  that fraudsters will impersonate people you 
know and demand money. While its understandable that Monzo didnt give a more specific 
warning given the relatively modest size of the payment, Im satisfied that the warning it did 
give did not meet the definition of effective under the CRM Code.
 
Next Ive considered whether Mr Ds belief that he was speaking to his colleague was 
reasonably held. 
Ive reviewed a genuine conversation between Mr D and his colleague and I note the 
similarities between it and the conversation with the fraudster. In both, Mr D tends to 
communicate in a mix of Hindi and English, while his colleague responds largely in English, 
but with the odd word of Hindi.
In hindsight its easy to see that it was Mr D who offered up the name of his colleague and 
the reason for the payment. Had he refused to guess who the message was from or 
questioned the reason for the payment further, then its likely the scam would have come to 
light. Yet, given the context Ive already set out  that Mr D was expecting the contact  I 
dont think the fraudsters seemingly innocent and playful suggestion that he should guess 
their name ought to have seemed concerning to Mr D. 
Its also important to note that the fraudster did not request money from Mr D the same day 
they contacted him. It wasnt until the following day that the request for money came and, 
even then, only after Mr D had initiated contact. At this point, Mr D was seemingly accepting 
that hed been contacted by his colleague, having already updated his phone with the new 
number, and I think the gap in time made him less likely to re-examine how the contact was 
first made when deciding whether to make the payment. In my experience its not uncommon for fraudsters to try and elicit information in such a way that the victim is unaware 
theyve disclosed it.
There were, of course, steps Mr D could have taken that would have uncovered the scam 
relatively quickly, but thats true of many scams. The question here is whether Mr D was 
unreasonable not to have taken any additional steps before making the payment. Monzo 
argue that he could have called his colleague to confirm his identity. But Mr D doesnt seem 
to have been suspicious of the messages (at least not until after the payment) and I think he 
was reasonable not to be. Without any indication that he wasnt communicating with his 
friend, hed have no reason to make contact with him in another way. 
Ive found Mr Ds testimony around why he believed he was communicating with his 
colleague to be persuasive and Ive seen some supporting evidence which suggests that his 
friend had recently moved to the country and was staying in a serviced apartment. So, I dont 
believe he is creating reasons for having made the payment after the fact. Instead, I think 
that due to a very unfortunate set of coincidences and some clever tactics employed by the 
fraudster, Mr D did have a reasonable basis for believing that he was communicating with 
his colleague at the point of making the payment. I also note that he acted prudently when 
the fraudsters communication became more erratic and confused  which further suggests, 
on the whole, he wasnt acting carelessly.
Overall, I think Monzo should refund Mr D in full under the CRM Code. Given that it appears 
Mr D would have otherwise used this money for general spending, I think that simple interest 
should also be paid at 8% per annum. Given the modest size of the payment I see no reason 
why Monzo should have been concerned that Mr D was falling victim to a scam, so interest 
should be paid from the date Monzo declined Mr Ds claim (rather than the date of the 
payment) to the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd and instruct it to pay Mr D:
- £300
- 8% simple interest per annum on that amount from the date Monzo declined Mr Ds 
claim under the CRM Code to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman