DRN-3539295
The complaint
Mr J complains that Charles James Financial Planning Limited (CJFP) gave him unsuitable 
advice to transfer his pension, held with one provider, to a cash investment with another 
provider. He also complains that CJFP failed to meet the terms of its ongoing service 
agreement. 
Mr J is represented in his complaint. But Ill only refer to him in my decision. 
What happened
I understand that in 2015, Mr J became concerned that he wouldnt be able to repay his 
mortgage in 2020. The mortgage was primarily interest only and had a balance of £136,000 
on a property worth around £230,000. As Mr J had heard about the new pension freedoms, 
he made an initial enquiry with CJFP on 24 August 2015. This was followed by another 
meeting on 26 August 2015.
CJFP recorded the new enquiry from Mr J. It noted he was self-employed. And that he 
suffered from poor health so his earnings were erratic. It noted that he had cashed in the 
endowments on his mortgage when hed been unable to work due to a back injury. And that 
he was looking to cash in all his pensions to pay off his mortgage. 
CJFP said that it had advised Mr J that there could be serious tax issues if he did this. And 
suggested this could be done over two to three years to avoid higher rate income tax. It 
noted that hed also asked if he could transfer his occupational pension scheme (OPS), held 
with a previous employer, and then cash that in. 
CJFP said Mr Js only priority was to pay down his mortgage without paying higher rate 
income tax. It felt that Mr J had a genuine concern that he might lose his home. It said it 
completed a Financial Planning Questionnaire with Mr J which he signed on 26 August 
2015. It said it also wrote notes about Mr Js aims and objectives. But that it didnt complete 
a risk assessment at this point as it felt hed need to access some or all of his pension 
proceeds over the next couple of years.  
CJFP recorded the following facts about Mr J:
- He held approximately £100,000 in personal pensions 
- He had an OPS with a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) of around £58,000
- He had a cash ISA of £18,000 
- Mr J had monthly mortgage payments of £558, which took up almost all his monthly 
income.
CJFP said its adviser had outlined alternative options for Mr J, instead of fully cashing in all 
his pensions, and that it had allowed him some time to consider them. CJFP felt that it may 
not be in Mr Js interest to access his OPS, as it didnt necessarily offer good value for 
money, and  if used  would leave nothing for a retirement income. It also needed further 
information from Mr J before it could advise him. Mr J called CJFP on 11 September 2015. 
He said his accountant had said his taxable income for the year was £7,200.
CJFP met with Mr J again on 22 September 2015, when he appointed them as his adviser. 
CJFP obtained details of one of Mr Js personal pension plans on 5 October 2015. This was 
a small plan with a value of less than £1,000 that had a guaranteed annuity rate.
CJFP got details of Mr Js other pension plans in late October 2015. Mr J had two plans with 
one provider  provider A. One of these plans had a transfer value of £1,164. The other had 
a transfer value of £96,399. 
CJFP then got illustrations from the drawdown provider it eventually recommended Mr J 
should transfer to  provider B. It produced a suitability letter dated 4 November 2015 which 
confirmed its recommendation for Mr J to switch his two plans held with provider A to a 
provider B plan through which he could access income drawdown. 
The suitability letter noted that in September 2015, CJFP had submitted an application to 
provider A to transfer the funds from the existing two plans held with provider A to a 
drawdown arrangement with provider B. And to then withdraw tax-free cash of around 
£24,000. After that, Mr J was to take a further income payment so that his overall income for 
the tax year would be just under the higher rate tax threshold. The letter noted that Mr J had 
been aware that this wouldnt fully repay his mortgage. CJFP didnt recommend that Mr Js 
small plan with a guaranteed annuity be transferred due to the guarantee.
The letter said that investment risk hadnt been discussed with Mr J, as the pension would 
be paid out over a few years. So it recommended the transferred funds be put in provider Bs 
deposit fund. It noted that the fund may fall slightly over time due to low interest rates and 
ongoing charges. 
The letter noted that while the transfer was going through, Mr J had told CJFP that he might 
be stopping work to look after his partner, who was suffering from ill health. It also noted that 
Mr J had health issues mainly connected with his back. Mr J told CJFP that, having come to 
understand his options, hed decided to sell his house over the next few months and move to 
Spain. CJFP recorded that in order to be able to buy a property in Spain, Mr J would need 
the proceeds of the sale of his house, as well as the pension proceeds. But that the need 
wouldnt be immediate.
CJFP said it contacted provider B to stop the payment of tax-free cash until Mr Js situation 
was evaluated. And told Mr J that he was now transferring his pensions to them so that he 
could take his tax-free cash when he needed it. It said it was still recommending that pension 
drawdown was suitable as Mr J still wanted to cash in his pension over a few years. It said 
this was why it felt it had made sense to let the transfers complete rather than abort the 
process.
The 4 November 2015 suitability letter also noted that Mr Js priority for the future was the 
regular review of his retirement and investment provision. And said that he should receive 
advice at regular intervals  at least annually - to ensure the recommendations remained 
appropriate. It listed the fees for the advice to transfer as 3% for the initial advice. And 0.5% 
each year for the ongoing advice service. 
On 12 November 2015, CJFP contacted Mr J to confirm that the funds from provider A had 
been received by provider B. And told him he should let it know when he wanted to access 
the funds. Mr J signed the suitability letter on 20 November 2015.On 11 January 2016, Mr J called CJFP to let them know that his move to Spain may not be 
going ahead. He told them he was now getting benefits. CJFP arranged a meeting for 13 
January 2016 to go over his options with him.
On 13 January 2016, Mr J called CJFP just before his appointment to cancel the meeting for 
personal reasons. He told CJFP that both he and his partner were out of work due to ill 
health. And that theyd both applied for benefits which could be affected by pension income.
Mr J also told CJFP that thered been no interest in his house. CJFP said he needed to 
check what effect taking tax-free cash would have on his benefit claim. It said he also 
needed to check separately about whether pension drawdown would affect his benefit claim. 
Mr J told CJFP the move to Spain looked increasingly unlikely. 
On 12 February 2016 Mr J called CJFP to tell them there was still no interest in his house 
sale. And that his partner had left him. He said hed qualified for higher level disability and 
PIP. And told CJFP what benefits he was getting each week. These amounted to around 
£300 a week, in addition to council tax relief and mortgage interest payments. CJFPs notes 
recorded that Mr J understood that his benefits would be reduced if he had more than 
£6,000 of savings, which he was close to. And that any income withdrawals from his pension 
would also have a direct impact. 
CJFP noted that Mr J told it he now might want to use most of his tax-free cash to buy a new 
car. It said it reminded him that this would further reduce his capacity to clear his mortgage. 
CJFP also noted that Mr Js pension fund with provider B had yet to be accessed, but was 
still held in cash due to the original short-term nature of his plans. 
Mr J also called CJFP on 22 March 2016. In that call he told it his health had deteriorated, 
and that he was now using a wheelchair and crutches. CJFP noted that, given Mr Js level of 
benefits, it was difficult to justify taking money out of the pension in the current tax year. It 
agreed that it would meet him in late April 2016 for an update. It also noted that Mr Js 
pension was still held in cash, but that was reasonable in the circumstances as it was going 
to be withdrawn.
The next review was held on 26 April 2016 in Mr Js home. CJFP looked at using drawdown 
with provider B to facilitate selective repayment of elements of Mr Js mortgage.
CJFP provided this service with a copy of the handwritten review notes it took. These said 
that Mr J had no working income. It listed the benefits he was on and both his mortgage 
payments and outstanding mortgage balance. 
CJFP wrote to Mr J on 29 April 2016 after completing the review. It gave details about the 
three sub-accounts in his mortgage. And noted that if Mr J were to access £11,000 of his 
pension funds with provider B he could fully repay one of the sub-accounts, and partially 
repay one of the others. It said that this would reduce Mr Js monthly payments by about 
£200 each month without affecting the mortgage interest payment benefit he received. CJFP 
said that although Mr J felt that his benefits were sufficient to live off, paying off his mortgage 
in this way would boost his disposable income.
CJFP also told Mr J that his pension was still wholly invested in cash. It said it generally 
recommended cash where the timescale was less than five years as investment can 
fluctuate in value. But that if Mr J was investing for more than five years, he should consider 
at least some exposure to the stock-market, depending on his attitude to risk. It said it would 
consider this point again at the next review meeting. 
Mr J signed and dated the April 2016 letter on 10 June 2016.Mr J told CJFP on 28 June 2016 that hed had his benefits increased. CJFP said that if his 
savings were building up too much it could consider pension contributions to keep his 
savings below the point where his benefits would be affected. 
On 5 September 2016 CJFP told Mr J that accessing his pension funds to pay down his 
mortgage would be better done closer to the end of the mortgage term in 2020.
On 23 August 2017, Mr J called CJFP to tell them hed been offered £6,600 for his personal 
injury claim. CJFP suggested a review should be held in September 2017. Ive not been 
provided with any information relating to a review in September 2017. 
Mr J had a review meeting with CJFP on 21 June 2018. He completed a risk questionnaire 
at this time. This showed that he was identified as a risk profile 1 - very-low risk  investor. 
CJFP said itd explained the downsides of being invested in cash. But that Mr J still felt that 
he couldnt take any investment risk at least until his state pension age.
Handwritten meeting notes said that the risk questionnaire had determined that the cash 
fund was reasonable for now. And recorded that Mr J had looked into equity release for his 
house. It said he could get £85,000. His mortgage debt was £114,000 at this point. The 
notes also recorded that Mr J was considering selling his house and buying a boat. And said 
that his pensions needed to be kept intact and flexible until hed decided what to do. 
The notes also recorded that any income Mr J took from his pension would risk affecting his 
benefits, which were more than adequate for his income needs. And that he needed the 
security his OPS benefit provided. 
Mr J signed and dated the form on 24 June 2018. I understand that Mr Js representative 
has questioned the date and the signature. CJFP said that the meeting was held at its 
offices on 21 June 2018, and that Mr J signed in under the incorrect date of 24 June 2018. 
CJFP wrote to Mr J on 19 December 2018 to confirm his wish to drawdown his remaining 
tax- free cash in order to facilitate the purchase of a car which would help with his mobility 
requirements. It said his remaining funds would be invested as before, as thered been no 
change to his attitude to risk, or aims and objectives. I understand that this was arranged 
and completed on 2 January 2019.
CJFP has also provided this service with its notes from a phone call it had with Mr J on 1 
July 2019. It recorded that he was buying a boat to live on from the person who was buying 
his house. And that after the sales had completed, and the mortgage had been paid off, hed 
have the boat plus £47,000.
CJFP called Mr J on 3 September 2019 as his review was due. He told them his house sale 
had completed. But he was still living in it rent free. And that his boat was having some work 
done. Mr J said he didnt want a review at this time. 
On 12 June 2020, Mr J called CJFP about his annual review. He told it that his doctor 
suspected he had cancer. He said he was now living on his boat and that he had about 
£4,000 in the bank. And that his benefits were adequate for his daily living. He said that his 
state pension was due in September 2021 and he wanted to discuss his options. CJFP said 
he was due a review in July 2020 and that it would contact him about that, but that he could 
call before then if needed. 
CJFP produced a report dated 14 July 2020 which it said replaced its earlier portfolio 
summaries. This stated that the current value of Mr Js plan with provider B was £71,224.23 
and that it was all in an income release account. It said Mr Js risk attitude was that of a cash investor. And that his funds were invested in the deposit account. It also stated the plans 
charges, which were around 0.45% of the value of the plan each year. 
The report covered Mr Js retirement income options, including his income drawdown option 
and an annuity option. 
CJFP called Mr J on 6 August 2020. He told them he was expecting to have surgery at the 
end of the month, but wanted to have a review after that. Mr J told CJFP he wanted to keep 
his benefits unaffected. And said he would write to his OPS provider to defer his benefits 
from that arrangement to September 2021 to coincide with his state pension. 
I understand that Mr J was unexpectedly taken to hospital around June 2021. At this stage 
he asked his representative to review his financial affairs. A complaint was raised on Mr Js 
behalf with CJFP on 14 August 2021.
Mr J made the following complaint points:
1. CJFPs standards of professionalism and competence had fallen short of the 
requirements for a regulated financial adviser. And this had led to bad advice and 
poor service
2. CJFP hadnt delivered the service hed paid it for
3. Its 2015 advice to transfer his pension from provider A to provider B had been 
unsuitable 
4. The investment product itd advised wasnt appropriate for his needs, or for a 
pension, so the investment advice was unsuitable
5. CJFPs advice for him to withdraw tax-free cash on two separate occasions was 
careless and unsuitable as it didnt consider alternatives to him depleting his lifetime 
savings
6. CJFP had inconvenienced him by refusing to provide him with information he 
properly requested on four separate occasions. This had contributed to his anxiety 
and stress whilst he was seriously ill. 
7. CJFP hadnt considered a transfer of Mr Js OPS since 2015, but it shouldve done.
Mr J also said he had serious concerns about the Risk Questionnaire dated 24 June 2018.
Mr Js representative felt there was no evidence that CJFP had treated Mr J as a vulnerable 
customer. He said that the long letters itd sent Mr J had gone unread. And he was entirely 
reliant on verbal Information itd given him.
Mr J wanted to be put back to the position he wouldve been in but for the unsuitable advice. 
And he also wanted compensation for the distress and inconvenience both he and his 
representative had suffered. 
CJFP issued its final response to the complaint on 30 September 2021. It didnt think it had 
done anything wrong. It considered each of the complaint points Mr J had raised, as follows: 
1. It felt it had acted professionally and competently. It detailed all of the meetings and 
calls itd had with Mr J. It felt these showed that it had carried out adequate 
preparation for the 29 April 2016 suitability letter and the 19 December 2018 suitability letter. CJFP also said that although Mr J had disclosed his health issues at 
various points, the earliest point hed disclosed a potentially life-threatening illness 
was June 2020.
2. It felt it had delivered the service Mr J had paid for. 
3. It felt its 2015 advice to transfer Mr Js pension from provider A to provider B had 
been suitable.
4. CJFP felt that its advice for Mr J to invest in the deposit fund was appropriate.
5. It also felt that its advice to withdraw tax-free cash on two separate occasions was 
suitable.  
6. It explained why it had required some form of Power of Attorney to be in place before 
it would discuss Mr Js situation with his representative. It didnt think it had acted 
unfairly. 
7. It felt that it had fairly considered and dismissed a transfer of Mr Js OPS in 2015. 
And noted that it hadnt been made aware that Mr Js health had deteriorated to such 
an extent that it might be considered life-threatening until June 2020. It said that he 
hadnt told it he was on 18 different medications, or that he had liver problems before 
then. It also noted that Mr J had considered himself physically well enough to live on 
a boat. 
CJFP also responded to Mr Js concerns about the Risk Questionnaire dated 24 June 2018. 
It noted that Mr Js representative had met with him on 13 August 2021 to discuss his 
recollections of the service it had provided. But said that its adviser had been present at the 
meeting during which the questionnaire had been completed  which had actually been held 
on 21 June 2018. It said that Mr J had attended its office on that day. And that it had 
reviewed its visitor record archive and could confirm that Mr J signed in at noon and signed 
out at 1:20pm. It said the date hed recorded there was 24/6. CJFP felt this showed that Mr 
J had believed it was the 24 June 2018 when hed visited its office on 21 June 2018. It also 
felt that Mr J had signed the documents from that date with the same incorrect date that hed 
recorded in its visitors book.
CJFP said its adviser had recorded notes and witnessed Mr Js signature on those notes, as 
well as on the Risk Profile Questionnaire, on 21 June 2018. 
Unhappy with CJFPs response, Mr J brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator issued her first view on 22 April 2022. Although she didnt uphold any of the 
other complaint points, she felt that CJFP hadnt delivered the ongoing service Mr J had paid 
it for in 2017 and 2021.  To put things right, she felt that CJFP should put Mr J as close as 
possible to the position he would probably now be in if he hadnt paid the ongoing fees in 
those years.
CJFP didnt agree with our investigator. It said that the call note its adviser had made on 23 
August 2017, when Mr J had notified it of a personal injury claim offer, had discussed a 
review meeting in September. And that it had also hand-delivered a portfolio summary to Mr 
J that month, and had a brief discussion with him at that point in which it had told Mr J to 
make contact with it when he was ready to book in his review meeting.
It said it hadnt formally documented every call with Mr J. But its adviser had followed up with 
Mr J. And that a review meeting was finally agreed the following June 2018.CJFP also noted that no 2021 review had taken place as Mr Js representative had denied it 
access to him during his first conversation with it on 27 July 2021. It provided evidence that 
all ongoing adviser charges had been removed with provider B on 26 July 2021. And that as 
the review was due in August 2021, it hadnt had the chance to carry it out. It felt it wouldve 
been a pivotal review, given Mr J was due to start receiving his state pension from 
September 2021. But said that Mr Js representative had told it its services were no longer 
required.
Our investigator considered the new information from CJFP. And issued her second view on 
17 May 2021. She said that the further information had caused her to change her view. And 
that on balance the evidence indicated that CJFP had done enough in respect of the annual 
review in 2017. She also felt it couldn't have conducted the annual review in 2021 as itd 
been removed as advisers from the plan at that point. 
Mr J didnt agree with our investigator. He still didnt agree that the original advice to transfer 
his pension had been suitable. He made the following points:
- The reason for the transfer was to repay his mortgage. But even a full withdrawal of 
the pension savings wouldnt have achieved this objective. He felt he had no other 
means to repay the remaining mortgage.
- He said that no assessment had been made of his financial needs in retirement. In 
his view, that meant that the advice couldnt be said to be suitable. He questioned 
what he was supposed to live on after using up all his pension.
- He felt the only suitable advice was to downsize and repay his mortgage, as this 
wouldve kept his pension savings intact for his later life. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be disappointing to Mr J. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision. 
Before I start, Id like to say Im very sorry for the health issues Mr J has suffered, and is 
currently suffering. 
Although Ive listed each complaint point above, and every point Mr J made in response to 
our investigators second view, I wont respond directly to every single point hes made in 
support of his complaint. I have, of course, considered each and every point both CJFP and 
Mr J have made in my decision.
Ive considered each of Mr Js complaint points separately, starting with his complaint that 
CJFP didnt deliver the service hed paid for. 
Did CJFP deliver the service Mr J had paid for?
CJFP charged Mr J 0.5% of his fund value each year for its ongoing service. It was taken 
monthly from his pension with provider B. 
Mr J said that under CJFPs Terms and Conditions of Business, which he signed on 22 September 2015, the section: "Financial Objectives (Demands and Needs) had stated:
"Following the issuing of these terms any subsequent advice or recommendation offered to 
you will be based on your stated objectives, acceptable level of risk and any restrictions you 
wish to place on the transaction. Details of your stated objectives will be included in your 
suitability letter... and we will point out the key disadvantages".
Mr J also said that CJFPs client proposition document had defined its service as: "face to 
face meetings every year, arranged by you to review the clients circumstances. It will suit 
clients with significant investments or complex financial requirements".
He also said it said that at the review CJFP would: review your personal circumstance, 
update your records, re-appraise your financial objectives and provide updates on how your 
plans and policies have performed".
Mr J didnt consider that CJFP had delivered this service. He felt there was no evidence to 
support its claim that it had met face to face with him on at least five occasions. He also felt 
that the evidence hed seen showed that CJFP hadnt fully carried out the activities 
described in its service proposition and terms of business document each year.
CJFP said that, after Mr J signed up for its service in September 2015, the first review 
meeting was carried out on 26 April 2016. It provided evidence of meeting notes recorded by 
its adviser. And noted that a suitability letter dated 29 April 2016 had been issued. It also 
said a copy of the suitability letter had been signed by Mr J on 10 June 2016.
I acknowledge that Mr J doesnt consider that every aspect of CJFPs service proposition 
had been met. But, from what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the 2016 review was fairly carried 
out.
CJFP also said that the call note its adviser had made on 23 August 2017 had discussed a 
review meeting in September 2017. And that it had also hand-delivered a portfolio summary 
dated August 2017 to Mr J. It said it had a brief discussion with Mr J when it had done so 
during which it had told him to contact it when he wanted to book in his review meeting.
From what Ive seen, CJFP did briefly speak to Mr J in person at this time. But it didnt carry 
out that years review in August 2017. Instead, it tried to arrange a review for the following 
month. I think this is reasonable as Mr J had just informed CJFP that hed been offered an 
amount for his personal injury claim. But he was still waiting for that to be finalised. It 
wouldve been useful for Mr J to know exactly what he was going to receive before his 2017 
review was carried out. So I can see why the review was suggested for September 2017. 
And Im satisfied that CJFP did tell Mr J that he should contact it as soon as he wanted to 
book his review meeting. Ive seen no evidence that Mr J tried to contact CJFP for that 
review. But I dont consider it should be held responsible for that, as it was outside of its 
control. Overall, I consider that CJFP met its service obligations in 2017. 
From what Ive seen, Mr J had his 2018 review meeting with CJFP on 21 June 2018. I 
acknowledge that Mr J has questioned the date of this meeting, but I consider that CJFP has 
provided sufficient evidence to satisfy me that the meeting was held on that date. 
I also acknowledge that Mr J said he felt the risk profile CJFP said hed completed looked 
odd. And that he had no recollection of completing it. He said hed never had a problem with 
investing in the past. And that hed had several pensions which were invested in balanced 
investment portfolios. He said hed also directly owned and dealt in shares in the past. And 
had invested in endowment policies. Ive carefully considered the points Mr J has made. And what CJFP has said in response. 
From all the evidence provided, Im satisfied that the 2018 review was fairly carried out. And 
that the risk profile was fairly conducted. I say this because at that time, there was still 
ongoing uncertainty about Mr Js plans. So I dont consider the risk profile CJFP recorded to 
be out of line with what I wouldve expected.  
CJFP said itd called Mr J on 3 September 2019 as his review was due. It said its phone note 
confirmed that Mr J had declined the 2019 review. Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im 
persuaded that it was Mr Js decision not to have a review at this point.  
CJFP said that Mr J called them on 12 June 2020 about his annual review. A report dated 14 
July 2020 was produced. CJFP said this had replaced the earlier portfolio summaries itd 
provided. And that itd intended to discuss it with Mr J during his review meeting. 
CJFP spoke to Mr J again on 6 August 2020 and attempted to arrange that years review. Mr 
J said he wanted to have a review after his impending surgery. It said he said he would 
contact it to set up the review, but at that time he didnt have a firm date for his surgery. 
CJFP said that its notes showed that its adviser had offered the opportunity for a formal 
review. But that Mr J hadnt taken up the offer. 
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that CJFP took reasonable steps to arrange an annual 
review in 2020. 
CJFP has told this service that no 2021 review had taken place due to it having been 
removed as Mr Js adviser before the review was due to be scheduled. 
As the 2021 review was due after CJFP had been removed as Mr Js adviser, Im satisfied 
that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to require it to refund Mr J the advisory fees for that 
year.
Overall, I consider that CJFP did deliver the service Mr J had paid for. And I dont uphold this 
part of the complaint. 
I next considered whether CJFPs 2015 advice to transfer Mr Js pension from provider A to 
provider B had been suitable. And whether it had been appropriate to advise Mr J to invest in 
the deposit fund after the transfer. I also considered CJFPs two tax-free cash withdrawal 
recommendations in this section.
Was the 2015 advice suitable? Did the cash investment remain suitable? And was the 
advice CJFP gave on the two tax-free cash withdrawals suitable?  
Mr J considers that the advice CJFP gave him in 2015 to transfer his pension from provider 
A to provider B was unsuitable. He said the advice was unsuitable for the following reasons:
- The recommended course of action wouldnt allow him to pay off his mortgage. He 
said there was no plan for how the shortfall would be addressed. He also felt no 
alternative options had been considered  for example, downsizing, remortgaging, or 
equity release. 
- The pensions with provider A were Mr Js only savings for retirement apart from his 
small OPS and his state pension. He said the OPS benefit was £3,144 each year 
from November 2020. And his state pension was due in November 2021. He felt 
CJFP hadnt assessed his retirement plans and how using his pensions with provider 
A would affect them.- He said CJFP hadnt undertaken a risk profile with him in 2015. Or considered his 
priorities. He said both sections had been left blank on the fact find.
- The original reason for the advice  the repayment of the mortgage  disappeared 
when hed decided to sell his house. He felt CJFP shouldve stopped the transfer of 
his pensions at this point. 
- His circumstances had changed significantly due to his and his partners ill health 
and his decision to sell his house and move to Spain. He said the suitability letter, 
dated 4 November 2015, had been produced before hed told it about those changes 
on 12 November 2015. And that he hadnt received the suitability letter until after his 
pension had transferred. He felt CJFP shouldve reassessed his circumstances and 
stopped the pension transfer. But said that it hadnt attempted to find out anything 
more about the proposed move to Spain. 
- He felt that CJFP had made no attempt to assess his income needs either then or in 
the future. And noted that although CJFP had identified that taking funds from the 
pension might affect his partners benefits, and any benefits he might be entitled to, it 
still recommended he proceeded with the transfer. 
- Mr J felt that he shouldnt have been advised to invest in cash after the transfer. He 
felt no pension adviser recommended using cash to save for a pension. He said hed 
been invested suitably with provider A. He felt there had been a number of 
opportunities over the last few years for CJFP to have revised its initial 
recommendation. 
- Mr J also felt that CJFP shouldve have advised him to withdraw tax-free cash on the 
two separate occasions he had done so. He felt the advice had been careless and 
unsuitable as he didnt think CJFP had considered alternative ways he could meet 
his needs, without depleting his lifetime savings.
CJFP said that Mr J had initially told its adviser that he wanted to transfer his OPS and his 
personal pensions to a drawdown arrangement. He felt that the total cash raised would allow 
repayment of the mortgage. But that after various options had been discussed, theyd 
agreed not to transfer the OPS as it had valuable guarantees. Its adviser had also explained 
that if Mr J encashed all of his pensions in the same tax year, he would be charged penal 
income tax. He also noted that Mr J would need some income in retirement to supplement 
his state pension. CJFP said that Mr J had agreed to transferring just his personal pensions 
with provider A into provider B. 
CJFP said that if Mr J had proceeded with a full withdrawal of his pension funds, the 
mortgage shortfall of around £60,000 was going to be addressed by his plan to increase his 
business income. It said hed expressed a desire to ramp up his business income as soon 
as he was able. 
It also said that it did discuss the option of a re-mortgage. But that it was dismissed due to 
Mr Js low level of income. However, its adviser did suggest that Mr J contacted his 
mortgage provider directly to see if there were any products available to consider.
It also said that during the initial meetings it became clear that Mr Js outgoings were far 
greater than his income. It was noted that Mr J was making a voluntary overpayment of £150 
each month on his mortgage, which he said he would stop as it was unaffordable. CJFP said 
that its adviser felt that reviewing Mr Js outgoings in any more detail at this stage wasnt 
constructive as there was such a large disparity.  CJFP said that when it made the initial recommendation, Mr J was likely to withdraw the 
entire fund over a period of not more than three years. And that he was considered to be a 
cash investor. It said that when Mr Js circumstances changed, it had considered and 
confirmed that he was still a cash investor. It said this was because it wouldnt usually justify 
any investment which was for a period of less than five years at outset.
CJFP said that the Financial Planning Questionnaire it used had provided prompts to 
discuss Mr Js priorities. And that it had recorded his priorities in the notes section of the 
questionnaire.
It said that when Mr Js circumstances had changed, between August 2015 and November 
2015, its adviser had discussed the merits of stopping the transfer process, against the 
expectation that Mr J might still soon need access to his pension funds. It said that hed 
been clear that although the reason for accessing his pension had changed, it was extremely 
likely that a withdrawal would be made. It said Mr J had wanted his pension fund in a 
contract which allowed him to do that without having to start the process again. And that it 
had explained this point in the 4 November 2015 suitability letter.
CJFP said that its file note of 12 November 2015 had confirmed that it had discussed Mr Js 
change of circumstances, which it had included in the suitability letter dated 4 November 
2015. It said this showed that its adviser had been aware of Mr Js changed circumstances. 
CJFP also said there were no details about Mr Js proposed move to Spain as it was simply 
his latest idea at the time. It said Mr J was adamant that he wanted flexible access to some 
of his pensions, regardless of where he lived. CJFP said that once potential benefits Mr J 
might be entitled to had been brought up, it had always considered whether any of its 
recommendations would impact his ability to qualify for those benefits. It said that its adviser 
had repeatedly discussed with Mr J that any action in relation to accessing pension money 
had to be considered in the context of checking how it might affect his benefits. It said hed 
understood this well over time.
CJFP said that it had discussed at length with Mr J the implications of taking withdrawals 
and how this would erode the capital value of his pension fund. And that this could result in a 
lower income in retirement. It said it had stated this in the 4 November 2015 suitability letter.
Ive carefully considered what both parties have told this service on these complaint points. 
I can see that Mr J had done some independent research into his pensions before he 
approached CJFP in August 2015. Hed got valuations from provider A and a CETV for his 
OPS. From what Ive seen, it was clear that in both August 2015 meetings Mr Js main 
objective in seeking the advice was to pay off his outstanding mortgage.
CJFPs initial assessment of Mr Js assets and income showed that he didnt have enough to 
pay off his mortgage balance. I note that it did record an ISA balance of £18,000 in its initial 
fact find, but this wasnt ever referenced in its later suitability letters. I agree with our 
investigator that it shouldve been included as part of Mr Js financial assessment. But as I 
wouldnt have expected CJFP to recommend Mr J used up all his cash reserves, I dont 
consider its consideration wouldve changed the advice. The mortgage had to be repaid in 
five years time. And from the information CJFP had gathered, there was no alternative 
method of repayment available other than Mr Js personal pensions.
Mr J planned to retire at his state pension age, which was at that point around seven years 
away. CJFP did consider if a re-mortgage would be possible. But dismissed that option as 
being unlikely to be possible given Mr Js low income. I consider this to have been a 
reasonable conclusion under the circumstances. I can see that the recommendation to transfer the pensions and then access the funds 
through drawdown wouldnt have provided enough capital to cover the outstanding 
mortgage. But I dont agree that the advice to use drawdown to enable Mr J to significantly 
reduce his mortgage was unsuitable. Had he done as CJFP had recommended, Mr J 
wouldve had a much lower remaining mortgage. I consider that this wouldve put him in a 
better position to restructure his remaining loan in a way that better suited his finances at 
that time. 
I can also see that CJFP advised Mr J to keep his OPS and his other personal pension that 
had guarantees attached. I note that the benefits CJFP advised Mr J to retain, alongside his 
state pension benefit, were projected to provide him with a retirement income which was 
bigger than his current earnings. So I dont agree that CJFP failed to assess Mr Js 
retirement plans and how using his pensions with provider A would affect them.
I also note that Mr Js pensions with provider A didnt have a drawdown option. So the only 
options open to him to access his benefits directly were if he took an open market option 
annuity or a full lump sum payment, which wouldve attracted the higher rate of income tax 
he wanted to avoid. I also note that the charges on Mr Js plans with provider A were similar 
to, although slightly lower than, those on the recommended plan with provider B if CJFPs 
ongoing service charge of 0.5% is included. 
Therefore, although the recommended transfer was slightly more expensive than the existing 
plans overall, ongoing advice would now be included. And, from what Ive seen, the reasons 
behind the recommendation were reasonable, as the transfer would allow Mr J to access his 
pension funds without paying the higher rate of income tax.
I acknowledge that the transfer did come at the cost of the initial adviser fee of 3% of the 
funds transferred. But I consider that this was a reasonable charge for the advice, and the 
work CJFP had to do to make its recommendation. I say this because Im satisfied that the 
recommendation to transfer into a product which offered drawdown was likely to make Mr J 
better off overall as it would allow him to avoid the penal income tax he would otherwise 
have had to pay if hed followed his own proposed course of action to cash in all his 
pensions in one go. 
I acknowledge that Mr Js circumstances had changed before he received the suitability 
letter dated 4 November 2015. This led to CJFP cancelling the drawdown requests with 
provider B, but not the overall transfer. It felt the transfer was still suitable, as was the 
investment in cash, as it appeared Mr J would need access to his pension funds in the 
relatively short term. 
At the time that Mr J told CJFP about his and his partners ill health, and his decision to sell 
his house and move to Spain, his income seemed likely to decrease. This wouldve put 
additional pressure on his ability to make his mortgage payments before hed been able to 
sell his house. Mr Js new plans were also likely to require some additional funding. 
Therefore, although Ive not seen evidence that CJFP carried out any analysis about Mr Js 
new circumstances, I dont consider that it was bad advice to continue with the transfer and 
the investment into cash. I say this because it would allow Mr J to flexibly access the funds 
he might require for his new plans. And if the transfer hadnt gone ahead, he wouldnt have 
had such access to his pension savings. Ive also seen no evidence that Mr Js new 
circumstances shouldve led CJFP to believe that his timeframe for investment was now over 
the minimum of five years it generally required in order to recommend investments other 
than cash.
Regarding the continued cash holding, CJFP said that it often recommended that clients 
make cash contingencies for shorter term needs. It said it had been entirely appropriate for Mr J until the nature of short-term ongoing access had been verified and clarified. It said that 
thered been an increasing chance that Mr J would change his plans. And that he had done, 
as hed sold his home and bought a boat.
CJFP said that although Mr Js initial reason for investing in cash had been to pay off his 
mortgage, it had developed into a need to safely hold the money while a coherent plan was 
formulated. 
CJFP also said that its April 2016 review had focussed on what benefits Mr J was receiving 
and which parts of his mortgage accounts were having the interest paid by those benefits. It 
then determined whether some tax-free cash from his pension with provider B could be used 
to improve his cash flow. It also said that as Mr J had very little non-pension cash savings, it 
had agreed to keep his pension fund in cash until at least the next review.
It said it had continually revisited Mr Js cash investment. And that the 2018 review meeting 
had revisited whether to retain the pension fund in cash or invest it differently. It said the risk 
profile that Mr J had completed at this meeting confirmed that he was exceedingly risk 
averse. It felt this made sense given what hed been through over the last three years. It said 
that its adviser had taken the time to carefully question the results. And that he and Mr J had 
written the following statement together:
[Mr J] cannot afford or want to take any risks. Explained downside of cash (charges, 
inflation) and he still feels that he cannot take any investment risk at least until his state 
pension age.
It said it had followed its Risk Profile guidance which said that anyone who answered the 
questions in the way Mr J had should be kept in cash. 
Mr J told CJFP of a further change in his circumstances in January 2016, which couldve 
changed the timing of his need for his pension funds. He and his partner had both applied for 
benefits which he felt could be affected by pension income. Hed also had no interest in his 
house sale, and wasnt sure if he would now move to Spain. CJFP arranged a meeting to 
review his pension, but Mr J cancelled it. Although I can see that Mr Js revised 
circumstances mightve led to a change to his recommended investments, it wasnt possible 
for CJFP to carry out the review it tried to arrange at this time. So I cant fairly hold it 
responsible for not considering the investments at this point. 
Mr Js next review was carried out at the end of April 2016. Hed recently told CJFP that 
thered been further changes to his circumstances. His health had worsened, in that he now 
had mobility issues, and his partner had left him. He now knew what benefits he would be 
getting. And wanted to use some of his pension fund to buy a new car to help with his 
mobility issues.
In this review, CJFP looked at using drawdown with provider B to facilitate selective 
repayment of elements of Mr Js mortgage. It advised Mr J to access £11,000 of his tax-free 
cash from provider B so that he could substantially reduce his monthly mortgage payments, 
without affecting the benefits he received. This would boost his income by £200 a month. 
During the 2016 review, CJFP told Mr J that his pension was still wholly invested in cash. 
And noted that it generally recommended cash where the timescale for future investment 
was less than five years. But that if Mr J wanted to invest for more than five years, he should 
consider at least some exposure to the stock-market. It said it would review this position at 
the next review.
Mr J said that CJFP shouldve explored other options to reduce his mortgage repayments, for example, contacting his mortgage provider to negotiate different terms, extending the 
term of his mortgage, or downsizing. He felt he couldve achieved the same outcome without 
using up some of his pension savings. 
CJFP said that Mr Js mortgage was interest only. And that hed previously cashed in the 
endowments hed had that had been designed to repay it. It said it had previously 
considered  and discounted as unlikely  other options such as extending the term or 
negotiating different mortgage terms. It said that Mr J had been unsuccessful in his attempt 
to sell his house at a price which would give him sufficient equity to downsize mortgage-free. 
Ive carefully considered what both parties have said, and the evidence provided. From what 
Ive seen, I consider that CJFPs advice to take £11,000 of tax-free cash at this point and for 
this purpose was sound. I say this because Im also not persuaded that any of the other 
options Mr J said shouldve been considered wouldve been viable. I also note that the 
withdrawal didnt impact Mr Js benefits. And it did lead to a £200 boost to his monthly 
income.
I also consider that although it was now unclear exactly when, or for what purpose, Mr J 
would need to withdraw his remaining pension funds, CJFP did make it clear to him that he 
was fully invested in cash. And it explained that it felt this was reasonable as long as his 
timescale for future investment was less than five years. And said it would review this 
position next time. 
I consider that it was still unclear whether Mr Js house would be sold or not. This meant that 
his original reason for getting the advice  to assist with the repayment of his mortgage by 
2020  was still relevant. With that in mind, I consider that CJFP didnt do anything wrong 
when it explained why if felt Mr Js investment in cash was still reasonable. 
As noted above, Mr J didnt arrange his September 2017 review meeting. Since his last 
review, hed told CJFP that hed had his benefits increased. Hed also discussed with CJFP 
when the best time to pay down his mortgage would be. And in August 2017, Mr J had told 
CJFP that hed had a financial offer for his personal injury claim. 
As Ive already noted, I dont consider CJFP was responsible for there being no September 
2017 review meeting. Therefore I dont consider that it shouldve done anything differently 
here.
Mr J had his next review meeting with CJFP on 21 June 2018, when he completed a risk 
questionnaire which identified him as a cash investor. CJFP said that although itd explained 
the downsides of being invested in cash, Mr J had still felt that he couldnt take any 
investment risk until his state pension age at the earliest. Mr J still needed to ensure that his 
benefits werent affected by any other income. 
Notes taken at the time of the review recorded that Mr J had looked into equity release for 
his house. And that this wouldve yielded £85,000. The notes also recorded that Mr J was 
considering buying a boat to live in after hed sold his house. Given the uncertainty about Mr 
Js plans, his pensions needed to be kept intact and flexible until hed decided what to do. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont consider that CJFP gave Mr J unsuitable advice to 
remain invested in cash at this point. I say this because Im satisfied that it still looked likely 
that he would need access to his pension funds in the near future. 
Mr J asked CJFP in December 2018 to arrange the drawdown of his remaining tax-free cash 
from provider B. As hed first noted in 2016, he wanted to buy a car to help him with his 
mobility requirements. CJFPs notes recorded that it told Mr J this level of withdrawal wasnt sustainable. It also said that his remaining funds would be invested as before. The 
withdrawal was arranged and completed in January 2019. In line with the 2016 withdrawal of 
tax-free cash, it didnt affect Mr Js state benefits. 
Mr J said that although CJFP had warned him that a withdrawal of this size was 
unsustainable, itd still proceeded with the transaction, without considering or suggesting any 
alternatives. He felt it couldve looked into the government schemes which were available to 
support individuals with mobility issues. Or that it couldve suggested Mr J had his existing 
vehicle modified at a lower cost.
CJFP said it had given Mr J strong advice that the withdrawal was unwise. But that it had 
acknowledged that it was his money, which he could withdraw if he wanted to. It said its 
adviser did discuss and question Mr Js genuine need for a new vehicle against his desire for 
something new. And that he hadnt wanted to adapt his existing vehicle.
I acknowledge that there are government schemes to support individuals with mobility 
issues. But I consider that advice on such schemes was outside of CJFPs remit as Mr Js 
financial advisers. 
From what Ive seen, Mr J had no other way of buying the car he needed. His savings were 
below £6,000 so that his benefits werent impacted. And he had no viable options to 
restructure his mortgage to access funds. So Im satisfied that his only option of buying the 
car he said he needed was to drawdown some of his pension funds. I also note that Mr J 
signed a statement on 20 December 2018 which confirm that he himself had decided to 
withdraw the remaining tax-free cash. And that he was aware of the implications of doing so. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that CJFP didnt act inappropriately when it proceeded with the 
transaction Mr J had requested. 
Having now considered both of the two separate tax-free cash withdrawals, I dont agree that 
CJFPs advice on these was careless or unsuitable. And I dont agree that it didnt consider 
alternative ways Mr J could meet his needs. So I dont uphold this part of the complaint. 
Mr J told CJFP on 1 July 2019 that he was buying a boat to live on from the person who was 
buying his house. He said hed have the boat plus £47,000 once the sales had completed. 
As his 2019 review needed to be arranged, CJFP called Mr J on 3 September 2019. He 
confirmed the sale had now completed. And said he didnt want a review. 
I consider that it wouldve been useful for Mr J to have had a review at this point. It may have 
ended up being a sensible time to consider investing the remaining pension funds. But as 
CJFP didnt have access to the further information it would need to carry out that review, I 
dont consider it did anything wrong here. 
Mr J called CJFP on 12 June 2020 about an annual review. From what Ive seen, this was 
the first point that hed told it that his health conditions may be life-threatening. Mr J said that 
as his state pension was due the following year, he wanted to discuss his options. 
CJFP produced a report dated 14 July 2020 which contained information about Mr Js 
pension with provider B. The report covered Mr Js retirement income options. CJFP said it 
intended to discuss the report with Mr J at his next review.
CJFP called Mr J on 6 August 2020. He wanted to arrange his review after his impending 
surgery, but he didnt know when that would be. He told CJFP that he wanted to keep his 
benefits unaffected. And that he intended to defer his OPS benefits to coincide with his state 
pension. He said hed contact CJFP again to book his review once hed had the surgery.From what Ive seen, Mr J didnt contact CJFP to book the review. I consider that a review 
wouldve been particularly useful at this point, as it was the first point that CJFP knew the 
extent of Mr Js health issues. As such, this shouldve led it to review the advice it had given 
Mr J on his OPS benefits. 
However, I can see why Mr J didnt want to arrange for the review until after his surgery. But 
Ive seen no evidence that he ever tried to contact CJFP to arrange the review. As CJFP 
couldnt complete the review, I dont consider it did anything wrong. 
As noted earlier, Mr J terminated his arrangement with CJFP before it could arrange his 
2021 review. As such, I dont consider that it did anything wrong when it didnt carry out that 
review.
Having considered all of the documented contacts between Mr J and CJFP, Ive not found 
evidence that the 2015 advice to transfer from provider A to provider B in order to access 
drawdown was unsuitable. 
Having also considered each point of review, Im persuaded that it remained likely that Mr J 
would need to access his pension funds in the short term. Im also satisfied that he 
continued to have a very low attitude to risk throughout the time CJFP acted as his adviser. 
Therefore I consider that it was reasonable that Mr Js pension funds remained invested in 
cash throughout this time. 
I also consider that CJFP acted fairly and reasonably for both of Mr Js two tax-free cash 
withdrawals. So I dont uphold any of the complaints Ive considered in this section.
I next considered whether it was fair and reasonable that CJFP hadnt considered a transfer 
of Mr Js OPS since 2015.
Should CJFP have considered a transfer of Mr Js OPS benefits after 2015?
I note that CJFP raised a concern that the failure to consider a transfer of Mr Js OPS was 
covered in the initial meeting of 26 August 2015 and so the complaint about this hadnt been 
brought in time.
However, this is less than 6 years from the point at which Mr J complained on 14 August 
2021. Therefore I agree with our investigator that this service can consider this part of the 
complaint.
Mr J felt that CJFP had been fully aware of his health issues from 2015. He acknowledged 
that it was often unwise to transfer OPS benefits. And that such transfers were inherently 
risky. But felt that as CJFP had become aware that Mr Js health was deteriorating  and 
particularly in light of his cancer diagnosis  it shouldve considered advising Mr J on his 
OPS benefit in 2020. 
Mr J felt that CJFP shouldve considered a transfer of his OPS benefits to a private pension 
given his serious ill health, the fact that he had no partner, and his desire to leave an 
inheritance to his children.
CJFP felt that it had fairly considered and dismissed a transfer of Mr Js OPS in 2015. It said 
it wasnt made aware that Mr J was seriously ill with a life-threatening condition until June 
2020. 
From what Ive seen, Mr J didnt tell CJFP about his cancer diagnosis until 2020. At that 
point, although itd been aware that Mr J had health issues, Ive seen no evidence that Mr J had previously told CJFP that he had health issues which were life-threatening. So, as I 
noted before, I consider that it wasnt until June 2020 that CJFP became aware that Mr J 
had a life-threatening illness.  
I also noted earlier in my decision why I considered it was reasonable that CJFP didnt 
conduct an annual review in 2019, 2020 or 2021. Therefore, as Mr J didnt contact CJFP to 
arrange a review after hed told them about his life-threatening condition, I dont agree that it 
should have considered a transfer of Mr Js OPS benefits in 2020. I say this because it 
wasnt able to do so, as Mr J didnt engage with it at that time. So I dont uphold this part of 
the complaint. 
I next considered Mr Js complaint that CJFP had unfairly required some form of Power of 
Attorney to be in place before it would discuss his situation with his representative. 
Did CJFP fairly deal with Mr Js representative?
Mr J said hed been inconvenienced because CJFP had refused to provide him with 
information on four separate occasions. He said this contributed to his anxiety and stress 
whilst he was seriously ill. 
Mr J said hed asked CJFP for information it held on file on five occasions between 23 July 
2021 and 3 August 2021. But that it had refused to provide the information until the fifth 
occasion. He said these requests had been from a properly authorised third-party with Mr Js 
authority. He also said that CJFP had made preposterous demands on Mr J about who 
should be his Attorney in the event of his mental Incapacity, despite the fact that Mr J was of 
sound mind. And that itd questioned the validity of the authority provided. 
CJFP said that - apart from a letter dated 29 July 2021 which had been signed by Mr J, but 
drafted by his representative - it hadnt had any correspondence with Mr J between 23 July 
2021 and 16 August 2021 when it received the complaint. 
It said that Mr Js representative had initially told it that Mr J was seeking to appoint him to 
help him with his financial affairs. And that Mr J had asked his representative to organise his 
financial affairs, and to deal with them from now on.
CJFP said that Mr Js representative had made threats to its adviser that unless he accepted 
that he had Mr Js authority he would bring the matter to this service. It said that he had 
subsequently clarified that Mr J had specifically asked him to deal with the advice CJFP had 
given him, and nothing else.
CJFP said its adviser had never previously been informed of Mr Js representatives 
involvement with Mr Js affairs. And his name wasnt known to him. So it said its adviser had 
sought to clarify the position about the letter of authority that had been received from an 
unknown source. This had led to the suggestion of a Power of Attorney.
It said that it would generally call its client to discuss any third-party request for information. 
But Mr Js representative had told it that Mr J wasnt well enough to discuss the matter. It 
said that its adviser then proceeded with caution, despite Mr Js representatives obvious 
anger and frustration, as he wanted to ensure no breaches were made under the terms of 
the Data Protection Act.
CJFP also said that its usual to allow up to 30 days for a subject access request. It felt that 
Mr Js representative had applied unnecessary pressure and threats on its adviser to try to 
force the early release of the requested information.It also said that Mr Js representative had subsequently reluctantly agreed with its advisers 
suggestion that some form of Power of Attorney might be appropriate. It said this had now 
been provided.
Ive carefully considered what both parties have told this service. Based on the information 
available to me, Im satisfied that CJFP acted reasonably in trying to ensure that it didnt 
breach the Data Protection Act. I also dont consider that it acted unreasonably when it 
suggested a Power of Attorney might be needed. I say this because in the end, Mr Js 
representative arranged for one. Overall, Ive seen no evidence that CJFP did anything 
wrong. So I dont uphold this part of the complaint.  
From what Ive seen, CJFP acted professionally and competently throughout its relationship 
with Mr J. So I dont agree with Mr J that its standards of professionalism and competence 
fell short of the requirements for a regulated financial adviser. Or that it gave him bad advice 
and poor service.
Overall, Ive found no evidence to uphold any of the complaint points, so I cant uphold the 
complaint. As Ive not found that CJFP did anything wrong, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable 
for me to ask it to consider paying Mr J compensation for the distress and inconvenience he 
said both he and his representative had suffered.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman