DRN-3096064
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) refused to change his 
fee-free FlexDirect account to an alternative account, when he asked it to.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that Nationwide had 
done anything wrong. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions, so the matter was 
referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything that has been provided, I dont uphold this complaint. I will 
explain why.
I think it might help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, as is 
the case here, I need to decide what I think was most likely to have happened, based on 
everything that is available.
Mr B has explained that he changed his account to a fee-free FlexDirect account. However, 
Mr B says he noticed that the amount he was being charged to use his overdraft was 
significantly higher than when he held his previous account. Mr B says that he went to a 
Nationwide branch - within 14 days of changing his account - and asked to change his 
account back to what it was previously. However, Mr B says that he was told that he was 
unable to change his account, as hed already signed the paperwork. In response, 
Nationwide says that it has no evidence that this happened. It also says it does not believe 
this wouldve happened as the FlexDirect account could be changed at any point.
I should say at this point that for me to find in favour of Mr B, I have to be satisfied that what 
he says was more likely than not to have happened. But based on what I have seen, I am 
unable to say that is the case here.
Nationwide has provided a copy of its customer notes. Having looked through them, there is 
no indication that Mr B had directly asked for his account to be changed. The notes also 
dont indicate that Mr B had explained that hed had difficulties changing the type of account 
he held either.
I note that in his conversation (about this complaint) with Nationwide, Mr B explained that 
hed previously held a FlexDirect account in the past. As Mr B had previously been able to 
remove the FlexDirect package from his account before, that makes me think that Mr B was 
aware he did not have to keep it, if he was unhappy with it. And, with the above in mind, had 
Mr B been told that he couldnt remove the FlexDirect package from his account (that hed 
previously been able to remove), I wouldve expected him to have complained to Nationwide 
(or taken some other action) about this much sooner  rather than wait a number of years 
before pursuing the matter.
Finally, Mr Bs representative says that they have proof that Mr B did make several 
complaints and was told by a member of staff that Nationwide could offer him £100. 
However, from what I can see, the documents provided by the representative all relate to Mr 
Bs current complaint, which was raised in 2021. And none of the documents show that Mr B 
was offered £100 either. The only document which refers to an offer is a copy of the final 
response letter, in which Nationwide offered Mr B £25 because his complaint was not logged 
when he first raised it in branch.
As such, taking everything into account, Ive not seen enough evidence to be able to say that 
its more likely than not that Nationwide unfairly prevented Mr B from changing the type of 
account that he held. Or that Nationwide did anything in relation to this matter that merits 
further compensation.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman