DRN-3354586
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Retail Money Market Ltd trading as RateSetter caused a delay in her 
receiving her money following a withdrawal request. 
What happened
Mrs K made a withdrawal request from her loan-based (peer-to-peer) crowdfunding account 
with RateSetter on 4 April 2021. Mrs K expected to receive the money into her nominated 
bank account by 6 April 2021 but as she hadnt received it, she raised a complaint with 
RateSetter on 7 April 2021. Mrs K received the money on 8 April 2021.
RateSetter said it provided updates to Mrs K explaining the delay was due to a technical 
processing issue outside of its control and apologised for any distress and inconvenience it 
caused. 
Mrs K was unhappy with RateSetters response and so referred her complaint to this Service 
for an independent review. Since doing so, RateSetter contacted Mrs K directly to make her 
an offer. It said it would pay her 8% simple interest on the withdrawal amount for the two 
days she was deprived of the money. Mrs K didnt accept this offer. She said she had plans 
for the money and the situation was time sensitive. She also felt she should be compensated 
for the distress and inconvenience RateSetter has caused her. 
An investigator looked into Mrs Ks complaint but didnt uphold. Whilst she felt RateSetter 
were at fault for the delay, she thought the offer it had made was fair and reasonable. She 
said RateSetter had explained that its payment processing provider had caused the delay 
due to it incorrectly placing a limit on its withdrawals. The investigator felt that RateSetter 
was responsible for its chosen payment processing provider and it had a duty to ensure the 
funds were made available when it said it would. However, she said the offer was fair as it 
put Mrs K back in the position she would have been in had her withdrawal request not been 
delayed. She didnt think compensation for distress and inconvenience was warranted as 
RateSetter made her aware of the delay straightaway and reassured her that the error would 
be rectified shortly.
 
Mrs K didnt accept the investigators findings. She said she had to take time out of her daily 
work activities to chase RateSetter to find out why her money had not arrived, and she 
suffered anxiety and stress as a result. So she feels she should be compensated for this. 
As Mrs K didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. Ill 
explain why.
As RateSetter has made an offer in recognition of the delay caused, my decision will focus 
solely on whether that offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ks complaint. 
Where a mistake has been made, we expect a business to try and put a consumer back in 
the position they would have been in had nothing gone wrong. In Mrs Ks case that would be 
to put her back in the position she would have been in if shed received the money on 6 April 
2021 instead of 8 April 2021. Mrs K says she had plans for the money but has not explained 
what the intended use was and so its difficult to ascertain whether there has been a direct 
financial loss because of the delay. I have, however, considered that she has been deprived 
of the enjoyment or use of the money but Im unable to ascertain what she would have done 
with it had she had it sooner. As such, I consider the most appropriate compensation to be 
that which RateSetter has offered  applying 8% simple interest on the amount withdrawn 
over the two days she was deprived of the money. This Service uses 8% simple interest per 
year as a fair reflection of a range of possibilities a consumer may have used the money for, 
and its also the current statutory interest rate on judgment debts.
I understand Mrs K also believes she should be entitled to compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the delay. Whilst I accept that Mrs K did have to contact 
RateSetter to find out why she hadnt received the money when she expected it, Im aware 
that RateSetter explained the reason for the delay and so she was aware that RateSetter 
was rectifying the issue as a priority. Considering the issue was sorted within a couple of 
days, she was kept updated throughout and the impact was minimal, I think RateSetters 
apology is enough to remedy any distress and inconvenience caused by the mistake. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman