DRN-3678542
The complaint
Mr As complained that Europ Assistance SA, trading as Europ Assistance SA Irish Branch 
(EA) unfairly declined his cancellation claim when he couldnt travel because his travel 
documentation was stolen on his way to the airport.
What happened
In early 2022, Mr A booked an overseas trip.  At the same time as buying his flights, he 
purchased cancellation insurance from EA.
Mr As bag was stolen when he was on the way to the airport.  It contained his passport, so 
he couldnt travel.  So Mr A made a claim on his EA policy, as he had to cancel his trip.  EA 
declined his claim, on the basis that Mr A wasnt covered for cancellation as a result of not 
having documentation essential for his trip.
Mr A wasnt satisfied with the conclusions EA drew and brought a complaint to our service.  
Our investigator considered it and concluded EA didnt need to do anything more to resolve 
it.  He said the policy only covered cancellation until Mr A had left his home to travel to the 
airport.  As the claim arose from an incident that happened after this time, it wasnt covered 
under the terms of the policy.
Mr A didnt agree with our investigator and said that travel didnt include his commute to the 
airport.  So Ive now been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.  Ill explain why.
I can see the policy Mr A bought only covered cancellation.  So Ill only be considering that  
not any claim for what Mr A lost in the bag.
Ive considered the policy terms.  Mr A bought a single trip policy.  So the relevant term says:
Cancellation cover begins from the issue date shown on Your policy schedule and ends at 
the beginning of Your Travel. The cover for all other sections starts at the beginning of Your 
Travel and finishes at the end of Your Travel.
And Travel is defined as:
A trip that takes place during the Period of insurance which begins when You leave 
home.
Its clear from reading those terms together that Mr As trip started when he left his home  
not when he reached the airport.  And its equally thats when his clear cancellation cover 
ended.  So I agree with our investigator he wasnt covered by the time he lost the bag 
containing the items, without which he couldnt travel.  
I have considered Mr As comments.  But they havent persuaded me that interpretation is 
wrong.  Mr A has said that the first clause quoted above differentiates between his travel and 
his commute.  
I dont agree, because I think the definition of travel clearly states it includes the journey from 
home to the airport.  So I dont think EA acted unfairly when they declined his claim.  Nor do 
I think they need to do any more to resolve Mr As complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint about Europ Assistance 
SA, trading as Europ Assistance SA Irish Branch.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman