DRN-3827189
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Inspirational Financial Management (IFM) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British 
Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable 
for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ms employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed 
they could transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ms employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In August 2017, the DB scheme administrators sent Mr M information about his entitlement 
under one section of his current DB scheme which showed a cash equivalent transfer value 
(CETV) of £273,932.21. Further information was sent to Mr M in September 2017 about his 
entitlement under a second section of his current DB scheme which showed a further CETV 
of £213,687.88. Mr M had a total of 38 years and 5 months of pensionable service in the DB 
scheme.
Mr M wasnt sure what to do about his DB pension so he contacted IFM. A meeting took 
place between Mr M and IFM on 25 September 2017 during which a fact-find was completed 
to gather information about Mr Ms circumstances and objectives. It was noted on the fact-
find that Mr M was aged 54, his wife was aged 45 and they had one dependent child aged 
10. It was also noted that Mr M earned £40,000 per year and his wife earned £30,000 a year 
and was a member of her employers occupational pension scheme. It was further noted that 
Mr and Mrs M owned their own home on which they had an outstanding mortgage (the 
outstanding amount and the remaining term were undocumented). Finally, IFM documented 
that Mr M was now a member of his employers defined contribution pension scheme to 
which he contributed 6% of his salary a year and his employer 10%. No savings, 
investments or assets (aside from their home) were held. IFM also assessed that Mr M had 
a low attitude to risk (ATR). 
Also on 25 September 2017, IFM provided Mr M with its suitability report in which it 
recommended that he transfer his BSPS DB pension benefits to a personal pension plan. 
Mr Ms objectives for transferring were documented over both the fact-find and the suitability 
report. These were that he wanted to retire early at age 55 with a net monthly income of 
£1,500 and tax-free cash (TFC) of £80,000 to clear his mortgage. Also Mr M said he had 
concerns about joining the PPF and the BSPS2 and he preferred to have flexibility and 
control over his pension benefits. Mr M also said he had concerns about the security of his 
pension and that he wanted to ensure his pension didnt die with him.
Mr M signed the transfer discharge forms on 25 September 2017,
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them three options; to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr M received a letter dated 13 December 2017 from the provider of his personal pension 
informing him that his personal pension had been set up with a start date of 11 December 
2017 following receipt of his total CETV of £496,552.98. 
Mr M retired from work at age 55 and took TFC from his personal pension to repay his 
mortgage with further funds being taken from the plan to provide him with an income. 
On 3 February 2022 Mr M, through his representative, complained to IFM. He said the 
advice hed received to transfer his DB scheme had been unsuitable and that he had 
suffered a loss as a result. 
IFM looked into Mr Ms complaint but didnt think it had done anything wrong. In its final 
response letter dated 5 May 2022, IFM said that Mr M had wanted the flexibility to retire 
earlier than the DB schemes normal retirement age (of 65) and that having the freedom to 
control his own pension fund outweighed any guaranteed future pension. IFM also said the 
flexibility Mr M gained, along with the ability to leave his dependents a lump sum benefit in 
the event of his death, and the avoidance of his benefits falling into the PPF (with the 
ensuing loss of any ability to transfer at a later date) were all key motivators for Mr M in 
deciding to transfer his pension to a personal arrangement. 
Unhappy with the outcome of his complaint to IFM, Mr M complained to this service. Our 
Investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint and recommended that it was upheld. In short, our 
Investigator said he didnt think that IFMs advice was suitable or in Mr Ms best interests. 
Given his early retirement, our Investigator thought that IFM should have advised Mr M to 
opt into the PPF so he recommended that IFM should establish whether Mr M had suffered a 
loss as a result of its advice to transfer. The Investigator also recommended that IFM should 
pay Mr M £300 to address the distress and inconvenience caused by the receipt of 
unsuitable advice. 
IFM didnt respond to our Investigators findings. Because the complaint was unable to 
resolved informally it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of IFMs actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, IFM should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ms 
best interests. 
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
Since 1994 it has been a regulatory requirement that a business advising a consumer 
about a DB scheme transfer must provide the consumer with a transfer value analysis 
report (TVAS). The TVAS provides the consumer with the annual investment return 
(also known as the critical yield) their transferred fund needs to achieve in order to 
match, at retirement, the DB scheme benefits they are giving up. This information is vital 
if the consumer is to understand whether it is in their best interests to give up the 
guarantees associated with their DB pension simply to achieve, at best, equivalent 
benefits at retirement. Here however, IFM didnt provide Mr M with this crucial 
information, in so doing, failing to pay due regard to Mr Ms information needs so that he 
could make a fully informed decision. 
The suitability report IFM provided to Mr M refers in a general way to the TVAS but goes 
on to dismiss its relevance on the grounds that Mr M wanted to take advantage of the 
pensions freedoms available to him rather than purchase an annuity. In the suitability 
report IFM states that the annual investment returns required to match at age 65 the 
BSPS benefits Mr M was giving up were typically about 8% a year (and had IFM 
produced a TVAS, the critical yield for retirement at age 55 was likely to be significantly 
higher than typically 8%). Further, IFM also said that, based on the then current 
investment landscape, achieving a return of 8% was probably unrealistic. So as a low-
risk investor, Mr M would have needed to take investment risks in excess of those he 
was comfortable with just to match his DB scheme benefits
And given the discount rate of 3.8% for 10 years to retirement (2.3% for 0 years to 
retirement) and the regulators lower projection rate of 2%, I think Mr M was always likely 
to receive pension benefits from age 65 (and age 55) of a lower value than those hed 
have been entitled to under the BSPS2 or the PPF by transferring and investing in line 
with his attitude to risk. It clearly wasnt in Mr Ms best interests to give up the guarantees associated with his DB pension simply to achieve, at best, equivalent benefits at 
retirement. But here I think he was likely to be substantially worse off by transferring. It 
follows that I dont consider the transfer to be a financially viable one. 
IFM produced an income in retirement graph within the suitability report. The chart 
shows that by taking tax-free cash at age 55 and drawing down an income of £1,500 a 
month from his transferred pension thereafter Mr Ms fund will run out by the time he is 
aged 89. With no other savings, investments or pension assets (aside from his state 
pension) the chart shows that Mr M could be left with a significant income shortfall in the 
latter years of his retirement. Ive seen no evidence that this was addressed by IFM 
when it was advising Mr M. Nor can I see that there was any analysis of Mrs Ms pension 
benefits and how they may contribute to both her and Mr Ms retirement income needs. 
By the point IFM was advising Mr M it was a known fact that continuing in BSPS in its 
existing form wasnt an option, yet IFM based its minimal analysis on a scheme that 
wasnt set to continue. And whilst the suitability report outlines some of the potential risks 
associated with transferring, doing so does not make an unsuitable recommendation 
suitable. Transparency is not the same as suitability.
IFM has justified the transfer by saying that  financial viability aside  there were other 
compelling reasons for doing it. One of the reasons was that it allowed Mr M to retire 
early, access his funds flexibly and repay his mortgage of £80,000. But Mr M didnt need 
to give up the guaranteed benefits of his DB scheme in order to achieve those things. 
Part of IFMs role was to provide Mr M with full information about his early retirement 
entitlements under the alternative BSPS2 and PPF schemes so that he could make a 
fully informed decision. But IFM didnt do so. 
The topic of early retirement was clearly discussed at the time of the advice and IFM 
says this was a stated objective of Mr Ms. Mr M has since said early retirement was 
presented to him as benefit of the transfer. Hes also said he didnt need to retire early at 
age 55 and repay his mortgage but acted on the opportunity as presented to him. Mr M 
says that now hes concerned that he was given the impression by IFM that early 
retirement was financially viable to him.
Both the BSPS2 and the PPF would have allowed Mr M to take early retirement although 
his benefits under those schemes would have been subject to actuarial reductions to 
reflect the fact that the pension would need to sustain him over a longer period. 
Unfortunately there's no evidence IFM made this clear to Mr M. Nor did it give him details 
of his entitlements from these two schemes if he took early retirement (either with or 
without also taking tax-free cash) nor what critical yields needed to be attained by 
transferring in order to match their benefits. Thus Mr M had no means of comparing 
whether transferring his DB scheme to a personal pension compared favourably or not 
with moving to the BSPS2 or PPF either for retirement at age 55 or at age 65.
IFM failed to have regard to Mr Ms information needs or to communicate information to 
him in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading. IFM stated in the suitability report 
that it was unlikely that Mr M would have the option to take benefits from the PPF at age 
55  but this was not the case. Mr M could have taken benefits from the PPF at age 55 
had he so wished. And the early retirement factors for both income and for tax-free cash 
entitlement under the PPF were more favourable than the BSPS2 and IFM should have 
explained this to Mr M. 
And if early retirement was a genuine goal for Mr M, it wasnt IFMs role just to put in 
place what Mr M mightve thought he wanted. Its role was to fully interrogate his objectives and to advise him on what was in his best interests. But there was a lack of 
detailed analysis and examination about Mr Ms circumstances, future plans and 
retirement needs such that IFM could conclude that the transfer was clearly in Mr Ms 
best interests. 
IFM assessed Mr M as being able to accept the risk of the transfer because of the size of 
his CETV and the potential investment timescale. But I think Mr M had little capacity for 
loss  this was his main pension  so I dont think he could really tolerate the risk of 
transferring his DB pension. Further, in transferring his DB scheme, all of Mr Ms pension 
provision was then subject to investment risk whereas by moving to the BSPS2 or PPF, 
Mr Ms benefits would escalate annually.
Mr Ms desire for control over his pension was overstated, he was an inexperienced 
investor and I cant see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage 
his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr M 
 it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Mr M may have legitimately held concerns about his employer and the PPF, but it was 
IFMs role to objectively address those concerns. At the time of the advice, all signs 
pointed toward the BSPS2 being established. But even if not, the PPF still provided Mr M 
with guaranteed income and tax-free cash, and as he retired early, the benefits available 
to him may have exceeded those under the BSPS2. Mr M could still have achieved his 
retirement objectives even if his DB scheme moved to the PPF. 
The difference in death benefits from a personal pension werent worth giving up the 
safeguarded benefits offered by the DB scheme for nor was it in Mr Ms best interests to 
do so. 
On the fact-find Mr M ticked the box that said he only wished to increase death benefits 
if this does not reduce my own potential retirement benefits. So it seems to me that lump 
sum death benefits werent a priority for Mr M and definitely not at the expense of his 
retirement benefits. And given that the transfer wasnt financially viable a reduction in Mr 
Ms retirement benefits was almost certain to ensue but IFM proceeded to advise Mr M 
to transfer regardless. 
Ultimately IFM should not have encouraged Mr M to prioritise the potential for alternative 
death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement. IFM was 
tasked with advising Mr M about what was best for his retirement and its clear that Mr M 
told IFM that he wasnt prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for 
higher death benefits. The death benefits of both the BSPS2 and PPF were underplayed. 
Both offered a spouses pension which was guaranteed and escalated and which could 
have been valuable to Mr Ms family in the event of his death. The death benefits offered 
by the personal pension however, were dependent on investment performance and, as 
the income in retirement graph shows, there may not have been a large sum left 
particularly if Mr M lived a long life.
The process of initial information gathering via the fact-find, the formal recommendation 
to transfer contained in the suitability report and the signing of the transfer forms all took 
place on the same day  25 September 2017. Its reasonable to think that this indicates a 
pre-conceived notion on the part of IFM that a transfer was in Mr Ms best interests as 
opposed to analysing the information obtained in full before determining the most 
appropriate advice and recommendation. Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ms best interests to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. And I also havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Mr M wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB 
scheme. So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr M received from B was 
unsuitable for him.
I also agree with our Investigator that learning that he might have put his security in 
retirement at risk unnecessarily would have been a source of distress and inconvenience for 
Mr M. To address that I think its fair that IFM pays him £300 compensation.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would 
most likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and moved with it to the PPF 
if suitable advice had been given. 
IFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
IFM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr M and our Service upon completion of 
the calculation together with supporting evidence of what Mr M based the inputs into the 
calculator on.
For clarity, Mr M retired at age 55. So, compensation should be based on him taking benefits 
at this age.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ms 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, IFM should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts IFMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, IFM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
IFM should also pay Mr M £300 for the trouble and upset its unsuitable advice has caused 
him.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr M the balance.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman